ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] Before we begin the agenda, I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to announce a set of initiatives that have entered the Bureau and were admitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I will announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Law Proposals No. 83 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), 84 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) and 85 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ). They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Law Projects No. 782/XIV/2. a ( PSD ), 783 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 784 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 785 / XIV / 2. a ( IL), 786 / XIV / 2. a ( IL), 787 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 788 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 789 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 790 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 791 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 792 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 793 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 794 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and 795 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ). They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects No. 1186 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 1188 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), 1189 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 1190 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 1191 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 1192 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 1193 / XIV / 2. a ( IL), 1194 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 1195 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) and 1196 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ). I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Let us then start the agenda, the first of which is to examine the report on the implementation of the State of Emergency Declaration from 2 to 16 March 2021. In the meantime, I would like to inform the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we already have quorum to proceed to all votes. The floor is Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Report on the Implementation of the Declaration of the State of Emergency between 2 and 16 March is another exercise of transparency and subjection to the democratic scrutiny of the Government by the Assembly of the Republic, which has authorised and determined the application of the state of emergency since November and, in particular, in this period. It's, in fact, the 12th. the report discussed in plenary and since March last year 19. the report submitted by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic, with immense documentation not only of the governmental areas but of structures in the area of internal security and health, which are involved in coordinating the implementation of the state of emergency. This is a period which proves that the Assembly of the Republic, the President of the Republic and the Government were certain in the application of this type of measures and in the way they were implemented, because during this fortnight there were two results which created resilience to pursue this path: we had a reduction of about half of the number of cases, about one third of the number of deaths, less than half of the number of interns and less than half of the number of interns in intensive care units, compared to early March; and we had a reduction of 65 000 to 35 000 of the number of active cases in just two weeks. In fact, it was the verification of this result that allowed us, in the debate that we then made about the next stage of the implementation of the state of emergency, to discuss how to initiate a plan to reopen Portuguese society. It was under the lessons and encouraging results of this period that it was possible for the Government — and we are talking about the period from 2 to 16 March — to adopt a plan for the overall reopening of Portuguese society, known to all, which has been applied since 15 March, in a 15-year logic, and which goes until 3 May. It was also during this period that vaccination entered a massive phase, particularly in relation to the elderly over 80 years of age, and that the conditions for reopening schools were defined. Give space for the National Health Service ( SNS ) to respond to other diseases as well as to give confidence to economic agents for recovery — this is the way that has proved to us during this fortnight that the Portuguese have actively contributed to this outcome and that the sovereignty agencies were right in the decisions made. It is this path that enlightens us, with a sense of stoicism and national cohesion, and which makes us want to continue to consolidate these results and not waste anything. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u5	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister presents himself today in this Chamber saying that this report is an exercise of transparency, or an exercise of fantasy, if we want to take in his words: "The results of this period show that the government was right". In addition, he presented us with the figures on the reduction of admissions and the rate of transmissibility, etc. What this report does not present is the number of failures in the same country and in the same period; the number of unemployed, which increased by almost a quarter; the number of people who had to seek income in the social income of inclusion and unemployment. That is what this report does not present and what it should present. Moreover, the Minister of Internal Administration introduced himself in this Chamber saying that at this time the Government finally succeeded in presenting its plan for the reopening of society, when we all know that the President of the Republic had to demand three times a plan of defination from the Government, without any margin from the Socialist Government ; when we all know that what was planned for March was to have nearly half the vaccinated population and what we have got far enough of that which had been defined by Antonio Costa ; when we all know that one of the vaccines, that of AstraZeneca, had already been pointed out in various international reports as a cause of problems to the civilian population and, above all, to the elderly, and that the Government, without doing anything at all, has left itself to be harmed, some of them irreversible, to public health. This is the result of your state of emergency, it is the result of your exercise of transparency and it is the result of your exercise of command of a country that, in an emergency, needed another government and another minister to command.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u7	Mrs Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Sends the law that the Government shall bring to the Assembly of the Republic the Report on the Implementation of the Declaration of the State of Emergency. The doubt that we find ourselves, when we read more about this version, is whether the Government is truly aware of the turbulence in which the lives of the Portuguese people have been transformed or whether, on the contrary, only works in the « stability of the regulatory framework for combating the pandemic », which we are talking about today's report. And here are three examples. We continue to have no reference in these reports to support for mental health, either in the health point or in the education point, where we would expect this report to be more specific. We can read the following in the report: « They continued the television broadcasts of #StudyEmCasa, either of the contents of basic education or of secondary education ». I recall that we are in the « stability of the regulatory framework ». It is even mentioned that a webinar took place on 11 March, addressing the theme « Mental health and quality of life in digital education environment ». Another pretty stable panacea. But, in the face of the evidence of pandemic fatigue, in the face of the problems with hundreds of thousands of young people who are and have been confined for months, it does not tell us whether the number of psychologists in schools has been strengthened, if it was necessary to make a more direct intervention, if there are mental health prevention programs for children and young people. With regard to public transport, the stability of the regulatory framework leads the Government to state that « public transport supply continues to respond adequately to people's mobility needs ». Now, this is a subject that The Greens are asking that it be examined, because it is not enough to shoot with the numbers of Lisbon and Porto — and even they do not fit with the crowded carriages at peak time, because there are many locations in which the only guarantee of public transport is the school in presence. And, once again, we have a 'raised ass fish in the mouth' : if there is no offer, there will be no search and, if so, the argument of lack of demand will always be present. A third example: the numbers of domestic violence should also be included in this report, because the mandatory stay at home, for more hours, of victims and aggressors, at a time of saturation, when it is more difficult to ask for help and get out of this spiral of fear, brought problems that clearly come out of normative stability. And it is even more difficult for the elderly who suffer from silent domestic violence, imprisoned in their own homes, because they are a population more vulnerable to the disease. The problem, Minister, is that there are only three examples of the many that we could give. Regulatory stability means instability in the lives of many Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u9	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: The reporting period points to a declining trend of new cases, with the exception of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, although we know today that there is already an reversal of this trend, according to the recent meeting of Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority ). At the fortnight in question, the average R (t) was well below current values in order of 1, 05 %. When analyzed the cases of infection reported in this period, it is found that the majority were female and under 50 years of age. This has been a constant in recent reports, for which we have already warned that possible causes are identified and, consequently, thought to be more effective action measures to be taken. And, speaking in the case of women, we must also point out that this report is in line with the report submitted by UNFPA ( the United Nations Population Fund ) on violence against women, because domestic violence, as Mr Deputies have just mentioned, is undoubtedly a scourge which is again not mentioned in the lines of the report. It was crucial to realize how much this crisis — of the COVID-19 and socio-economic — is affecting this dimension. With regard to the data contained in the report and the age groups that are reached, we cannot fail to point out that, today, cases of infection in the age range 0 to 9 years already reach a total of about 45,000, a much higher value than has been recorded in these ages, which, in our view, is also quite worrying, moreover, even more worrying in a period when the return to day care and the presence of pre-school and 1 education was prepared. the cycle of basic education. Despite alerts to the importance of testing, there was still a total lack of prior testing, particularly of education professionals, testing, this, which came to take place only during the course of the educational activities, not before. In fact, the activity of the National Early Intervention System in Children continued to be developed, but it was once again to mirror the system's operating weaknesses in, for example, sufficient human resources to provide a useful and timely response to all children. The data available to us at this time from this health crisis also make the problems of responding to the reception of children and young people visible. In addition to human resources parks, professionals in this area have discussed themselves with low wages, high emotional wear and great turnover. But neither young people nor professionals received any kind of support, including mental health. We know that, in order to respond to these worrying gaps, some human resources have been contracted. However, these resources are based, above all, not on hiring professionals, but again on volunteering, which does not, at all, contribute to the specific and specialized needs of this type of response to the population, nor with that which, in our view, should be the deepest investment to be made in this area. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this absolutely unpublished context in our time, which has forced us on two confines and on the adoption of a set of highly restrictive measures of rights, freedoms and guarantees, let us not forget that public health can never be understood as just an intra-national issue or as a minor issue and that it is essential that, in this defination, we know how to give more effective and robust answers, so that we do not make the mistakes of the past and not go back to the zero stake, from which we started.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u11	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed today the report of one month, from 2 to 16 March, as Mr Minister of Internal Administration said, at the opening of the debate, at the time the country was still in confinement, and the numbers which have been reflected in it, precisely allowed, on 11 March, to present the plan of defination to stocks, as it was called. We had already said before, but it applies, for the most part, to the period under review, that this would be the right time to prepare the defination. And if we look at some of the variables, they leave us matter of concern with what we see in the present, of course, as to the ability to test. Between 2 and 14 March, the report says that on average around 23 000 tests were carried out each day. The test was decreasing since the end of January and, of course, the fact that we are in confinement explains part of this reduction. The problem is that today, almost a month after the defination, and with a more comprehensive DGS standard ( Directorate-General for Health ) from the point of view of testing, we are still sensitive to the same number of PCR tests ( polymerase chain reaction), i.e. 23 000 daily tests. This seems to us to be a worrying fact. Of course, now we have the mass tests, the antigen tests, which have spot peaks of 30,000 tests per day, but we also know that it is an artificial test, although necessary, in the sense that it does not meet a clinical criterion, it is a variation. And we also have self-application tests, which have already been the subject of great discussion between me and the Minister of Health, in the Health Committee, which were approved in exactly this period on 10 March. We know that 100 000 of these tests have already been distributed for sale and there were 114 positive reports, but this tells us very little. We do not know how to qualify this information, because we do not know exactly how many have been sold, how many have been applied, and where is the promised platform, which would be on the DGS website, to do exactly that verification. We have now, as has already been said here—and it emerged yesterday at the Infarmed meeting as a fact—a growth in the number of cases of infection in age groups between 0 and 9 years old, but in schools we continue to test only adults and, for the week, we will test secondary students, but antigen tests in variation, according to DGS standard, do not cover students in the same way. If we have, in defination, the same PCR tests that we had in confinement, I wonder if it will not make sense to review the test strategy, as a form of a safe defination. A final word for support for the economy, particularly in the culture sector. Between 2 and 14 March it had spent about a month of the announcement, by the Minister of Culture and the Minister of the Economy, of the Guarantee Culture Support Programme. The fact is that it was necessary to wait another month, after the end of this report, for access to Guarantee Culture to be open. When we evaluate emergency states, we also find that the emergency, taken to the letter, in this type of support leaves much to be desired.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u13	You now have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mr Antonio Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This is, as Mr Minister of Internal Administration said recently, 19. the period of emergency which is the subject of the report and, of course, of the report, it is difficult to find itself great news to bring to the debate, not to try to make a point of the situation regarding the reporting period and, in a way, to the period we are going through. We will discuss next, with regard to the renewal of the state of emergency authorization, what is expected for the near future. Now, let's balance what we went through. In this regard, it should be noted that, of course, we are at a much less distressing stage than we have lived recently, in which we reach a high number of fatal and infected victims, with unprecedented pressure on the National Health Service. Fortunately, this situation is now overcome and we are now at a time when, when we have made a great recovery from the worst situation we have experienced, we have experienced a period of some stabilization, but also difficult, in which, despite everything, we continue to register, on a daily basis, fatal victims and a few hundred cases, with difficulty moving to a phase of greater recovery and allowing greater confidence in the near future. It should be noted that what is fundamental, at present, is to intensify a great test effort, consolidate the capacity of the National Health Service to reconcile the requirements arising from the response to the epidemic with the recovery of the other valences and not to respond to the support that they need. The consequences on the Portuguese economy, on the family economies of hundreds of thousands of people, in this country, have been and are being dramatic, so they do not understand the government's reluctance to support those who lack support, especially when this occurs in an extremely fragile Portuguese society, still based, above all, on low wages, as a report still very recently showed to satiety. But there is one point to be mentioned, which is the following: we are now witnessing, with some disbelief, a war between the pharmaceutical giants on the credibility of vaccines. This is a very serious problem, with regard to people's confidence in an essential issue, which is vaccination, indeed, essential for overcoming this pandemic. The situation we are witnessing, in which pharmaceutical giants are diglazing, using their lobbies in the media to negrate competition vaccines, is causing irreparable damage to the credibility of vaccination on a planetary scale. The European Union ( EU ) is proving to be a huge failure in its strategy for the acquisition of vaccines and Portugal, by leaving itself entirely in the hands of the European Union, it is allowing itself to be dragged...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u15	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u16	I will finish, Mr. President. As Portugal said, by leaving itself entirely in the hands of the European Union, it is becoming a drag, and this has very serious consequences for which we have not yet seen the necessary response from the political power.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u17	Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the last few weeks and during the period referred to in this report, the Government has continued to "take a step" with regard to the pandemic and fundamental measures to combat the pandemic. I give three examples. We all know that for every day, poverty and inequality are deepening in this country, but the government has decided to open a public war. — to prevent the increase in social support to those who are losing everything with the pandemic. "Take a step" in the fight against pandemic is exactly this! But this is not only because of this refusal by the Government and the Socialist Party to increase social support, but after not having implemented the Budget in 2020, after having presented a bad budget for 2021, that everyone knew that they would not respond to the needs of the country in the full social, economic and health crisis, this is not only because of the fight against poverty and inequality, it is found in tests for example. Portugal is currently one of the least testing countries in the European Union, but perhaps to compensate, it is one of the countries in which the Government most announces that it will test the population massively. See: we have recently learned of some increases in incidence in some municipalities and we have heard the Prime Minister announce that, in view of this increase in incidence, perhaps, linked to activities such as civil construction, agriculture, etc. the government would carry out a massive test. The problem is that at the beginning of February, the Minister of Health had already announced that this massive test would be carried out, particularly in economic activities which had never stopped, in particular those two, agriculture and civil construction. The announcement did not, of course, take place and the new announcement was therefore necessary. Let's see if, from now on, it's coming true. But as far as vaccines are concerned, the government's'stepping' policy on the pandemic has been shown and felt a great deal. We have argued that it is necessary to increase the production and distribution of vaccines. The government has not defended the same thing. For example, at the last meeting of the World Trade Organisation, he joined countries that refused to lift patents, saying that lifting patents does not resolve the matter, because there is no capacity for world production. That's not true! That's not true! There was a block of 110 countries in the World Trade Organization that said that patents need to be lifted, to share technology, to have access to technology, and there are countries that can increase production, which can produce, and which, at the moment, cannot, because indeed, there are patents to block the sharing of information for a good that must be a common good. Portugal has aligned itself with the strategy of maintaining patents, maintaining secrecy about technology and thus strangling vaccine production.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u19	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u20	I shall finish with a question, Mr President, if I may, in 5 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u21	It has to be very fast, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u22	I will be very quick, Mr President. A source of the Italian Government said today there was an agreement between several countries of the European Union to stop using the AstraZeneca vaccine. Portugal is currently in the Presidency of the European Union and I therefore think it is important for the Minister of Health here in plenary to say whether there is this agreement and whether Portugal will stop using this and other vaccines. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u23	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Eduardo Teixeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The report on the implementation of the state of emergency in the first half of March is discussed today in this House, a document that is always important, because it contains very relevant information on measures to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, but also a very enlightening report, because everyone allows to compare the government's propaganda with the tragic reality of socialist policies. The test is, unfortunately, a clear example of this difference between the announced and the concrete one. In fact, last February, the Minister of Health assured the Government that it would carry out mass tests to combat this pandemic. But what we are looking at today is that in the first 15th of March, in fact, the average daily test was only 23 000, a number not only ironic, but also very short of the minimum test necessary to contain the transmission of COVID-19. In this regard, we consider it serious that the current defination process, which started last month, has not been based on a generalised testing programme, particularly in the school environment — in teachers and non-teachers — but also on all workers who care for the public in essential services, such as transport, public distributions, civil construction, supermarkets and many others who, for the common good, have to do their presential work, essential for Portugal not to stop completely. The test continues to be critical, for more in a context where the vaccination campaign of the population is not yet proceeding with the desired speed and in which the country is still far from reaching such necessary group immunity. After four months of starting vaccination, only 6 % of our population is immunized. Little, very little, for the necessary collective protection. Any decoupling process should be accompanied by an effective strengthening of testing and vaccination, but also by greater control of the virus's communicable index, not only internally as in terms of surveillance of our borders, land and sea, and at airports, due to the risk of importing new cases of the most dangerous variants of the disease. For the PSD, the serious public health problem we face cannot make us forget the brutal economic crisis in which the pandemic has plunged us. It is therefore important for the Government to strengthen also the social support and protection of our companies, which are truly fundamental to the recovery that our country needs so much. For the PSD, governing is to serve Portugal and not to navigate in « safa waters and with faiting winds », as our Prime Minister of the « flying cows » said. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u25	For an intervention, Mr. Miguel Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 13 months ago, the pandemic forced us to confine ourselves. We have already lost 16,923 lives and we have already had 828 000 cases, which means that practically one in 10 Portuguese has already had COVID. As in all pandemics, this one had vacancies that allowed us to definate to then force us to confine ourselves again. We cannot allow this defination to be a prequel to a new wave, to a new confinement. This is a responsibility of all of us. And we know it's a heavy responsibility, because we arrived this month of April tired. We all want to exchange meetings via Zoom for a glass on a floor or exchange the sofa for a walk, finally, we all want to hug our parents and grandparents again. If we started to de-definite these days it was thanks to everyone's commitment to comply with the health rules and to fight the virus. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore time to once again thank all Portuguese, health professionals, professionals of essential services. But the experience has already taught us that there is still a lot of road to walk and we are going to go on. And if the discovery of the vaccine gives us hope that the road can be shorter, we cannot now waste our effort by moving back and forth. We can't give reason to those who confuse freedom with freedom. We must enjoy freedom, knowing that, to each person we invite to a plan, we have opened up an ever-increasing network of contagio, which, ultimately, can reach those we love most and to whom we have not yet been vaccinated. So people need our responsibility and our protection. And it is not only the people we should ask for responsibility; in this House we must also honour the expression « political leaders». That means recognizing, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that confinement works, that the state of emergency saves lives, that the vaccine is safe, that the delay is throughout Europe — and it is up to us to say so that we do not suffer the tragedy of the pandemic the misfortune of ignorance or misinformation. Moreover, it implies taking responsibility for the 63 000 young people who have lost their jobs; for the students who need to recover learning; for the companies that are decapitalized, after a herculine effort to secure the economy and employment; for the most unprotected, which is important, as we have done, to continue to support; for all health, yes, Mrs Mariana Silva, on mental health, whose words have been strengthened in this State budget. This is a liability without a period of validity and must continue after the start of defination and until we recover income and jobs. This is a shared responsibility and that does not forget the great lesson of this pandemic: contrary to what Margaret Thatcher said, we live, yes, in society, our acts reflect on others, the problems of others are our problems, and therefore the solutions to this pandemic and all problems need to be the same solutions for everyone and for everyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u27	To close this point, you have the floor to Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido, who I take advantage of to greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first aspect I want to highlight is that it was the brutal effort made by all Portuguese, which allowed us, in this emergency period, whose report we are presenting today, to open the prospect of starting a strategy of defination. Regarding the period we analyzed today, it is worth stressing that it was possible for the cumulative number of confirmed cases of the disease to decrease; it was possible that the risk of transmission of the infection was at the end of the period in 0, 86 ; it was possible that the number of recovered hospitalizations and cases could have a significant decrease and that the number of recovered cases increased by 5 %; and it was also possible that the new confirmed variants would be maintained and that the rate of positiveity would fall to values in order of 2, 6 %. But more importantly than that, it was the fact that through these results, which is due to an effort, I repeat, of all Portuguese people, it has been possible to open the doors to a progressive defination strategy, which has settled in the maintenance of a set of public health measures, and today we are aware that we cannot abandon them, but that it is complemented by an expressive set of other means, from the point of view of the use of testing for the detection of SARS-CoV-2. It is not true that Portugal is in the last places in relation to the number of tests / 100 000 inhabitants. That's not true! That's not true! [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's not true! The graphics show him well. The speaker displayed a chart. How can we ask others to trust us if we tell lies? Oh, my God! That's not true! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u29	That's funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u30	Portugal decreased in the number of diagnostic tests for SARS-CoV-2, because the number of tests tends to follow the infection. We have sought to reverse this trend with a tracking strategy and, for those who are distracted, we have conducted tests on all teachers who have returned to teaching. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention because, I think, they have been distracted and, indeed, some have even asked what we have done with regard to tests in the school community. We did more: according to a Directorate-General of Health directive, we extended the tests to students and, when a suspicious case is identified, these tests are performed not only to the school community but also to the students. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have also extended social protection to these people indirectly to the extent that, when they are subject to prophylactic isolation, they are also protected. Isn't this social protection? Isn't that what they claim? Isn't that what you're asking for? I think so! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the best way to protect the economy. It is to ensure that people remain healthy and that they can return to their lives, because, I think, that is what everyone wants. We also know that today we benefit from new types of testing and therefore we open the market to self-tests, but above all we open our ability to vaccinate in mass and continue to implement a wide vaccination campaign—well more than 2 million people have already taken the first inoculation—that we must be able to develop and implement without, of course, suffering the impact of decisions that are technical and are taken by European agencies, in which we trust and respect. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what I want to stress today is that it is science that continues to govern the way we fight against this pandemic and believe that speaking truth is part of the most elementary science. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u31	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the second item on our agenda, which consists of the debate on the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency. To open the debate, Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all want this to be the last renewal of the state of emergency, so that we can regain the full realization of the exercise of our rights and freedoms. May April indeed smell April! We all aspire to a « April of yes », a « April of all », a « April of feasting »! On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organization declared that the crisis of COVID-19 is a pandemic. Thirteen months later, we continue to fight to overcome this virus and all its multiple physical, psychological and social sequelae. The pandemic crisis brought with it a tsunami of suffering, reached in particular the most vulnerable in all geography and deepened structural inequalities, as warned by the Global Risk Report 2020, of the World Economic Forum. We have seen violations of human rights and threats to freedoms and guarantees as a result of growing populist and authoritarian drifts in various regions. Migrants and refugees have in particular been the preferred victims of these narratives. People and their rights must be the absolute priority in this time of pandemic, as the United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said, and no one can be left behind. It is with this imperative in mind, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who in Portugal have been strengthening the social state. It should be pointed out that in this severe crisis in our country this has been central to safeguarding social cohesion, with the SNS, public school and social security being the source of confidence and hope of millions of Portuguese. We never give up the Portuguese! Since Portugal was hit by COVID-19, in March last year, the government has already spent EUR 3, EUR 4 billion on social support, including exemptions and tax exemptions. in an effort to mobilize, social security has supported more than 2, 1 million citizens and 172 000 companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The simplified layoff reached about 1 million workers. We never give up the workers! The fact is that, as evidenced by the European Commission's study yesterday, without social support for citizens and businesses, unemployment would have been 20 times worse in Portugal. Instead of more than 11 000 unemployed, Portugal would be armed with more than 250 000 people without work. That's not the case. We don't give up Portugal and the Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As expected, the vaccination plan and all national logistics mounted, with important authentic support, has played a central role in the preservation of human lives, has been instrumental in reducing mortality and hospitalizations by COVID-19, in reducing outbreaks, especially in the most vulnerable populations, and in minimizing the impact of COVID-19 on the health system and society. in this period that we go through, the epidemiological situation has evolved favourably and reached, at the level of admissions and occupation of intensive care beds, a continuous drop, which removed the high and dramatic pressure on the SNS and its professional resilients, which is never too much to greet. Equally relevant is the number of recoverees—nearly 790 000 have recovered from the disease, the fruit of our SNS, which saves lives every day—and the significant reduction in the number of deaths by COVID-19, which we want to reduce to zero, because in this field it is already 'April that hurts' in Portugal and in the world, where nearly 3 million lives have already been lost. However, the evolution of R(t) and incidence rate shows, according to the weekly report of the Instituto Doctor Ricardo Jorge, an increasing trend in new cases, a situation that lacks increased attention for the purposes of 3. the phase of the defination plan, which was analyzed yesterday at the Infarmed meeting. Although we now have precious and decisive allies for disease control, such as the advance of the vaccination plan—there are more than 2 million administered vaccines and 90 % of the elderly with more than 80 years inoculated with the first dose, in addition to a large volume test to reach more than 9, 3 million tests and better monitoring—there are grounds for renewal of the state of emergency declaration, in a calibrated logic of caution with successive restrictions relief, a state of emergency that continues to save lives as well. The decoupling strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers is gradually, progressively and at a slow pace and must be adapted to measures proportionally to epidemiological situations, and it is always necessary, as Mr President of the Republic said, « to take care of the steps to be taken in the near future ». There's an urgent need, ladies and gentlemen. Members, active demand for transmission sources. Therefore, we must continue to track and vaccinate in a fluid manner, being very important the goal, announced by the task force, of having the whole population with more than 60 years vaccinated at the beginning of June, but, in parallel, a persistent culture of prevention is required, which begins in each one of us. To conclude, we also highlight, throughout this period, the involvement of Parliament, the parties and their leaders, the permanent scrutiny of measures and the constant monitoring of Parliament, because democracy has always been alive, attentive and robust, because here, in this House, it is always « April out and April inside ». We must overcome this virus together, advocate a global vaccination campaign, strengthening European health policy instruments, empowering a European health response mechanism and implementing the Resilient Plan successfully, in order to get out of this pandemic crisis with a greener, fairer and more digital society. Only in this way can we see « April of April dressed ( April so green) », « April of being », « April of yes ». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u33	Mr Luís Leite Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us debate and vote in this Parliament today, plus a renewal of the state of emergency on 15. a. There is certainly no one who is satisfied with the purpose of this debate and the limitations to which it may lead, but we must continue to be resilient, as are the Portuguese. And today, my first word is for them. Without contempt for those who are in the front line, and who have been legitimately remembered here, today I want to thank the Portuguese who have courageously managed their daily lives, adjusted their routines, organized among their different roles, with difficulty, but without slackening.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u36	I would like to thank the Portuguese who respect the rules and who continue to allow their freedom to be conditioned by a greater good and of all; the Portuguese who so often sacrifice their well-being and time with their families to help others; the Portuguese who do not stop fighting, even when the numbers are black, the news is bad and, on the horizon, it is a huge cloud of uncertainty. To all Portuguese we have to say: "Thank you! Do not keep on seeking. ” And to them we must explain and guarantee; to them we owe our best performance, our greatest ability to make the right decisions, to make the adjusted choices, without weights of any other kind or parallel objectives that are not the overcoming of this pandemic and the economic, social and, above all, the animical recovery of our society. We cannot respond to the effort with lack of clarity, with advances and retreats, with impreparation and amateurism. We must respond with responsibility and confidence, certain that the path we take is the best serves Portugal and the Portuguese. That is why the PSD has voted in favour of Mr President of the Republic's proposals for the establishment of the state of emergency and has always given the government space to govern. We know, responsiblely, that nothing good would happen to Portugal if, to a public health crisis with very serious social and economic consequences, a political crisis would come together. It could be the most useful for the party, but it was never an option. For us, the Portuguese have been and are always the first place.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u38	Political stability is therefore the best thing you can do for them right now. We have therefore put on that stability by the promise of a responsible and active, supportive and present, assertive and coherent government. But, unfortunately, that is not what we have witnessed. The degradation of public services has been flagrant in the last year. There is a pandemic, it is a fact, but everything else has not stopped — or should not have stopped, as it has not stopped in other countries. How is it explained that Portugal has not taken a single substantive measure to compensate for the impact of closing schools on student learning when 86 % of OECD countries ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) have done so? We had two general prisons. If, at the first closing of schools, this omission could have been tolerated, in a second confinement, this attitude is pure negligence. How is it explained that high school students who want to take grade improvement exams are, for the second consecutive year, prevented from doing so?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u40	In the first year, they could have alleged logistical problems. Now, you can only claim laziness, lust and impreparation. [[PSD applause.]] What generation would this be if it depended only on what the government is doing for it? A poor generation. A generation that doesn't meet the minimums. A lost generation, which would never be able to compete at the level of other international educational communities. Luckily, that's not what we have. unlike those who manage the guardianship, we have an energetic, secure generation, with a grip and will to overcome itself and the circumstances. We have a generation supported by a community of excellence, to whom we make a vein and which deserves much more than the little one who has shut it up and the crumbs that are given it, but which, with so little, has done so much. [[PSD applause.]] Parents, students and teachers are the ones who have taught this government true lessons. In its own way, they were managing, on a case-by-case basis, the best way to respond to the difficulties. in this ship without a master, the whole future of a generation is in the hands of the goodwill of the sailors, of their professional lust, of their commitment, because, even without the conditions they promised them, using their own means and sacrificing their personal life, the teachers gave their best to manage the distance and the lie. They were deceived, as we all were, that we believed in vain promises, hollow numbers and dates that were always being postponed: in the hiring of operational assistants, in the purchase and distribution of computers, etc. etc. etc. Today, we owe many teachers and parents the sacrifices they have made so that students will not stand up. It would be very unjust for the State not to recognize this merit and not to take responsibility for its monumental failings in education. In this sector, it runs a parallel pandemic, a virus of inefficiencies, insufficiency and degradation, which, if it is not quickly isolated – because it is already identified – may run the risk of spreading. And that, yes, can take decades to eradicate, like the decades of construction that it has already destroyed. In conclusion, Mr President, we hope that this state of emergency will be a state of transparency and respect, because the Portuguese deserve this attitude from the Government. They have already given everything they had, they have already given up, they have already given up, they have already allowed all their freedom to be limited; now they want help to re-emerge and move forward with confidence, with direction and without retreat. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u41	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country is in the process of defining and the question being asked at this time to the Assembly of the Republic is whether this process of defining needs a new state of emergency or not. We know the opinion of Mr President of the Republic: he delivered a decree equal to the previous one, asking for the statement of the state of emergency. Looking at the country and the plan the government presented, we realize that this state of emergency, if actually implemented, will be the last necessary within the framework that led to the creation and implementation of the current defination plan. Therefore, on the side of the Left Block, we have never denied, in the past, and we do not now deny the need for the state of emergency, but we believe it is fair and due to say that this is the last one that the country needs at this stage. We know that the horizon has some clouds, to which we must pay attention. The number of new cases continues to decline, but it is a fact that health services, intensive care units and hospitalizations are today much better than they were for some time. If the Government has chosen to have a map with R (t) and the incidence of 100 000 inhabitants as the main variables to assess the evolution of defining, I believe that what has been said to the country since the beginning, in order to be needed to flatten a curve so that the SNS does not fail, is the only bitula to which we should have a response. Now, this bottle says that, fortunately, the country is today in a situation that allows it to be decoupled and, if so, this state of emergency should be the last, because we should not trivialize it. The banalisation of the state of emergency is something that a democracy cannot accept and I believe that this is the challenge that Parliament must also leave both the President of the Republic and the Government today. But, having made it possible for the previous states of emergency, the Left Block always did so with a critical sense, because it said that the country could not stand back in front of what the government was executing—and so many times the government did not know how to meet the needs of the country. Even today, Mrs. Minister did not hide the numbers that are incontrovertible: the country tests less than it should test. If, today, there are new variants that threaten our future, they could be more contained, if the test plan was more massive than what is being implemented. We know of the difficulties of vaccination and how many of these difficulties have also been created by political choices, which continue to leave the giants of the multinational pharmaceuticals all profit and power over patents. When Portugal is ahead of the Council of the European Union, when Portugal has a voice that can and should be heard in Europe, Portugal fails to say that people are worth more than patents and that human life is worth much more than the profit of these multinationals. It is therefore necessary to have political leadership within our country and at European level, and that is what was required of the government and that the government has not been able to do. Looking at another fundamental issue, not to leave anyone behind at a time when the economic and social crisis is sinking, we realize that the government has not done everything it could have done. Instead of focusing its attention on the response to people, the government has decided to war with Parliament because of social support, although we realize that this war was absolutely indispensable, a political game that the country did not need. In fact, the Government itself acknowledged this when it sent for the enactment of decrees that enhance and reinforce what the Assembly itself has just promulgated and that the Government said it had no money to pay, and therefore sent it to the Constitutional Court. This is an absolutely unnecessary political game, at a time when the country is experiencing enormous difficulties and when there is something that is needed are social support so that poverty does not increase and inequalities do not reach new peaks. From that point of view, Parliament was well aware. Look at the government in Parliament and learn how you should support those who are going through so bad at this time of crisis. I conclude as I began: if this state of emergency is necessary, it is the last that must happen in this period. As for the future, we will see how it goes. If the situation so indicates, we will be able to discuss again more emergency states, if the country of them needs. But, at the moment we are defining, at the moment that health services are in a situation that is frankly better than that where they were in the past, this may and should be the last state of emergency in this period. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u43	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u44	Mrs. Government members, vaccination, screening, testing and social support are the central elements of the response that need to be realized in order to overcome the health problem we continue to face and the serious economic and social problems arising from confinement. This has been the alternative that the CFP has defended, and we continue to beat us so that it can happen. Vaccines are the great solution to the problem of the epidemic in the present and in the future, a public good of universal interest that has to be made available to mankind to address the public health problem that strikes peoples all over the world. Despite this, we saw, yesterday, one more episode in the commercial war between multinational pharmaceuticals, who continue to diglade themselves in the multimillionaire business of the sale of vaccines, secondarying people's lives and health. The actions of multinationals in this dispute, resorting to everything to see who sells more and who can prevent others from selling, is a truly criminal act. The political action of the European Union, which attempts to bind countries and peoples to the interests of these multinationals, is an act of complicity and convivence with this dirty business. The action of the Government, which leaves the whole country to the mercy of this trade war, is a wrong and irresponsible act. The CFP has brought to this Parliament the solution that needs to be implemented and which is based on three essential axes: diversifying the purchase of vaccines, creating vaccine production capacity in Portugal and suspending patents as a way to ensure the vaccination of Portuguese. The PS, the PSD, the CDS, the NAP, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative refused the PCP proposal, but the reality makes the need for these measures increasingly evident. It is necessary to diversify the acquisition and use of vaccines, ensuring conditions of safety and efficacy and the trust of populations. While Portugal is taking a step, clinging to absurd accusations of treason to the European Union, countries such as Germany are trying to acquire vaccines on other occasions to ensure the acceleration of the vaccination process. Countries that do not have the capacity to produce vaccines are trying to make the investments necessary for this purpose. What more is needed for the Government to understand the urgency of changing options and to implement the measures which they defend the country and the Portuguese? What more is needed for the Government to assume that only with this capacity of production is it possible to defend the life and health of Portuguese people, suspending patents and producing vaccines, if that is the way to ensure vaccination, in view of the gula of multinational pharmaceuticals? The same is true of measures to strengthen screening and testing capacity, which are absolutely essential measures for defining and avoiding new confinements. Finally, with regard to the problem of social support, we note that government diplomas were published yesterday which reinforce the implementation of support provided for in the State budget for 2021. We note that this has been done by decision of the Government itself, without the need for any supplementary or amending budget. We note that the Government has taken that step, confirming what the CFP has said since December: that the Government has the basis in the Budget that it needs to respond to the country's problems; that must be the answer. It is now necessary that this response and this reinforcement of support reach the workers of culture, the MPMEs (micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs), the managers and the independent workers, who remain unanswered. This response must also come to support the nearly 9000 workers involved in collective redundancies in the past year and to prevent redundancies threatening business workers such as Eurest, Altice, TAP, Portway, Montepio, New Bank or Crisof. It is because of this response that workers and the people cry out, and it is to these hopes that the government must correspond, because the country's future, economic recovery and national development depend on defending workers' rights, national sovereignty and production, MPMEs (micro, small and medium-sized enterprises), productive sectors, public services strengthening, SNS, public school and public control of strategic sectors. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We speak publicly of the banalization of the state of emergency and the need to find a lighter legal solution that simplifies the adoption of restrictive measures, a sort of legal regime of « ready-to-confineration ». This is the dangerous conception of anyone who wants to take advantage of the epidemic as a pretext so that restrictive measures such as those that have been taken can or should even be normalised. The PCP rejects such ideas and conceptions. Rights, freedoms and guarantees are matters of paramount importance and constitutional registration, matters for which protection was created the regime of the state of exception. The declaration of the state of emergency should not be seen as the hat for the restriction of rights, but rather as the way to ensure its respect and exercise under socially complex conditions, such as the epidemic. It is true that time has come to prove that the successive statements of the state of emergency correspond, after all, to the distorted view of the restriction without limits of constitutionally enshrined rights. The problem is therefore not only in the trivialization of the state of emergency; it is also, and above all, in the trivialization of the restrictive measures of those rights and freedoms. The succession of statements of the state of emergency, the indefinite repetition of restrictive measures and the volume of the economic and social problems resulting therefrom are confirmation of the error of this recipe as a form of response to the health problem. The alternative to these restrictive measures must be seen as the priority for responding to the health problem, as well as the indispensable aspect of compliance with democracy and respect for the Constitution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u45	It is the turn of Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group to whom I give the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u46	Mr President, Mr Minister of Internal Administration, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members : We discussed the fifteenth renewal of the state of emergency, and we have been in this for a year. This alone gives evidence not only of the seriousness of the moment we live and of the dramatic consequences that this pandemic has had, but also of a rule of law that has failed to adapt to this situation, because, at the end of one year, it continues to consider that it is the emergency that solves what unfortunately has become structural and that it is its measures that allow to respond to something that has needed, long enough, a much more consistent response. This is the emergence of a government which, by the voice of its Prime Minister, on the day he talks about the renewal of the state of emergency, invariably says that the rules have to be met severely and that there can be no facilitation, but it is the same thing that often, a week later, gives the greatest examples of facilitation and inability to deal with the state of emergency which he finds relevant. In other words, the Government has never been able to transmit to the country a consistency in its options, in the need to implement them and in the real assessment of whether or not it has achieved its objectives. It is always sailing in sight, always seeking, in optimism that allows a good electoral framework, the solution for what is not resolved with electoralism, nor is it resolved with optimism, but with courage and determination. And courage and determination is all that has been lacking in this government to deal with this situation! That is why to declare yourself another state of emergency is to renew more of it. It is to continue to lack this structural response to the problem and to realize, increasingly, that trivializing the exception makes people, of course, not have the same level of attention and capacity of compliance that they had in the past. We know that at the moment the state of emergency is little more than the role in which it is published, because unfortunately the country reacts, as it naturally reacts to so many renovations, with the indifference that this government deserves. And that's bad. It is bad for a rule of law that the government is viewed with indifference and that the measures it determines are increasingly misunderstood. No one knows what can be open anymore. No one knows what time it opens and what time it closes. No one knows what you can do anymore. No one knows if you can leave one county and enter the other. No one knows what he should and can do his life. But in these cases, we're talking only about habits. There are more serious problems. There are many Portuguese people who don't know what to do with their professional situation. There are many Portuguese people who don't know what to do with the situation of their small businesses and their small businesses and who hear what everyone says: « This opened, but perhaps, there for May close again». It saddens the government that allows it to create, in society, this idea that everything that is the rule today can no longer be a rule tomorrow and that everything that is objective today can be postponed from here to a few weeks. It is the erratic behavior of those who have no strategy, those who cannot inspire trust and those who do not have courage. That is why it is necessary to say, right now, that, if we are defining, it is not to go back. This has nothing to do with being a negationist, but with being ambitious in the implementation of a plan. If the plan is to definate, the Government must be able to take decisions at every moment not to go back, to allow those who have reopened their business to keep it open, that those who have returned to work can continue to work, that those who receive support receive them effectively. That's why there are four things that can't fail from here. First, you cannot fail the test, which has failed and much! It is not understood, for example, that schools are reopened without a true test plan for teachers, employees, students and the entire school community. This is not the case for basic education, it is not the case for secondary education and it is not the case for higher education. It is not clear that, due to changes in the supply of vaccines, there are no substantial changes also in the vaccination plan that adapt to this reality, allowing to maintain the objectives. It is not clear that having approved social support is the Government's recourse to the Constitutional Court, not against this Parliament, but against all those who can benefit from these support, in a clear denial not only of the democratic spirit but also of the spirit of solidarity towards these people, who deserve such support, approved by the overwhelming majority of the representatives of the citizens in Parliament. It was also necessary for the Government, which will now send the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) to Brussels, to realize indeed what challenges the country faces. The challenge is not more work and more public investment; the challenge is to bet on people, on their requalification, so that they can effectively meet the new post-pandamy challenges, and to support companies, so that at least they do not lose competitiveness and, preferably, win it. The country needs a government that knows how to respond at the moment and that knows how to look forward to the future. So far, the only thing the government knows how to do is to promote state of emergency renewals, not even the notion that the emergency is their own situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u47	I have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are today again called upon to pronounce ourselves on the renewal of the state of emergency, at a time when we are aware that the epidemiological situation continues to mirror an increase in cases, with the start of the third phase of the gradual reopening of the Government already scheduled next week. Today, we have heard a lot about the wear around the state of emergency, but, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the health and life of people cannot be above constitutional limits. That, yes, cannot be trivialized. If we want to say that, indeed, there must be limits and we must plan for a future in which we do not have to resort to this figure repeatedly, it is clear that yes, but the more than 16 000 deaths by COVID-19 that at this time we have already pointed out in the reports should not lead to the trivialization of the value of human life. Apart from the health emergency, we must not forget that we are experiencing an unprecedented crisis, an unprecedented social and economic emergency, a crisis that does not know the laws or constitutional limits on which there must be support and dialogue, including from the Government to the Assembly of the Republic. This is undoubtedly a situation which everyone must be concerned and which requires a lot of caution as to the steps we are going to take in the near future, so that, on the one hand, the defination plan will be fulfilled in accordance with the previously defined criteria and health measures and, on the other hand, that it will be carried out with responsibility, so that the economy can function again, so that families are supported, without having to return home from work. The growing increase that is seen, already in the near future, of the presence of people on the street and interpersonal contacts, due to the so-called gradual return to normality, must be accompanied, well we know, of a more integrated and structured strategy, of a greater screening capacity and a strengthening of the vaccination plan, in addition to the necessary shift of hours, especially of entry and exit of people in schools, or the articulation with the telework regime and the face-to-face work in contracycle with what some voices have been saying, until at least we have some scientific figures and evidence that give us another type of security for this return to a supposed normality. in this new phase of defination, in which we are faced with the return to present classes in secondary and higher education, it is essential that there be more monitoring, as well as more effective measures on the part of the government regarding the assessment of the situation in school context and of support to young students at school level, measures that pass, in addition to the shift of hours by classes, the social dimension and mental health. Here we come, we cannot fail to mention that the Ministry of Education has completely forgotten our young people. In addition, the associations have pointed out precisely the problems of isolation, mental health and the lack of social and food support, which have not arrived at the same time as the school follow-up which clearly lacks a government more attentive to the future and the present of our young people. This, together with the regular testing of educational agents, which has already been discussed here today, and the application of the vaccination plan. On the other hand, on the horizon, the reopening of other services, such as restaurants and cafes, the reopening of shops and shopping centres, the return of the public to cinemas, theaters, auditoriums and showrooms, is also seen, so it is essential that the mass testing prior to the reopening of these activities is in progress and is effectively carried out. We must also continue to monitor and control the new variants of the virus, in particular at the entry and exit of our country, ensuring the crucial role of public health specialists and ensuring the necessary means to act. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, together with the reopening of these different sectors, it is essential to avoid social chaos. We are facing a hecatomb, we are faced with the worsening of advances in combating poverty, gender inequality, the multiple forms of discrimination and the eradication of racism, xenophobia and transphobia, among many other examples. To this end, we need social support measures that are applied to families and businesses, rather than more investment in mega-Roman works, which do not serve the country, do not serve the challenges of our time, including at social, economic and environmental level. It is essential that businesses and other economic entities be helped to overcome the negative effects of this health crisis and that crisis-fighting solutions be developed, because people, families and businesses need to know what they are now talking about, both in the present and in the future. It is certainly up to not only Parliament, but also the government to ensure that there is a robust response to the socio-economic crisis that we live in, ensuring that people, particularly the most vulnerable, are not left behind. This does not go hand in hand with a government that closes its eyes, does not dialogue with Parliament and holds back social support. To stop social support is not to stop the majority will of Parliament, it is to stop the emerging needs of our citizens. The NAP will not fail to vote in favour of the renewal of the state of emergency, but in agreement with Mr President of the Republic in the hope that this will be the last and recalling that the responsible compliance with today's restrictions is the guarantee of tomorrow's freedom. But responsibility cannot be transferred solely to the individual sphere. on the part of the Government, on the part of Parliament, it is up to all of us not to miss the call, contributing with effective public policies to combat the crisis and thus with socio-economic responses.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u49	Mr Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The ritual remains! The discussion of the renewal of the state of emergency declaration returns to the Assembly of the Republic, a statement of credibility and usefulness, because, as we have said so many times here, it was not necessary for the adaptations of our day to day that we were forced to do over the past year. It was not necessary for people to organize themselves and respect the lines to make purchases. It was not necessary to ensure that the most varied initiatives, carried out outdoors, were carried out safely. It was not necessary to ensure that the tables of the flats contain only four people while they are having a meal or socializing in safety. Therefore, the great doubt that arises is because it insists on the state of emergency when it is evident that it has no influence in the process of phase defining, which is going on positively; because it insists on declaring the state of emergency, when what is needed is to put security plans into practice, providing the spaces of investments and means for it to be possible to work, study, live culture and sport and socialize safely. The Greens do not know that it is necessary to definate with confidence, because the next phase will be increasingly demanding, with younger people in public transport, more people on the streets, more freedom of movement and that, with this, contacts will increase and, consequently, the numbers of infected will also increase. In December 2020 we said: « The promise of the vaccine for the beginning of 2021 can give us confidence to stand before the principle of a solution to this nightmare. But we know that the measures we have introduced in our routines will still be needed for much longer, requiring the Government to raise awareness and clarify, in order to make it clear that, despite the coming of the vaccine, we will continue to be committed to the application of the protection measures, because the coming of the vaccine will not solve the problems of the pandemic by itself from night to day. The way we should go is to strengthen public services, to improve communication, to explain the health security measures that we must follow for the protection of all. It's not the state of emergency that will stop the spread of the virus. If we think, for example, that the winter months may be the most difficult, due to the flu and constipations, we will have and will have to take more reinforced measures of health safety, at least until March. We must also strengthen services, realize where propagation has the greatest incidence, seek to respond to needs and return minimum normality to the days of Portuguese.”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Here we are, on 14 April, affirming the same as we said four months ago. It is necessary to restore normality to people's lives, not forgetting that the COVID-19 continues among us. However, we already have the experience of one year, in as many areas as possible. It is possible to continue our routines safely, adopting measures and behaviors that protect us. It is necessary to make investments, to give more support and to use the means available to the Government, in particular within the framework of the State budget, to ensure this essential course. It is therefore urgent to carry out the promises of mass testing, tracking and creating conditions to isolate positive cases. It is urgent to vaccinate, comply with the vaccination plan, making it exit from the caracol speed at which it is found, and this will only be possible if more vaccines are purchased. It is urgent to provide all spaces of safety plans, so that people can return to their routines without the numbers of infected people going up abruptly and overloading the National Health Service. We know, and we always know, that schools are safe spaces and that can even serve as a barometer. That is, if schools are safe spaces, with tight rules, with hygiene, with the application of rules in behavior, we can conclude that in the workplaces, health centres, museums, theaters, cinemas, public transport, it will also be possible to apply effective safety rules and plans. This must be done at the same time as looking at the deterioration of the economic and social situation. The country does not need another emergency period. But it is essential, it is essential to put all state structures on the alert to face layoffs, to increase families with food shortages and other types, to ensure that there is no clearness in the face of the difficulties in meeting the obligations. It is therefore essential that the Government be vigilant in responding to social, economic and mental health problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u53	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This state of emergency has become an emergency state of propaganda. What we had said, that is, that we would vaccinate our elderly by the end of March, was one of the biggest falsehoods that we could tell our population. Consider the example of the European Union, which promised to vaccinate 80 % of the elderly by 30 March and which vaccinated 36 %. Repeat: 36%! These are the shameful numbers of most socialist or right-wing governments in Europe that should not be ignored! But even here we couldn't stand up to Antonio Costa's words in the sense that we would leave no one behind, as well as the terrible beer he made to not support those who paid taxes with green receipts. Independent workers have been looked aside, treated as bandits, as if nothing had contributed in recent years! That was the sense of leaving no one behind. That was the sense we gave to those who worked, paid taxes and discounted in recent years. In the middle of this, we managed to do better: we asked the police to continue to work, but not half of its elements were tested! And this Minister here today can come to this house and say that the cops are being treated well! We asked the courts to reopen, but we did not vaccinate the officers of justice, as if they were minors or employees of a lesser god! We asked the schools to reopen, but we couldn't test teachers or students! Shame — that is what we can say about this state of emergency! Even when we were fighting for the country in which we believed, we realized the tragedy that struck us, with a government that can't support who needs and that leaves behind those who have been paying for this same state in recent years. Even at the risk of my parliamentary immunity being lifted, I will say this: while the country was in a state of emergency, a judge, in a criminal investigation court, enjoyed Portugal and the Portuguese and passed by a very white cloak someone who was laughing out of the court with millions in their pockets and nothing for the Portuguese. While the country was confined and frightened, a judge enjoyed those who in recent years have tried to make this a better country. Europe was looking at us unbelievably, the world was looking at us without understanding how someone with so many millions in the pocket had finally left a courtroom as if it were nothing. The country, in confinement, looked at an incredulous decision of a court that is neither God nor the Bible; it must be scrutinized, criticized and we should be able to point his finger at it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u55	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u56	I will finish, Mr. President. I said one day that José Socrates couldn't laugh at Ericeira. Now it's not him who's laughing, it's all us who are making a fool of ourselves, while others laugh out of court. That is the emergency of Portugal, and that is what we should have solved!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u57	For an intervention by the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal is asleep. The banalization of this fifteen-year renewal ritual of the state of emergency is only one example of this. A little everywhere, you notice anxiety, disbelief and lack of energy, the energy we lack will do at this time of recovery. Families live distressed by confinement and fear, the fear of the virus, but also the fear of losing their jobs, the fear of the day when the moratoriums ended and the fear of seeing their children lose years of crucial education for their future. Younger people are still unable to play, socialize or do sports and wonder if the future that awaits them deserves the effort that learning recovery will require. Companies, in turn, survive in a vegetative state, with no investment horizons and no recovery, trying to navigate the labyrinth of support that does not reach, while the tax accounts continue to arrive. Portugal is asleep and the PS Government is embalming the cradle, concerned about the power it has in the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees), with the power it has in the authorities, with the power wherever it can be exercised. The PS only wants to exercise this power to perpetuate it, to satisfy customers and interests, instead of doing so that Portugal can wake up from this torpor and get out of the strongest and most prosperous crisis. in this context, the management of the pandemic continues to disarticulate, disarticulate in itself, since there is still no link between plans of defination, vaccination and testing, and disarticulate also with the needs of society and the economy. in this sense, the PRR, which will be delivered in Brussels this month, is at risk of being a missed opportunity that future generations will not forgive. The Government must once and for all assume that this process of defination, of gradual return to normality, is the first step in a process of social and economic recovery. And in this process, the funds that will be available in the coming years are even an opportunity for Portugal to be able to change the structure of its economy and its model of social and economic development, but for this it is essential that the whole society, in particular the private initiative, be mobilized to understand the opportunity that the PRR closes. To insist on priority to public investment without cost-benefit analyses, as the PRR mentor himself has already acknowledged, will be a historic error. Portugal is asleep. It is time for Portugal to wake up and live again, but it will not do so in a state of emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u59	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u60	Poverty is not a situation. Poverty in Portugal is a vicious cycle, precisely because it is an inheritance that passes from generation to generation and has been difficult to overcome by the majority of the population. We are talking about low wages, energy discomfort, social and housing exclusion, the difficulty of access to housing, a dignified job. Poverty is an action, it is not just a consequence. In fact, it is a consequence of action, because there is an action of impoverishment of the population when, as the last study pointed out, both reformers and workers and the unemployed are all in serious situations of social vulnerability. While OECD recommends strengthening social support in the fight against COVID-19, I recommend that we make the fight against poverty the number one priority in the fight against COVID-19 and its effects, which obviously will be much more impactive to the most vulnerable and the most needy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u61	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The transmissibility index numbers are not as encouraging as we would like, but we still have the lowest number of admissions in the last seven months, so the defination plan should be kept prudent. From the outset, telework must continue to be promoted, provided that the conditions for its exercise are guaranteed. For example, despite the obligation of telework, the Act (Working Conditions Authority) remains without guidance on how the costs of telephone and internet expenses of the employer should be calculated. In addition, Portuguese have to maintain care, including the use of masks and social distance, but the Government also has to do its part, ensuring the commitment to do mass testing and fulfilling the vaccination plan. Since February the Government has referred to the importance of testing on a large scale, but only on 18 March has a task force been created with the aim of developing a plan for the operationalization of the testing strategy in Portugal. However, there appears to be no date defined to present this plan. It happens that as long as the plan goes out and doesn't go out, life goes on and the country can't stop. With regard to the vaccination plan, it is necessary to ensure compliance, especially in the light of the contracts that have occurred with the various vaccines. The administration of AstraZeneca vaccine has been involved in controversy and now there is news that Johnson & Johnson vaccine may also be presenting serious side effects. The task force has already reported that these issues will not delay the vaccination plan, but there is an undeniable effect, which is that of mistrust by the population on the efficacy or side effects of vaccines. Finally, the declaration of the state of emergency must have an exceptional character, given the inevitable implications for the restriction of rights, freedoms and guarantees. We must therefore avoid its prolongation for much longer and ensure that as long as it remains, there are no abuses. Today, I will vote again in favour of the state of emergency declaration, hoping this is the last time I have to.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u63	To close the debate, Mr. Minister for Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme of this debate is 15. the period of declaration of the state of emergency proposed to the Assembly of the Republic by the President of the Republic. We have been living in a state of emergency since the middle of last November and with a more demanding set of measures, restrictive of fundamental rights, since mid-January. And what I heard today is expressed by several benches, by those who, in fact, have contributed to the broad national consensus around the adoption of the state of emergency, was the genuine wish that this could be the last declaration of the state of emergency. In the framework of a global pandemic of unique dimensions, we need to understand the dimension of the phenomenon in which Portugal integrates. There were so far 138 million infected people worldwide and we reached two tragically symbolic marks this week: 3 million deaths worldwide and over 100 000 deaths in Europe. It is in this framework that, in Portugal, the result of the measures we have recently discussed, adopted in the most critical period of the response to this pandemic, in January and February, we are charting the path that enables us to consolidate a result that is in the hands of all of us, which depends on all citizens, for which this consensus between sovereign bodies — the Presidency of the Republic, Parliament and Government — is fundamental to giving the Portuguese confidence in the steps that are lacking in this direction. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, when we look at the path taken, we must highlight a widespread adherence of the population, which translates, in Portugal, into the almost anecdotal dimension of negationist movements or how security forces have had a firm intervention in the monitoring, but, essentially, marked by a dimension of awareness in their action. That is also why, unlike in other European countries, the application of restrictive measures of freedoms has been translated into a framework of profound social stability every night. In fact, it has been translated into a reduction in indicators, both of violent crime and of general crime, as demonstrated in the recent Annual Report on Internal Security, by pointing out the lowest rates of the occurrence of criminal phenomena since 1989, that is, since 32 years ago this mode of registration has been established. Therefore, it is also so important to check the path that has been taken, a path marked by the expansion of testing. It's not true that we're in the last test sites. Portugal has over 9, 5 million tests done. Just to quote neighbouring countries, without giving exotic examples, we test more than Spain, we test more than Germany, we test more than the Netherlands, we test more than Switzerland. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thus, the reopening of schools was also accompanied by a process of mass testing of teachers and other members of the educational community. Even last week, 110 000 tests were performed in school context, with 125 cases of COVID-19, i.e. about 0, 1 % of detection of new cases. It is in this context that, since we began to definate, the results have consolidated a reduction in the number of admissions and interns in intensive care units. It is about half of what they were when, on March 15, we began to definite, in a reduction in the number of active cases, regardless of the attention we will have to take, either to the evolution of the communicable factor, of the so-called « R », or to local phenomena of growth of cases of disease incidence, which are manifested in some regions of the country. When we started to definate, we had about four dozen municipalities with numbers above 120 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. We are today with 22 and we should not have any, but this is the framework of evolution which, globally, is a sign of hope. This last fortnight was the fact that, for the first time since the pandemic began — and, above all, very clearly, since, in January, more significant measures were needed — there were whole weeks without a single death in homes or residential structures for the elderly. This is due to what has been done with regard to homes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is due to having more than 90 % of people over 80 years of age already vaccinated. Therefore, they are the most fragile that, fortunately, have a lower incidence of the disease today. It is also, above all, this segment that records an extended set of days without us having to regret the loss of any life. That is also why it is so important to continue vaccination in other sectors. As Minister of Internal Administration, I am not only focused on COVID or on crime prevention levels. We are also paying attention to the prevention of the risk of rural fire and, therefore, this week, all firefighters will be vaccinated, with priority, within the framework of state resilience, as the elements of the security forces are already mostly vaccinated. That is why this measure is so decisive, when we intend to prolong the state of emergency for another 15 days. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Once again, I would like to note that more than 80 % of Members in this House will be able to adopt this proposal by Mr President of the Republic and that the Government will not leave tomorrow, on the basis of all the scientific information available at the meeting held yesterday in Infarmed and all the information available to date, to adopt the fair balance between the will and the need for defination and the absolute determination in the adoption of restrictive measures or the possible suspension of this level of defination, where necessary. I therefore heard with satisfaction the PSD say that political stability is important. Yes, that is the determination that leads us to be with the Portuguese throughout this year, the most difficult year of our collective life and certainly the most difficult year of all those who have ever assumed political responsibilities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For this reason, for the Portuguese Government, the Recovery and Resilient Plan and the new multiannual financial framework are instruments combined in this strategy to address the emergency and, above all, with attention to combating the pandemic, to prepare for the recovery of the economy and strengthening territorial cohesion, to prepare a time when, immediately, but also in the period which will mark the next decade, development is guided by territorial cohesion and convergence is guided by solidarity. The way we do today is one more step. It is 15 decisive days that are in the hands of all Portuguese, with respect for the rules, in collective mobilization for progressive liberation and for a recovery of full freedom, full normality, of the universe from a time of hope for our lives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u65	We have thus reached the end of this debate on the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency. 219 Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then vote on this request for authorization to renew the state of emergency. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of BE.]] from the third point of our agenda, for which no time has been assigned, there is Law No 77 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Determines the cessation of legal decrees published between 1986 and 1991. Let us therefore move on to the next point, of which the general discussion of the Bill No 79 / XIV / 2 is contained. a ( GOV ) — Extension of the value added tax exemption for intra-Community transfers and acquisitions of goods necessary to combat the effects of the COVID 19 pandemic. To present this bill, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill is due to the approval made by Law No 13 / 2020, which, in accordance with the authorisation of the European Commission, enables the public institutions, non-profit institutions and higher education institutions to enjoy the exemption from VAT ( value added tax ) on importation. When we transposed this decision from the European Commission to domestic law, in addition to imports, we chose to extend to intra-Community procurement and also to internal transmissions, thus maintaining a framework of full competition. This exemption was, however, extended by the European Commission until 31 April of this year and, ending this exemption on that day, the European Commission has already initiated the extension procedure until 31 December 2021, and we expect that the final approval of the same extension will be made in the coming days. The Government has already presented the bill in order to guarantee the confidence, stability and legal certainty of economic operators in order to maintain this exemption from VAT both in imports and, I repeat, in intra-Community procurement and also in the internal transmissions of the goods necessary to combat COVID-19 acquired either by public institutions or by higher education institutions, scientific institutions and non-profit institutions. I am therefore at the disposal of the ladies and gentlemen. Members for any clarification. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u67	For an intervention, Mrs Lina Lopes, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs: On 30 April last year, we discussed Law No 13 / 2020, which covered two aspects. The first of these aspects concerns Article 2. the, i.e. the exemption from VAT in the intra-Community transmissions and acquisitions of goods necessary for the fight against COVID-19, intended for free distribution to persons infected with COVID-19, or exposed to that risk, or participating in the fight against COVID-19, the treatment of persons affected by COVID-19 or its prevention, which are acquired by the State, by the autonomous regions, by local authorities, as well as by any of their services, institutions and bodies, health institutions, certain entities for charitable or philanthropic purposes, certain scientific and higher education institutions. The second paragraph concerns Article 3. the, referring to the reduced rate of VAT applicable to respiratory protective masks and skin disinfectant gel. As we know, and the Secretary of State said again - these measures - both the exemption from VAT in intra-Community transmissions and acquisitions, and the reduced rate of VAT in the transmission of masks and gels - are only valid until 30 April, i.e. until the end of this month. The bill here under discussion, Bill No. 79 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), proposes the extension of both until the end of 2021, i.e. until 31 December 2021. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, the extension of VAT exemption in intra-Community transmissions and acquisitions depends on the new extension of the period of application of Decision ( EU ) 2020 / 491 of 3 April 2020 to which the Government refers. thus, I ask the Government whether the new extension of the period of application of this decision is now properly approved. I ask this question because apparently it is not published in the Official Journal of the European Union. So if it has not been approved, how does the government propose to do so? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, the PSD Parliamentary Group will follow this bill and the extension it proposes until 31 December of this year. However, we must not fail to regret that the Government has not also accompanied this House at the time of the adoption of extraordinary social support, which had the support of all parliamentary groups except for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group — I repeat, except for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group! At the time, the PSD Parliamentary Group, in particular its leader, Mr Adam Silva, drew attention to the following: « The country lives an extreme hour of great delicacy, and it is necessary to find good and inclusive solutions for families, entrepreneurs and workers ». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, two days ago, on April 12th, Monday, we were confronted with a study, conducted by the Fundação Francisco Manuel dos Santos, entitled The Poverty in Portugal : Trajetos e Quotidios, which describes a country adjourned and impoverished. One fifth of the Portuguese population is poor, one in three poor people has stable jobs, i.e. they have jobs, but they are poor; i.e. we have jobs with wages of poverty. On the other hand, it says that almost 50% of the unemployed are in poverty and that the rate of child poverty is persistently higher than the overall rate itself, being the aggregates where there are those where the rate of poverty is higher. Therefore, not only does the present generation suffer from poverty, as it is already marking the existence of the next generations. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the social crisis caused by COVID-19 and the high degree of uncertainty and disorientation that resulted from the intensity and duration of the pandemic resulted in an increase in poverty and the risk of entry or return in this situation of the most vulnerable and unprotected. This House was right when it approved extraordinary social support. The data of poverty speak for you! [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u69	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The proposal which the Government brings to the Assembly of the Republic is, as has already been explained by the Secretary of State, the extension of something which we have actually discussed for a few weeks. In fact, looking at the evolution of the pandemic, it seems to us that we will still have long months of pandemic in front of us. For this reason, all measures that can in any way expedite and facilitate the purchase, acquisition or transmission of personal protective equipment and equipment to make the diagnosis will be accompanied by us, as we have already accompanied similar proposals in the past. However, both the European Union and the Portuguese Government cannot ignore an issue which seems to us to be obvious, which is the fact that at the moment the major problem is access to the vaccine. It will obviously not be with an exemption from VAT that access to the vaccine will be solved, because the problem is not so much in the taxation of the vaccine, but in the production of the vaccine. That is the big problem right now, and therefore, although we follow these measures, of course they will not solve it. It was important for the European Union and the Portuguese Government themselves to take at least a clearer position in the real trade war we are witnessing in the pharmaceutical industry, which tries to cancel other competitors and which somehow creates a monopoly in the production of vaccines, resisting the lifting of patents, the sharing of information and technology to strangle production and maintain high prices and the added value of pharmaceuticals. That is really the problem right now. In this regard, the European Union and the Portuguese Government themselves had a regrettable behaviour at the World Trade Organisation meeting when they were not side by side with the various countries defending patent lifting. Therefore, the Government, without taking a more courageous position and, finally, for more VAT exemptions that it can bring to the Assembly of the Republic with regard to individual protective equipment, diagnostic tests, etc. , the problem will not be solved. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u71	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The proposed law we are discussing here is to establish common sense and we believe that it is generally accompanied by all. The aim is to extend by 31 December two important measures, namely: the exemption of VAT in intra-Community transmissions and acquisitions of goods necessary to combat the pandemic and the application of a reduced rate to masks and disinfectant gel. This is a just and necessary measure in the current context, in which, despite vaccination, we know that masks and gel will continue to be part of our daily lives. But on this occasion, we must remember that, if Portugal is the third country in the euro area that spends less on combating the health crisis, this is also due to the view adopted by the Government and the PS on the VAT of personal protective equipment. Let us see: last year, for example, Italy, Finland, Belgium or the Netherlands gave up tax revenue and released VAT masks. Portugal preferred to abdicate only part of this tax revenue, but continues to charge 6 % of VAT, even in a scenario where families are experiencing great difficulties and where the value they saved in VAT could be channelled to, for example, food expenditure. That is, for the Government and the Socialist Party, tax revenue and savings are above the needs of families. But let's keep going. This bill extends the VAT application of 6 % for disinfectant masks and gel until the end of 2021, and we approved here a few weeks ago the VAT exemption for carrots. What I'm asking, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the only equipment needed to combat the health crisis. For example, are single-use gloves not necessary for individual protection of persons? Aren't the visas necessary? And should not surgical suits, towels or footwear protections be subject, as is the case with masks, to a reduced rate of VAT? The response to the common citizen is relatively obvious: it should be because, if more or less used, these elements are essential for combating the health crisis and should therefore be taxed as such. The essential nature of these products was also recognised by the European Commission last Monday by a proposal including the products which I have just referred to in the proposed VAT exemption of goods and services that the European Commission and EU bodies and agencies make available to Member States and citizens in times of crisis. In other words, if Portugal has doubts that, for example, single-use gloves are essential to combat the health crisis, the European Commission does not have and has made it clear this week. Contrary to the opinion of the European Commission, there are first and second individual protective equipment for Portugal. But you know the most curious thing about all this? It is in this case that it is not only the Government and the Socialist Party that on 30 April 2020 the NAP proposed here that all these essential assets to combat the health crisis should have 6 % VAT and that proposal was cast with the votes against the Socialist Party, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and Arrival. Therefore, in this case, if the government and the PS do not abdicate tax revenue it is because this great negative coalition has allowed it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u73	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill that we are discussing here today has in its essence exactly the same analysis on the part of the CDS, which has already taken the initiative that gave rise to it and which we have discussed here in April 2020. What she is going to do is dedicate a special VAT regime to some of the equipment that is related to COVID-19 and, of course, what we think is that, as long as there is pandemic, it makes sense that this exceptional regime is maintained. Therefore, nothing to object from this point of view to the extension of its validity until 31 December 2021. However, I would like to leave a suggestion and a warning that has to do with the following: this legislation is not the only one related to COVID-19. There is a lot of legislation related to the pandemic and we are beginning to see a great disparity with regard to the dates and, above all, with the foreseeable dates of the operation of that legislation. Otherwise, let us see: I believe that last month, the government has already passed a decree of law which makes telework compulsory and, also, timing, in a way that seems manifestly abusive to me, until 31 December 2021. The question that remains for me, Mr Secretary of State, is why, for example, legislation on bank moratoriums does not end then, too, on 31 December 2021 and why there are moratoriums to end before. We can't have some rules for some things and other rules for others. Taking advantage of the presence of Mr Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, I believe that the tax enforcement procedures, which were suspended until the end of last month, are no longer so — I would like to ask you why you did not apply to the subject which protects, in particular, the tax enforcement procedures, the same logic that has been proposed here to be applied, and well, to the masks and other pandemic combat material.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u75	Mr Duarte Alves, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Once again we discussed the extension of the VAT exemption in relation to the import of devices necessary to combat COVID-19. As has been our position during the health crisis we are facing, we will approve all measures that allow us to remove barriers to the import of goods necessary for the fight against COVID-19. But if it is true that taxation should not be a barrier to the great mission facing the country, which is to move quickly with the vaccination process, it is also true that there are other obstacles that should also be overcome. And since the last time we discussed this issue last February, the Government insists not to remove these obstacles. We are talking about the obstacles resulting from the greed and compromise failures of large pharmaceuticals. We are talking about the obstacles resulting from the government's self-limitation of contracts made by the European Union with pharmaceuticals that do not have sufficient production capacity and do not accept subcontracting the production of vaccines or sharing or suspending patents. Even when countries such as Germany, which are also part of the power directory in the European Union, already resort to vaccines outside European Union contracts, Portugal remains bound by this disastrous Brussels vaccine strategy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u77	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u78	It is necessary to ensure the diversification of the purchase of vaccines in order to achieve the vaccination objectives. Once again, it is necessary that, in addition to these tax obstacles that are now removed, these other obstacles are also overcome, for a rapid vaccination of all Portuguese and the fight against COVID-19, in order to resume normality in life. Mr Secretary of State, what the Government is doing with this measure is applying the VAT exemption to these products before a European directive leaves. And it is very good because if that is indeed necessary, it must do so without being dependent on the European Union. With regard to the moratoriums and the proposal of the CFP which was presented here and approved by the Assembly of the Republic, what has been placed as a major obstacle is the idea that there is no authorisation by the European Banking Authority. What I would like to ask the Government is what diligence it has taken to ensure that the obstacles to the application of this measure, which is the prolongation of moratoriums, are also removed, an urgent measure before the moment we are currently living. Of course, it does not solve everything — what will resolve everything will be to achieve the normality of life so that people can pay their benefits and it will also be with the vaccination that this may move forward — but the measure on moratoriums needs to have a quick resolution and we would like to know whether the government is taking some steps in this area to ensure that this measure, when adopted in its final version, may have no obstacle on the part of the European Commission. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u79	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Vera Braz of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Secretary of State: For more than a year, we have been part of our vocabulary terms such as breathers, fans, monitors, masks or disinfectant gel, among others, medical devices or protective materials that have become indispensable in the fight against COVID-19, whether in its prevention or in the treatment of people affected by this outbreak. These were our first weapons to fight this pandemic. From then on, in a concerted effort between the various Member States of the European Union, joint actions have been established to enhance the benefits of exceptional instruments available to assist victims and with a framework in the current pandemic context. Of course, tax measures have been adopted, in particular the application of customs duty and total VAT exemption on imports of goods such as those mentioned at the outset. In Portugal, the Government, aware of the importance of differentiated tax treatment for combating the pandemic, extended, and well, this VAT exemption, not forgetting our companies and the requirement to maintain free competition in an open market. Other exemptions were followed, such as the exemption from VAT for transmissions of medical devices for in vitro diagnosis of COVID-19, vaccines and services related to these, and it is never too much to remember, because it has already been mentioned here and put into question our testing capacity, that we are close to reaching the 10 million tests performed and that, as regards the vaccination plan, if we would certainly like to have a greater number of vaccines already administered, it is also never too much to safeguard the work of our health professionals, who have, in an efficient way, given an exemplary response, already being administered 2, 2 million vaccines. It is in the pursuit of this path of support, but also of responsibility and requirement not to waste any measure that helps in the fight against COVID-19, that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will be with the Government in the extension of this period until 31 December 2021 and granting the possibility of a further extension by decree of VAT exemption for the intra-Community acquisitions and transmissions of these goods which continue to be essential to halt this struggle, save lives and recover the economy. And because it was mentioned here on the question of social support, I would also like to remind you that, with exceptional measures to support and prevent the breakdown of income of workers, families and businesses, 2, 4 million people, almost 200,000 companies, have already been reached in a value of EUR 25 billion, including in tax deductions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u81	The Bureau shall not register any parliamentary group for further interventions. By giving your silence as an acquiescence that this is the case, we are moving towards the conclusion of this debate with the intervention of the Government, having the floor, to this end, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am grateful for the questions raised by Mrs Lina Lopes, particularly those concerning the question of Portugal before the Commission's decision was published. Yes, we are doing so, Mrs. Member. And we are doing so for two reasons: firstly, to ensure the continuity of the measure, which ended the exemption on 31 March, I believe that the honourable Member will certainly not oppose this stability decision, and, secondly, because the European Union itself has invited Portugal to accede to the same extension and Portugal has already communicated it. That is why we are only waiting for it to be published and, as Mr Duarte Alves has put it, we are, regardless of that decision, already taking it. Madam Member, the decision of the European Commission is on imports. Our interpretation is that there is free competition in the single market only if this decision, concerning imports, is extended, as we have done from the outset, to intra-Community acquisitions and domestic acquisitions. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in these debates, which are simple debates, of extension of a measure, I think it is not worthwhile to be trying to distance ourselves from each other. We are all in favour of the measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u83	I just want to know if they're or not. I just asked one question!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u84	So it is not because we have more time for the speech that we use to huddle each other, because what is important, from my point of view, is to be focused on resolving the issues raised. For example, the ladies and gentlemen. Members were talking about moratoriums and I remembered the office, which I signed before even coming here, regarding moratoriums on financial lease contracts, in which the question was raised, when the financial leases are longer than 12 months and there are no monthly benefits, if it would then be due to VAT on businesses and families. Obviously, if we approve a 12-month moratorium, we cannot of course make a table of this moratorium and apply VAT. Therefore, I think that we are all very committed to the answer that needs to be given and what I am withdrawing from this debate is the unanimity, which seems to me to exist in the extension authorized by the European Union of the VAT exemption for these products until 31 December 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u85	The general discussion of the Bill No 79 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), we proceed to the review of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 95 / XIV— Approves special public procurement measures and amends the Public Contracts Code, as annexed to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January 2008, the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals, as annexed to Law No 15 / 2002 of 22 February 2002, and Decree-Law No 200 / 2008 of 9 October 2008. To begin the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The review of Decree No 95 / XIV requires us to recall the objectives of Bill No 41 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ), which was at its origin, and the path that such a proposal has taken so far. However, the Public Administration cannot, with quality, efficiency and efficiency, exercise its objectives of ensuring the public interest and satisfaction of public and collective needs if it is not equipped with appropriate, inter alia, legal tools. It was then intended, in respect of the principle of good administration, to promote contractual administrative activity without waste of time, human resources and financial resources. The proposed amendments were essentially divided into two areas, united by a purpose of modernising and simplifying administrative activity and promoting advertising and scrutiny of all procedures. On the other hand, a special public procurement regime was established, addressed to some public policy objectives that require a more rapid and agile response and, on the other hand, an amendment to the Public Contracts Code, which, in addition to promoting a series of shortcomings and inadequacies that the experience has made visible, placed its greatest relevance in the adoption of measures to simplify and simplify the public procurement regime. The special scheme carried out as central objectives of the contractual administrative activity the implementation of projects co-financed by European funds, projects integrated under the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, promoting public housing or controlled costs, intervention in buildings whose ownership and management had been transferred to municipalities in the process of decentralization of competences and initiatives in the field of information and knowledge technologies. It also established measures concerning contracts concluded under the Integrated Rural Fire Management System with regard to the management of fuels and the acquisition of agro-food goods from organic production provided by defenders of the Family Agriculture Statute or of the Status of Young Rural Entrepreneurs. With regard to the amendment to the Public Contracts Code, the introduction for the first time, of the general principles of public procurement, of the reference to the duty of contracting entities to ensure that the operators concerned ensure compliance with the applicable rules on prevention and combating corruption. This standard was also implemented by establishing the obligation of some contractors to submit a plan to prevent corruption and related infringements, as an enabling document, as well as by banning prior consultations or the succession of prior consultations of the invitation to entities specifically related either by sharing legal representatives or partners or by being linked by any type of relationship. The social, environmental and cultural criteria were also valued, in order to positively highlight the contribution of the proposals to the objectives of valuing the circular economy and combating climate change, including by valuing short chains and close public purchases, among other aspects of innovation, promoting qualification and cultural dynamization. In short, the regime of public procurement was aligned with the main political priorities of the country and Europe, serving the most urgent public needs and promoting the main benchmarks and good practices in the field of public procurement. At the time of its presentation in this Parliament, the Government has made itself available to the House to contribute to an in-depth debate which would contribute to the construction of an extended consensus. This highly attended debate gave rise to the replacement text that this House has approved and that today we re-appreciate with amendments, as a result of the message that the President of the Republic addressed to this House at the time of the return of the Decree. The Government remains available for this debate. The broad consensus between sovereign bodies, which has always been sought, aims to strengthen the quality of the mechanisms underlying this legislative intervention, both those of simplification and those of supervision and transparency. Institutions, bodies of sovereignty or administration must make every effort to ensure that contracts are transparent, removing suspicions about the investments the country needs, precisely because their country needs and cannot be harmed by unjustified bureaucracy, corruption or the perception of corruption. The perception of corruption, if higher than the verified rates of corruption, is an evil in itself, which deteriorates trust in institutions, the country's reputation and the quality of democracy itself. The improvements introduced in the decree, in the version we are discussing today, respond to all the legitimate concerns of the Head of State and enable the special regime contained in the legislative initiative to be credible. With an increased level of demand here, either at the place of supervision of the Court of Auditors or at the site of follow-up by the committee set up for this purpose, or even at the place of counter-ordering, the country is sure that there are many eyes on these processes and many calls for them to pass through. This is central to the quality of our democracy and to the development of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u87	Mr Carlos Pereira of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the country's tremendous resistance and resilience to the pandemic crisis, I am sure that Portugal must accelerate and deepen all the processes that help recovery, in order to minimize the obvious social and economic damage. Many months ago, the most disturbing doubt was whether it would be possible to mobilize sufficient financial resources to combat a single crisis that has hit families and Portuguese companies in the first place. It is worth stressing that this legitimate concern is largely overcome. The means are available and, despite the extension of the pandemic and the uncertainty in the north, there are sound reasons for us to maintain hope in the existence of adequate funding for the necessary anticyclical policies and for the appropriate public investment for the recovery of the country. We have been accustomed to discussing over the past few years the difficulties in the implementation of public investment, particularly that financed by European funds, but not just those. And we know that, in view of the size of the means available — whether in the framework of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, or in the next multiannual financial framework — and the short period agreed for its implementation, difficulties may worsen, with incalculable consequences for the country's recovery process. It was in this context that the Government proposed amendments to the Public Contracts Code and created a special regime, not in a profound change in the contract, but by introducing timely and timely mechanisms to prevent the economic and social recovery from being compromised, perhaps leading to the loss of financial resources. At the same time, and being aware of the need to deepen scrutiny and transparency, as the Secretary of State has already pointed out, in addition to the fight against corruption, new requirements have been introduced to ensure these commitments. It was in this context that the diploma was approved in Parliament and that it deserved the veto and the message of Mr President of the Republic and the greater attention of the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr President, following the analysis we have conducted, we believe that we should follow the concerns of the Head of State, until they correspond to the concerns of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, particularly in matters relating to effective control and monitoring by the Court of Auditors of all contracts concluded and their consequences, but also in deepening the incompatibilities of the members of the independent committee and their appointment. I conclude by saying that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is aware that legislative amendments do not arrive and that the quality of the institutions, of the resources available, in addition to the governance model, are decisive, but, as I said at the outset, it is very important that we do everything within our reach, in order to speed up and remove obstacles, so that recovery can count on all available means, but also on the rigor and transparency that the Portuguese want. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u89	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, has the floor for his minute of speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Once again, we are called upon to discuss this decree, subject to veto by the President of the Republic, echoing this veto the view that all parties, less the PS and PSD, have been transmitting, from the outset, that is, that the procedures envisaged do not ensure sufficient guarantees of legality. These problems arise from a view that the Socialist Party and its Government insist on printing on their proposals: for PS, there is simplification or transparency, as if they were two incompatible things in the same procedure. The Liberal Initiative disagrees with this vision, even because in many countries many liberals, simplification and transparency in procedures coexist successfully. Unfortunately, you can see why the Socialist Party thinks otherwise. It is that the reports prepared by the Court of Auditors on this exceptional regime of public procurement, adopted on the pretext of the pandemic, have destroyed public entities. In the last report, the Court of Auditors even wrote that they were detected, and I quote, « tenders / contracts published in the BASE Portal which have not been sent to the Court of Auditors and vice versa ». Half of the Court's recommendations could in fact only be a simple « it is recommended to the government to comply with the law ». Having a court to tell the government repeatedly to comply with the law is a sign of the state to which things have come. by saying that the PS does not believe that there can be a system that is, at the same time, simple and transparent, we are basically saying that the Socialist Party knows the Socialist Party too well.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u91	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The position of the NAP in this debate is the same as always. For us, especially in a crisis context like what we live in, a review of public procurement rules cannot serve to avoid increasing environmental requirements, to do greenwashing or to increase the risks of corruption in an area where such risks are already disproportionate. These defects have not been criticized by the President of the Republic and the PS and PSD take advantage of and leave everything to see if it goes unnoticed. From that point of view, the exemption schemes are maintained, which are exempt from public tender works up to EUR 750 000. The monitoring of the Court of Auditors is maintained. We are thus taking broad steps to reduce competition, with likely charges for the State, and to reduce transparency, enhancing the increase in cases of corruption. There were people who even spoke of this regime as an invitation to steal, but the central block did not want to know, and still does not want to know. We have also reduced the protection given to contracting public entities — to the State, it is understood — by means of the new rules that eliminate the requirement of security in contracts, which are so far compulsory. But the central block didn't want to know, and he still doesn't want to know. But then what did PS and PSD want to know? Just cosmetics. We insist on an independent committee whose usefulness is not noticeable, which does not realize how it will articulate with other existing structures. This committee, proposed by the PS, will pay a great deal to its members, who are comparable to first-degree leaders, half of whom very likelyboys or friends of the central bloc, without requiring them exclusiveness, without imposing strict rules of incompatibility and impediments and without ensuring the prevention of conflicts of interest. Are these the major measures to combat PS and PSD corruption? Although a solution is provided for in the event of a post-initial illegality in the performance of the contract and a counter-ordering regime for offenders, the PS, supported by the PSD, insists on a devaluation path of the Court of Auditors and its supervision. In accordance with what the proposal is, and knowing well the central block of the absence of human resources and technical means of the Court of Auditors, including adequate and modern information management systems, it will lead to ineffective supervision and the alleged very rigid penalties never come out of the paper. Finally, we are in a hurry to enter into force of the diploma, whether the Socialist Party wants it to be within 16 days, which will prevent the Court of Auditors from preparing and adapting at least to this new framework. Ladies and gentlemen. PS and PSD Members, what is the hurry? What is the hurry for this law to enter into force so quickly, if it is even known that the PRR is not even approved in Portugal and that the current assessment by the German Constitutional Court can even delay the proceedings? For all this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the NAP will vote against this agreement of the central bloc.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u93	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the discussion of the budget proposal for 2020, the Government pointed out the difficulties of the public procurement process as one of the obstacles to the implementation of public investment, far below the forecast. By the voice of several ministers, but also by Mr Prime Minister, it was called for a change in the legal framework of public procurement. This claim by the Government was, in some ways, supported by the experience of the implementation of the last revision of the Public Contract Code, with the existence of shortcomings and shortcomings which it urged to resolve. That is: the need to minimize the number of desert contests; the need to reduce pre-contractual litigation and the need to moderate discrepancies between administrative and tax courts and/or between judges and/or between first instance and appeal judgments. In March 2020, Portugal suffered the first impacts of the COVID-19, which forced the state of emergency, even now renewed, with effects on the economic activity and the lives of Portuguese people. The contraction of economic activity resulting from the impact of the COVID-19 imposed, and imposes, the adoption of measures to dynamize the Portuguese economy, assuming public investment a strategic role in its relaunch, in line with the options of the European Union, in particular its Recovery and Resilience Plan. The combination of the need to solve public procurement problems with the speedy implementation of our RPP led the Government to submit Bill No 41 / XIV / 1. the, in June 2020, with a view to simplifying and simplifying public procurement training procedures with a view to increasing the efficiency of public expenditure. The PSD, with regard to the Government's proposal, clearly and unequivocally expressed different perspectives. In particular, it argued that the scheme to be approved should be an exception and a transitional one; it argued that the final changes to be entered in the code would be later, after the evaluation and balance sheet were carried out; and it argued that an independent committee should be set up to monitor and evaluate the special and transitional arrangements. In October 2020, after discussion and voting on proposals submitted by the various political forces, with profound implications for the Government's proposal, the Assembly of the Republic approved the Bill No 41 / XIV / 1. the, in a comprehensive final vote, subsequently designated Decree No 95 / XIV. Consequently, and before the veto of His Excellency Mr. President of the Republic, the PSD reaffirms what it has always defended: it is available to collaborate with the other political forces and with the Government to introduce simplification changes in public procurement, but with greater transparency and supervision. In fact, this is in essence also the assessment by Mr. President of the Republic to Decree No 95 / XIV. And it is good to read the decree and, above all, the veto of Mr President of the Republic, when Mr President of the Republic says that the proposed regime aims to simplify and expedite procedures, with the main objective of facilitating the recruitment financed by European funds, and that the need for simplification and improvement of procedures is understandable and desirable in an exceptional context and within very limited time limits. But Mr President of the Republic also says that simplification and improvement are, as a counterpart, a concern about the control, even at a later date, by the Court of Auditors and its effects. The Assembly of the Republic, as a result of the presidential veto, will debate and will vote on the amendments which, we are convinced, will clarify and allow to overcome the existing doubts. The effect of a posteriori control by the Court of Auditors for a procurator and procurator is proposed in Article 17. o — a clear strengthening of the role of the Court of Auditors, which will become accessible to all the simplified direct adjustments in the meantime. Whether or not the Court of Auditors has human, technical or financial resources to do so will have to be the Government to provide such support to the Court of Auditors. But at least from the politicians of this House, this is compromised. With regard to the definition, within the current decree, of the composition and status of the members of the independent committee, of their mission and competences — Articles 18. it's 19. o — it is with zero remuneration, pro bono; they are not comparable, for remuneration purposes, to the categories which Mr PAN has just mentioned, with a clear strengthening of the role of the Assembly of the Republic in this field of autonomy of the members of the committee and of the committee itself. The PSD, in this regard, collaborated with the Government with loyalty and commitment to transform a proposal for the summer of 2020, wounded in death, given the strong criticisms, in a credible and adjusted law to the problems that it needs to solve, given the circumstances of the moment and on behalf of the national interest. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time for the government to show work, solve the PRR rags, a plan that does not like or convinces. The Government has at its disposal, with the approval of Decree No 95 / XIV, all instruments for the proper execution of the PRR. Apologies are over! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u95	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: The debate on the Public Contracts Code in 2020 was very extensive and raised — and for the Left Block continues to raise — very serious issues. At the time of the presentation of the Government's bill last year we said, and we reiterate, that there is a need for rapid access to Community funds, as a way of boosting relevant investments in the response to the crisis, of course, but this should be done by maintaining the necessary transparency and capacity for scrutiny of these decisions. And we recall the alerts and proposals that have come to the Assembly of the Republic, the Orders of Architects and Engineers, the Competition Authority, the Attorney-General of the Republic, the Court of Auditors, among many others. There were problems of deepening the opacity of processes that want to be transparent and several alerts about the potential increase in cases of corruption or similar. from the Left Block we do not overlook the importance of the Public Contracts Code and its complexity and therefore an amendment with a very specific purpose to this document, which, in fact, the government has admitted, at certain times, to be temporary, with the creation of a special regime, does not seem to be the correct way to have these debates. Specialty work was long, too. Almost all the parties in the Assembly of the Republic put their proposals on the table, where we also included ourselves, and we opted, on the side of the Left Block, for a logic of reversing the government's amendments that seriously affected matters of transparency, of rigour, because we believe that, at the moment of great demand as we live, it is not understandable that control procedures should be eased. Almost all the proposals for amendments to the Left Block were rejected, with the exception of the inclusion of criteria for promoting compliance with the Labour Code and collective labour conventions in the contracts made, which has always been a battle of many years. But, without prejudice to very specific changes in the speciality process, the final document continued, from our point of view, to maintain serious errors and from there our vote against. In fact, it is worth noting that the document was adopted only by the vote in favour of the Socialist Party. In December 2020, the veto of the President of the Republic came and was important to alert the need not to neglect the monitoring mechanisms and the need for clarification of the independent monitoring committee. However, this veto was not as far as it could and should, since it generally leaves all the logic of the changes intact and does not affect the changes that imposed changes in the recruitment, values and withdrawal of the ballot. Now, the PS is presenting amendments that aim to respond to this veto. With the exception of some proposals for details and drafting, we are still concerned about the Court of Auditors: contracts below a certain value will be referred to the Court of Auditors but without having to assess the Court of Auditors in advance by obligation. at the same time, contracts may take effect, even if irregularities or illegalities are detected during or after this same process. Therefore, in practice, it refers everything to successive controls, making it difficult, in fact, to what preventive supervision should be. And, in general, everything seems very confusing for a result that can very well get out completely fat. In addition, we are also concerned at the reservations which the Court of Auditors itself has made public on the proliferation of institutes and control mechanisms, insofar as this proliferation can in practice mean confusion and not verification of possible irregular situations. It therefore seems to us that it must be a warning to take into account and obviously it is also necessary to strengthen the Court of Auditors itself. Mr President, for all of this, and since we believe that monitoring and rigour mechanisms are still not guaranteed, we will continue to not generally follow these proposals, because we continue to think that the balance—and here is the key word—between the effectiveness of public investments and the safeguarding of public money, which is not easy, cannot be discarded in any way. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u97	I now give the floor to Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The proposal to amend the Public Contracts Code which was submitted by the Government in the Assembly of the Republic in June last year, replaced by the Government in July last year and negotiated between PS and PSD in October last year, with the resulting approval, was vetoed by the President of the Republic in December, having been presented here the message of this return without promulgation at its own time. We have, of course, carefully examined this message from the President of the Republic and the first reference which we want to underline in this speech is that the fundamental reasons which have led, and which lead, to the disagreement of the CFP with this diploma and this legislative process go far beyond the two issues raised on the basis of the presidential veto. The reasons for our disagreement and our vote against were substantial reasons, which remain in this framework, in view of the text under consideration. We are talking in particular about options such as special public procurement measures aimed at areas of special political priority — which Mr. Secretary of State has already referred to in his speech — discriminating regimes and exacerbating injustices, or the elimination of the current Article 27. o -A of the Code of Public Contracts concerning the prior consultation procedure, or of the amendments to the current Articles 43. o is 88. the scope of the contract procedure and the reduction of the contractual value for security requirement, or the amendment to the Code of Procedure in Administrative Courts, which, in decisions on the lifting of the suspensive effects of an appeal, replaces the current criterion of public interest by an amalgamation of all public and private interests in the presence. These matters, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government remain unchanged in the text under consideration, to the extent that either the veto of the President of the Republic or the amendments proposed by the PS Parliamentary Group address other issues other than those. We reaffirm here the warning that the CFP placed in the July 2020 debate: the establishment of special procedures for contracts related to Community financing is likely to create a double discrimination between entities which, having applied, receive funding and others that, without access to them, cannot only obtain funding as they are subject to a less agile process. The amendments tabled by the PS Parliamentary Group now do not answer the substantive questions, they bring in some specific respects some specific amendments—and our vote will be due to this assessment, where this happens—but we cannot but emphasise that the reasons for the disagreement of the CFP in the policy options that this diploma translates into the amendment to the Code of Public Contracts and thus to the Code of Procedure in Administrative Courts, as the result of Bill No 41 / XIV / 1. a. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u99	The next intervention will be by Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The code of public procurement and all the legal framework of public procurement are essential in a rule of law and in a market economy to assess the transparency, rigor, competition and combating the risks of corruption that exist, or not, in that State with that legislation. Therefore, we know that if the regime is simpler, obviously, the risks are lower, if the regime is more complex, the risks of failure to meet any of these objectives are increased, the processes are less transparent, are less stringent, respect the rules of competition and increase the risks of corruption. The same applies to the stability or instability of standards. If we have a stable regime, of course, it is easier for us to achieve these objectives. Therefore, according to this criterion, we have the first problem with this legislative amendment. It's nothing more, nothing less than the 17th. the version of the public contract code in 13 years, i.e. the average changes to the public contract code is greater than one change per year, which is, in any case, undesirable for such a legal regime. But all the evil was that. We know from the outset what the Court of Auditors, a fundamental entity in the legal system of public procurement, said about the amendments that were intended to be made in this area. And that must be said that, fortunately, the diploma that came out of the Assembly of the Republic was still much more moderate than what the Government and the Socialist Party wanted it to be. So, in spite of everything, there was a brake on the facilitation that the Socialist Party and the Government wanted to introduce. from our point of view, this brake was not enough, and I remember the criticisms of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors said that the Government's proposal introduced amendments which were, and I quote, « liable to contribute to the growth of illicit practices of conclusion, cartelization and even corruption in public procurement » and that « the activity of public procurement is a fertile and risk-added field for this type of illegal activity ». In the light of these warnings from the Court of Auditors, we see that what we have in the final diploma is not sufficiently aware of these concerns. The CDS presented proposals in the specialty. At the time, we understood that these proposals were important to realize what the Court of Auditors had warned of as risks, to realize the avoidance of these risks. There were, in fact, some substantial reductions, some of them — also to see the absurdity of the amendments proposed here and the very high values that came in the original proposal — but there were other important issues that were not changed. For example, as regards a public invitation to tender in which all proposals are excluded, it is said that if all are excluded by public interest, and we are going there, too, for some reason, must also take advantage of this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u101	Mr. João Almeida asked you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u102	I will finish, Mr. President. And what do you propose? That if it was more than 20 % higher than the highest value it could be awarded without even having to invoke the public service criterion. That's it. We would say, at a maximum of 5 %, because it allows a fifth of the value to be increased...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u104	... it is one of the examples that this facilitation does not go in any way in the sense that it should go and therefore the CDS continues to oppose this legal regime and this amendment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u105	For a second speech, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor, since the PS Parliamentary Group still has 2 minutes and 2 seconds. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have listened carefully to all the speeches and I would like to comment on some that have been made. Firstly, I would like to say to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo that the veto of the President of the Republic does not mention anything that you have said. I do not think you have read the message from Mr President of the Republic, because it does not say anything at all about what you have said. On the other hand, I would also like to say to you that the Group of the Socialist Party has made an effort during this debate — a long debate, as all the parties here have stressed — is precisely to reconcile a contract that has to be agile, with transparency and scrutiny. This has been an effort and this effort is reflected in the different proposals. It is reflected in the initial proposal and is now, again, in the attempt — which we hope will be approved — to accommodate what is the concerns of the President of the Republic. The same would be said to Mr André Silva, who mentioned here that there is a devaluation of the Court of Auditors. Nor do I know what you mean by the Court of Auditors'devaluation of the proposals put forward by the Socialist Party. On the contrary, there is an appreciation of the Court of Auditors and an effort to follow these matters. In addition, there is also no understanding of the opposition to the questions of the independent committee because I cannot understand how Mr André Silva wants to strengthen supervision without an independent committee, still appointed by the Assembly of the Republic. Finally, there is a great confusion in the head of Mr André Silva and apparently also in the head of Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo about what is at stake. As for Mr Bruno Dias, these proposals do not really respond to the concerns of the CFP, it is true that they respond to the concerns of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u107	That's it! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u108	In fact, the concerns of the PCP go far beyond those that are here. It is of essence, i.e. it does not agree with this issue of the special regime. So we are not in this debate, we are in another debate, and I think Mr Bruno Dias understands that. With regard to what Mr. Jorge Mendes said, since the first hour we made an effort and said in the Assembly of the Republic that we were available for debate, debate and to accommodate all the proposals and positions of all parties, because we considered it essential that a broad consensus of the Assembly of the Republic should be reached so that this diploma should solve a problem that is identified, which are...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u109	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u110	I'm done now, Mr. President. ... the obstacles that public procurement has to carry out public investment. This seems obvious and consensual, I think, in this House, and we did it. I should like to conclude by saying that in the initial proposal, proposals were made by all parties, precisely in order to ensure that consensus.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u112	Unfortunately, the parties did not have the same reading and did not contribute to there being a public contract that would meet the great challenges that the country has in the question of the recovery of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u113	Mr André Silva intends to intervene for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u114	On the conduct of the work, Mr President. I wanted to ask for the distribution of documents.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u115	Please speak, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Member of the Social Democratic Party and the Member of the Socialist Party came here to deny what I said in the rostrum and wanted Article 18(6) to be distributed. the proposal for the amendment of the Socialist Party, which entered...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u117	All right. The honourable Member will arrive at the Bureau...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u118	... and which reads as follows : « The members of the independent committee shall be equal to the superior leader of 1. the degree of remuneration”.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u119	Mr André Silva, thank you very much. It will do well to bring to the Bureau this legal provision, which is in the public domain, but nevertheless the Bureau, with all the cooperation with the parliamentary work, will be able to distribute it and certainly the Members. Members will be able to read this provision. Mr Bruno Dias also spoke for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS, with a great spirit of democratic openness, responded to the criticisms of the CFP, saying that they are not in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u121	Not now!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u122	Mr President, they are not in this debate but should be. They are not in this debate but continue to answer—and the government will surely be able to answer now — a very simple question: why is this less complexity, more simplicity, without removing the vote, necessary only for projects with Community funding? Is it only necessary for projects in the context of the so-called decentralization, of the deresponsibility of the State to the authorities? Is it necessary only for certain priority areas, so considered by the PS government, and for the rest of the country's life, no longer needed? Oh, my God! These issues are, in fact, substantial and the PS Member and the other PSD Members felt that they were not in this debate. But it is a debate that is still necessary, including a debate that is still lacking, about the exchange of public interest as a criterion by a more indefinite criterion of weighing all public and private claims in the presence.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u123	Mr Bruno Dias, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u124	I will finish, Mr. President. That is why I say that those who are not in this debate should be. That's too bad! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u125	On behalf of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers André Caldas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I did not think to use the floor, but I do not refuse to reply to the direct request made by Mr Bruno Dias to me, even because of the respect that Mr deserves me. Mr President, it is clear that it adapts its reading of the proposal to the construction of the narrative which is appropriate for Parliamentary rhetoric, because what the Government has presented here was, on the one hand, a set of priorities which have a regime, but it does not cease to present the other simplification statements which are now being incorporated into the code, and which also deserve a circumstantial disagreement between the Social Democratic Party and other parties, which respond to what should be the general rule of public procurement in matters which are perhaps not priority. And it was not the Government, this House that followed this proposal, which came to be approved by this House. This is the explanation: there are priorities that must have one regime, there are other contracting matters that must have another regime, as a rule. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u127	We are thus finishing this point on our agenda. We congratulate Mr. Secretary of State André Caldas and move on to the last point of our agenda today, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 7 / XIV / 1. a ( Juliet Areal and Silva Calvet da Costa et al.) — Traps NO: to prohibit the manufacture, possession and sale of trappings for birds, together with the Bills No. 625 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Promotes the prohibition of the manufacture, possession, use and sale of devices intended to capture wild birds not subject to kinetic exploitation and 651 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Determines the prohibition on the manufacture, sale, purchase, use and import of traps and other devices used for the illegal capture of wild birds, in general, and with Resolution Projects Nos 863 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures aimed at the protection of non-cinegetic wild birds and 994 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Protection of non-cinegetic wild birds by strengthening monitoring, sensitization and monitoring measures. To begin this debate, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition entitled « Traps NO: to prohibit the manufacture, possession and sale of bird traps» alerts us to the problem of illegal capture of birds, an initiative which the NAP welcomes. In Portugal, the capture of non-cinegetic wild birds for consumption or captivity is an illegal practice, but remains quite active. in a recent study by SPEA ( Portuguese Society for the Birds Study ), it was estimated that about 40 000 birds are dead to be used in gastronomy and 10,000 are captured for captivity. This activity is difficult to detect and investigate, since the means used for its capture are not prohibited, being found for sale in specialist shops and on the Internet. The main traps used are the nets, which are also used in the timing, as a method of research for monitoring species and habitats; the ribs or laws, which consist of a wire trap where an bait is placed, causing the immediate death of birds; the viscous, a sticky material that binds the bird to the equipment and cages, where other birds are used as a call. According to the study by SPEA, the most captured species are the peassilgos, tentilhos, redfish, the peas-peito-ruivo pisco and the tutuinegra-de-barret-preto, and most of them are used in gastronomy, such as « fried birds», despite being illegal slaughter or captive of wild birds. These species are not subject to kinetic exploitation, they are protected by the Birds Directive, being prohibited from catching live or dead specimens, as well as nests and eggs. The capture of these species has a great impact on ecosystems, since being mostly insectivorous, they contribute to the reduction of pests and their absence may lead to an intensification in the use of phytopharmaceuticals in agricultural crops, resulting in increased soil and water contamination. It should also be noted that illegal catch of these species compromises the survival of other species that feed on these species, including birds of prey. The Convention on Migratory Species of Wild Fauna (CMS) and the Bern Convention have concluded that this practice is still common in the Mediterranean countries and that countries such as Portugal are not taking due action for the conservation of species. Hunting is one of the activities responsible for loss of biodiversity, a fact recognised by the Government, which, through its National Strategy for Conservation of Nature and Biodiversity 2030, approved by the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 55 / 2018 of 7 May, clearly refers not only to the need to halt the loss of biodiversity in the country as the need to develop efforts and prioritize technical and human resources for the preservation of species and their habitats. What we are debating today is not a problem concerning regulated kinetic activity but an illegal hunting practice of birds that has to be combated. It is therefore essential to prohibit the manufacture, possession and sale of devices that serve only for the capture of wild birds not subject to the exploitation of kinetics, in physical stores and on the Internet, thus ensuring national commitment and effort to the conservation of nature, environmental sustainability and the right to life and physical integrity of these animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u129	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens Ecologist Party has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law that The Greens present determines the prohibition of the manufacture, sale, purchase, use and import of traps and other devices used for the illegal capture of wild birds. In the National Strategy for Conservation of Nature and Biodiversity 2030, adopted by the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 55 / 2018 of 7 May, it is clear the need to curb the loss of biodiversity in the country and to develop efforts and prioritize technical and human resources for the preservation of species and their habitats. Despite the many alerts, studies, legislation in force and the global awareness that this planet is only one, that all living beings are interconnected and that ecological balance is fundamental to the survival of the human species and its quality of life, the loss of biodiversity, at global level and in Portugal, occurs at a worrying pace. Even with all these warnings and scientific evidence and with all the national and international campaigns that have been carried out, about the need for habitat protection and their ecosystems, we continue to witness actions, attacks and systematic violations of laws, which have also contributed to the decline in biodiversity, that avifauna is no exception. Several factors contribute to this loss of biodiversity, such as habitat destruction, land use alteration, misuse of phytosanitaries, reduced food availability, expansion of the area of distribution of exotic species, which compete with natives, and poaching among many others. And within the poaching and illegal, the use of artifacts and techniques, which are often used and which constitute a threat to the kinetic species and to many other species of birds, whose hunting is prohibited. We are talking about the use of spring traps, commonly referred to as ribs, lizards or mice, glue for the living capture of birds, longer-sized spring traps, vertical nets for the capture of birds, among many others. Despite the prohibition of the use of these devices in the illegal hunting or catching of animal species, it is not prohibited to sell, manufacture, purchase, marketing or import, which, together with the difficulty of making permanent and comprehensive surveillance and the chronic lack of material and human resources for this function, allows for continued witnessing of acts of hunting and stealing of animals on these routes, of which the birds are the main target group. According to the Portuguese Society for the Birds Study in Portugal, illegal catch of 32 000 to 130 000 wild birds each year is estimated, which calls into question the conservation of these species, with difficult impacts to assess. It is noted that many of the most affected species are birds that feed on insects and that their disappearance can contribute to the increase in agricultural pests. What we are proposing today, welcoming the more than 4000 citizens who have supported the petition "Non: to prohibit the manufacture, possession and sale of birds traps", which is accompanied by the various initiatives, is the development of legislation that can contribute to putting an end to the illegal capture of wild birds and which contributes to the preservation of species.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u131	You now have the floor to Mrs Maria Manuel Rola from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would also like to begin by congratulating the petitioners, the more than 4000 petitioners, who bring this question here again this afternoon. Catching, slaughtering or detention of non-cinegetic wild birds are illegal practices in Portugal. This ban has not prevented the extermination and imprisonment of tens of thousands of birds every year. It is the Portuguese Society for the Birds Study that estimates the slaughter of at least 40 000 wild birds and the capture of another 10 000 in cages. The law provides for the application of fines for cases of capture, slaughter or detention in captivity, but they are rarely applied. Birds continue to be captured and slaughtered for sale and consumption or to be illegally marketed, mainly online, in Facebook groups. The 2014 SPEA study further notes that the most captured and marketed species are the paintsilgo, the tintilho, the redish, the lugre and the call it, and surround about 8,000 birds. For consumption, we speak annually between 8500 and 21 000 touinegras de barrete-preto and between 7500 and 19 000 pesito-ruivo. In the birds of prey, the catch of at least 164 round-wing eagles, 118 common-breeders, 44 black-hundred and 17 foot-tailed eagles stand out. These estimates, My Lords, are conservative and represent crimes against wild life that urgently need to be eradicated. On the online platforms, between January 2015 and March 2016, SPEA accounted for 4331 wild birds for sale: small greenlings, peassilgos, crows and claws, but also eagles, hawks and mochos, animals that can only be marketed by breeders certified by the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests ( IUCF ). This is, My Lords and Ladies, the image of the totally ineffective protection of non-cinegetic wild birds and that stems from the ease of access to means and forms used exclusively for the capture or slaughter of these birds. It is legal to possess, use and sell spring and visgo traps (a type of artisanal glue that holds the birds for feathers) and the catch of the ant is also a practice used as bait for birds. The use and marketing of vertical networks, commonly designated by invisible networks, for small birds is also permitted. contrary to what is sometimes propagated, these networks are not conducive to agriculture, because their meshage is so thin that it makes them inadequate for the protection of agricultural crops against climatic phenomena and predatory animals. The monitoring of illegal catches, slaughter or captive of wild birds is incipient in the national territory, preventing the effective protection of these animals. It is necessary to strengthen the body of workers and the means of the competent authorities, it is also necessary to promote extended campaigns to raise awareness of the population, but it is essential that those materials cannot, in fact, be acquired or sold, as they emit a wrong signal and allow themselves to be marketed something that cannot be used. in a context of accelerated loss of biodiversity in the country, caused by the ecological and climate crisis, concrete actions and reliable information are needed for the protection of wild birds. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to remind you that we have already discussed this matter on 10 December 2020, with regard to two projects proposing precisely what the draft resolution of the Left Block now reaffirms and that this petition is required. We know that we cannot represent this bill, but we also know that the PSD position, for example, has already changed. We well appreciate that passing from the vote against to the presentation of a draft resolution of something that could already be appreciated, in the specialty, or published, if they had approved the project of the Left Block. It is important that concrete progress is now achieved. It's not yet the end of the world, it's just a little late. We hope that it will not be too late for so many other measures that they so often reject and that they could in fact protect biodiversity and rural ecosystems. of our part, we do not give up presenting, for the protection of birds, animals and ecosystems. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u133	Mr João Marques, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I begin my speech by congratulating and thanking the petitioners for the presentation of Petition No 7 / XIV / 1. the, entitled « Traps NO: prohibit the manufacture, possession and sale of bird traps », with 4327 signatures, and alerting to the vulnerabilities existing in the regulation and control of this problem. In fact, the populations of wild birds face various threats, in addition to the loss of habitats, as a result of land use transformations, but a more direct threat is linked to the slaughter and capture of these birds. Despite being banned by law for a long time, it continues to practice throughout the country, contributing to the decline of the population of various species. The Portuguese Society for the Birds Study, the SPEA, estimates that more than 40 000 of these birds are killed annually and imprisoned more than 10 000. However, in a context where the protection of biodiversity is assumed as a concern of all of us, it is necessary to develop a more effective fight against this problem. It is that, despite the prohibition of slaughter, capture and arrest of these birds, offenders can invariably escape from the supervisory authorities in full condition that they may be punished for this illegal practice. in these illegal activities are used artifacts such as: spring traps, commonly designated by ribs or spar; glue, commonly designated by visgo; larger traps, used for catching prey birds; vertical networks, commonly called invisible networks; or wings ants, which are used as bait. thus, every day, hundreds of birds, such as paintssilgoes, tendons, paints and others, end up imprisoned in cages or in the dish, in restaurants or cafes. Since practices are not selective, birds are caught with no value or commercial and/or gastronomic interest, ending up being abandoned in nature with serious or even dead wounds. This problem affects small birds, but also birds of prey with various protective statutes. It should be noted that these practices have nothing to do with the protection of agricultural crops, for any damage caused by these birds. in this context, there is legislation, such as Decree-Law No 140 / 99, which defines exceptional regimes, in which, by licensing by the ICNF, acts aimed at such protection may be allowed, in particular when excess population occurs and provided there are no other alternatives. This possibility of safeguarding and reconciling agricultural activity with the protection of wild species has nothing to do with the use of such tools, as they do not have an objective purpose of deterring or protecting agricultural crops. The protection networks of agricultural crops, permitted in the cases referred to above, are completely different from the invisible networks, as they protect the physical integrity of birds without jeopardizing them. And these invisible networks, when used for scientific purposes, such as bird listing, made for several studies, or larger traps, when used in the kinetic activity, are properly framed by Decree-Law No 140 / 99, already referred to, and by the law of hunting itself, as important for the regulation of the predator population, being necessary procedures for the balance of ecosystems, even for non-cinegetic species. The illegal capture data submitted by SPEA are 2014, and are certainly out of date. The review of the Red Paper on Birds of Portugal, financed by the PO SEUR ( Operational Programme for Sustainability and Efficiency in the Use of Resources ), may soon help to better understand the pressures and threats on wild bird populations, and the need to strengthen the specific monitoring of this problem is needed in order to identify new solutions to combat this illegal phenomenon. On the other hand, it is necessary to strengthen measures to raise awareness of the need for protection of these species and in this respect little or nothing has been done by the Government. Banir illegal practices is essential to create value based on ecosystems and the kinetic activity itself benefits from habitats where biological diversity is higher. The PSD therefore believes that the Government should develop a monitoring plan to address the problem of illegal and non-cinegetic catches of wild birds with a view to adopting new measures that are more effective in combating these attitudes. It should also create a communication and environmental awareness campaign focused on this problem, from the school communities, and provide information on existing prohibitions, contacts for complaints and other elements that can help to reverse this situation. It should also intensify the monitoring and enforcement of penalties on the use of these traps, presenting visible and public results that may be deterrents to these illicit activities. Finally, the PSD monitors the concerns of the petitioners regarding the capture of non-cinegetic wild birds and supports greater control of the use of the artifacts used in their capture for commercial or gastronomic purposes, always safeguarding such scientific and agricultural and cinegetic aspects. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u135	Mr Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners, who are approximately 4300, of the petition entitled « Traps NO: to prohibit manufacture, possession and sale of bird traps ». The petitioners come to draw attention to the problem of catching birds, often involving their death, which leads several populations of non-cinegetic wild birds to see their existence threatened. That is to say, in addition to the loss of its natural habitat, which is already a problem with which these species are debating themselves, also illegal capture — because it is illegal to capture them — it threatens their existence. Now, this is the first thing to highlight: we are talking about an activity that is already illegal today. What is the solution that petitioners come to propose and that is, in fact, subscribed to by various projects? Given that activity is prohibited, but in practice there is no monitoring of this prohibition, what they have come to propose is that the arrest of the way this capture activity is done, that is, the traps and the viscous—that is, let us say, the natural tail spread to try to arrest the birds. Now, from the point of view of the idea, it seems to me to have some meaning and I see no problem in prohibiting the possession of certain devices that serve only for an activity that is forbidden, that is to say, its possession is also prohibited. from the point of view of principle, I see no problem. What is the only problem that these projects do not safeguard, but what do I think is possible to be safeguarded, in the field of expertise? It is that there is the possibility that some of these artifacts, whether the traps, be the tail itself, be used for activities other than those prohibited, i.e. for other species other than those. From this point of view, until they are used, especially in the protection of agriculture, I do not see that the mere possession of these devices can be prohibited. If there is availability to solve this problem, create a way of excluding what is already permitted in the law and do not transform allowed activities into prohibited activities due to the prohibition of the arrest of traps, we will have an opening for this. If it is not possible, then it will be more difficult. In this regard, for example, all projects are very generic, because they also prohibit what they call "generalist traps", i.e. traps that are often used for catching species that do not even have anything to do with birds. Therefore, as long as this issue is safeguarded and there is such care, we will have no problem with these projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u137	Mr João Dias of the CFP now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the petitioners who have brought to this House a petition that seeks to prohibit the manufacture, production, possession and sale of bird traps, which is accompanied, by drag, by two draft laws and two draft resolutions. The CFP, in this area of biodiversity conservation, accompanies the concerns that are fundamentally raised by the four initiatives. In other words, there has been a need to stop biodiversity loss and implement measures aimed mainly at developing all efforts to compatible and preserve species and their habitats and, in particular, birds, that we are talking about today. However, there has been — still in this debate — very discrepant data and numbers, ranging from 10 000 to 130 000 birds caught, which means inconsistencies in the data. However, what we would like to ask is why the identification of this large number of catches is not accompanied by the same number of cars and fines, that is, because supervision does not happen, particularly as regards the responsibility and role of nature guards. Of course, this will be a problem to be solved, strengthening the means and conditions for monitoring, but it is also important to evaluate the factors that can contribute decisively to biodiversity loss. In fact, we would be very simplistic if we considered that we could solve the problem of bird-related biodiversity loss only by banning what is already forbidden. That is to say, this ban already exists and, on the other hand, there is also a ban on what does not exist, because in Portugal this type of instruments and appliances are not produced, which are essentially imported. One of the problems and factors has to do with the increase in superintensive monoculture. If there is anything harmful to biodiversity, it has been the intensive and superintensive monoculture, which has led to the reduction of the areas of production of cereals and oilseeds, which serve as food for these birds, and mainly insects, which are also food for those animals. One of the problems most identified as responsible for the great mortality of birds is the nocturnal harvest of olive oil. This is an area in which we also have responsibility and we must intervene to reduce its effect on biodiversity. There is also the need to value small agriculture, family farming, which effectively promotes cultural diversity, food and biodiversity, with birds in their environment and habitat. We must not forget yet a problem that is growing, not only in the rural world but also in urban areas, and that has to do with species of a strong invasive character. It is only to go to any public garden to watch the presence of invasive exotic animals, for which action must be taken. These animals must be caught with traps that allow live catch, and therefore we cannot prohibit the existence and use of such traps, which are fundamental and necessary. These animals compete with native species by food and by areas of nesting and also transport diseases to those species, and therefore it is important that the possibility of catching and controlling these species is not eliminated, because only with the use of these instruments is possible to control these populations. Finally, Mr President, I would say that the problem with traps is not a matter of prohibition, but of regulation, which is the way for none of the drafts — much less the draft laws — to point out, so the CFP will not be able to follow these bills.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u139	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr José Manuel Carpinteira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition « Armadillas NO», with more than 4300 signatures, which presents Juliet Calvet of Costa as first subscriber, aims to prohibit the manufacture, possession and sale of traps intended for the capture of wild birds. In particular, the petitioners recommend the prohibition of the manufacture, possession and sale of spring traps intended for the capture of small birds, commonly referred to as ‘coastals’ or ‘sparrelas’ ; of the glue commonly referred to as ‘ visgo’ ; and of vertical bird catch nets, referred to as ‘invisible nets’, except when duly authorised, in particular for scientific purposes. They refer to the petitioners who, despite the capture of non-cinegetic wild birds that have been prohibited by law for more than 20 years, catch and intentional slaughter of birds remain in high numbers, which is largely due to the total availability of these traps. The Portuguese Society for the Birds Study has also been alerted to the illegal capture of tens of thousands of birds per year, which calls into question the conservation of these species, with difficult impacts to assess. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the National Strategy for Conservation of Nature and Biodiversity 2030, adopted by the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 55 / 2018, is clear the need to halt the loss of biodiversity in the country and to develop efforts, with technical and human means, to preserve species and their habitats. Since the protection of biodiversity is a concern of our society, it is important to develop a more effective fight against this problem, which has several dimensions. A direct threat is linked to the capture of these birds, which, despite being banned since 1999, continues to be practiced illegally throughout the country, contributing to the decline of the population of various species that feed on insects, and their disappearance can contribute to the increase in agricultural pests. With regard to legitimate concerns regarding the protection of agricultural crops from damage caused by wild birds, the legislation in force defines an exceptional regime, in which, by licence from the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests, acts such as capture and slaughter of birds may be allowed, provided there is no satisfactory alternative. This legal safeguard of the harmonisation of agricultural activity with the protection of wild birds is very relevant and must always be ensured, but is often surrounded by catch traps, which do not aim to create a barrier to the protection of agricultural crops, but consist of illegal hunting. Ending illegal hunting practices is a way of valuing the territory, fundamental to creating value based on ecosystems. In view of the fact that the largest quotas for migratory birds are passed in Portugal, it is essential to enable a more effective fight against illegal catches of birds. It is therefore necessary to step up the supervision by the competent authorities of the possession and use of catch traps of non-cinegetic wild birds. It is essential that the Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests and the Nature and Environment Protection Service of the GNR ( Republican National Guard) may develop more articulated efforts aimed at this problem. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the projects we are discussing today deserve us a favourable appreciation of their underlying principles, but we believe that the publication of more diplomas would contribute to the multiplication of legislative pieces. For the resolution of this very specific issue, it seems more appropriate for us to incorporate this prohibition by amending existing diplomas on this subject. in this context, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group agrees with the recommendations for strengthening communication and environmental awareness campaigns and drawing up a plan for monitoring wild birds and, more importantly, considering the possibility of assessing the prohibition of manufacture and possession of artifacts that serve only for the capture of wild birds not subject to kinetic exploitation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u141	For a short speech, which is still available for 11 seconds, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u142	Mr President, yes, it will be a very short intervention, just to make it clear that we have had a change of positions of value since 10 December. Less than six months ago, PS and PSD voted against a left block bill, although now they seem to have some openness regarding the value of the petitioners' claims.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u143	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u144	Finally, in the last few seconds, I would like to say that, in France, the visgo capture method has now been banned in March. As such, it seems essential that we also move forward in this direction and point out the difference between the initiatives being brought down to the Committee on the Environment or to the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u145	For an intervention also short, although a little longer than the latter, Mr André Silva has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u146	Mr President, I think that no one would understand and people would be shocked if, today in this Parliament, someone were to defend that asbestos-based materials should be banned, but that we could continue to produce them and import them. The problem is regulation, the problem is supervision! With regard to asbestos production, it would be all right, regardless of asbestos would have no problem, but using asbestos would be prohibited! So what would we have to do? We'd have to check it out! Regarding the position of the PCP, we already know and are already used, but I am shocked at the position of the Socialist Party, which does not accompany the progressive parties, such as the Left Block, the PSD and the CDS, in this matter. [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]] What's in issue, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party — it is incredible to hear them talk about it! — it is the prohibition of artifacts whose sole aim and purpose is the capture of non-cinegetic animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u147	Mr President, I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u148	This has nothing to do with, as Mrs. Deputy of the CDS said, unsuspecting in this matter, with kinetic or agricultural activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u149	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u150	And, yes, Mrs. CDS and Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, we are available to, as a specialist, safeguard the necessary exceptions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u151	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u152	It is therefore incomprehensible that the Socialist Party does not follow these initiatives!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u153	With this speech by Mr André Silva, we are concluding this last item on our agenda. Before informing you about the agenda of our tomorrow session, you have the floor of Mr. Secretary of the Diogo Leon Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. In view of the relationship between Mr. Members of Parliament present by videoconference, it is said that Mrs Sara Madruga of the Costa, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira, was present through this medium. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-14.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would inform you, then, that tomorrow we will initiate the practice of the two plenary sessions per week. There will therefore be a plenary session tomorrow at 3 p.m. with four items on the agenda, in addition to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. The first point is the discussion of a set of initiatives: Bill No. 250 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Consecrates crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of a person unable to resist as a public crime ( the forty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code), 720 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Measures to protect victims of domestic violence within the framework of labour, social security and housing rights (no amendment to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of their victims, approved by Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 and the second amendment to the scheme to grant compensation to victims of violent crimes and domestic violence, approved by Law No 104 / 2009 of 14 September ) and 701 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Consecrates crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of a person unable to resist as public crimes, which will be discussed in general; Resolution Projects Nos. 951 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Measures to prevent and combat domestic violence and 1058 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 62 / 2019 and ensure the adoption of a code of conduct adapted to the Istanbul Convention, with a view to providing adequate news coverage of cases of domestic violence and preventing an expected contagion effect; Application No 8 / XIV / 1. a ( Collective Women of Braga ) — Stop killing us; and also, in general, Law Projects No. 648 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the Penal Code, including economic or heritage violence in domestic violence crime, in respect of the Istanbul Convention, 702 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the Penal Code, assigning the nature of public crime to crimes against sexual freedom and self-determination, 768 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates the nature of public crimes of threats and coercion crimes, adapting them to the crime of domestic violence ( fifty-third amendment to the Criminal Code), 771 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Consecrates the public nature of the crimes of rape, sexual coercion, sexual fraud, sexual abuse of a person unable to resist and artificial procreation and extends the limitation of crimes against the sexual freedom and self-determination of minors and the crime of female genital mutilation by amending the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, and 772 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — An amendment to the Criminal Code is made, assigning the nature of public crime to crimes of sexual coercion, rape and sexual abuse of a person unable to resist, ensuring compliance with the Convention of the Council of Europe for the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence ( Istanbul Convention ). The second point is the discussion of draft resolutions Nos 831 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the increase in treatment participation in cancer patients, and 935 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strategic approach and urgent measures to combat cancer. The third point consists in the general debate of Bill Nos 752 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Altera o Decree-Law No 22 - D / 2021, of March 22, enabling examination of improvement of internal grade in secondary school, 747 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Extension of exceptional and temporary measures to safeguard the rights of higher education students, 726 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Support measures for public higher education students, 760 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Alter the Decree-Law No. 22 - D / 2021 of March 22, enabling students to perform examination of improvement of internal grade in secondary school, 769 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amends Decree-Law No 10 - B / 2021 of 4 February in its current wording, in order to allow students to carry out national tests for the purpose of improving the final classification, and 774 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — Alter the Decree-Law No 22 - D / 2021 of 22 March, eliminating the failure to perform the final tests of basic education of 9. the year of schooling and final national exams, when carried out by internal students, for the purposes of approval of disciplines and completion of secondary education and eliminating the exemption from the completion of final cycle tests, in cases where their completion is only intended for the purposes of further study. Finally, the fourth point consists in the general debate of Bill Nos 700 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Extends the deadline for cleaning fuel management networks in forest areas and prevents the fines provided for in Decree-Law No 124 / 2006 of 28 June from being doubled, 773 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Defines a temporary contingency regime for networks of secondary fuel management bands, and 775 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Training of authorities and review of criteria for fuel management. Then we will follow the Rules of Procedure. I thank everyone for your cooperation in this session and I wish you to continue in a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 40 minutes.]]
