ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let's start our plenary meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I request that the gallery doors be opened. Before we enter the agenda itself, I would like to say to the honourable Members and to the Members. Members who, following the procedural incidents in the plenary session last Friday, especially during the legislative votes, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, whom I thank, promoted a meeting with the services in which other Secretaries of the Bureau participated, with the aim of ascertaining the causes of the success and, most importantly, finding ways to overcome the difficulties that we all felt at that meeting, especially the Bureau, as they could understand, especially by voting on very sensitive matters. Having identified the technical problems of both the quorum registration and the electronic vote, I am told that they are solved. With regard to other operating deficiencies, immediate implementation measures have been determined by the Bureau to prevent similar situations from happening again, in the best interests of Parliament and its services, whose dedication and competence I have always publicly highlighted. These guarantees do not, of course, mean that an exhaustive audit of the entire computer system of the Plenary is not carried out, which has already begun and whose results will soon lead to the knowledge of all. Thank you very much. Let us therefore enter the first item on the agenda, whose fixation was made by the Liberal Initiative, with the joint discussion, in general, of the Bills Nos 920 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Revokes the adept card by non-discrimination and stigmatization of citizens in sports premises ( Fourth amendment to Law No 39 / 2009 of 30 July ), 1012 / XIV/ 3. a ( PCP ) — The fourth amendment is made to Law No 39 / 2009 of 30 July, removing the card from the holder and the areas with special conditions for access and stay of followers, and 1016 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH) — The fourth amendment is made to Law No 39 / 2009 of 30 July, and by the repeal of Ordinance No 159 / 2020 of 26 June, which lays down the applicable rules on the abbreviated designation of the applicant. First, however, I will give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, who has several important information to pass on to you. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u2	Good afternoon to all and to all. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Bill No 118 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ), which falls to 5. the Commission and the Proposals for Resolution No 34 / XIV/ 3. a ( GOV ) and 35 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ), which fall to 2. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr. President, Bills No. 1012 / XIV / 3. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1013 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1014 / XIV/ 3. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1015 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 1016 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1017 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission. Finally, they entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects Nos. 1499 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 1500 / XIV/ 3. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1501 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1502 / XIV/ 3. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 1503 / XIV/ 3. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u3	Thank you, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. We will then enter the first item on our agenda and, to open the debate, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today, not to talk about football, but to talk about freedom. We're here today to put an end to this weird thing that's the adept's card. We are here to say 'no' to the card. To say "no" to the card is important. It is important to resist all the limitations, small or large, that the State wants to impose on our individual freedoms. They are limitations always decreed supposedly for our good, for our safety, for our well-being. But let us not be deceived: this legislation on the membership card limits fundamental people's rights, limits their freedom to access certain areas of the sports halls, limits the age of those accessing these areas and prevents family groups or friends from seeing the games together. To say 'no' to the card is to combat discrimination between followers. What this card does is actually discriminate people and stigmatize certain groups of citizens. It is unacceptable that the State, which should be concerned about preserving the principle of presumption of innocence, finds it normal in this law to assume the presumption of guilt. To say 'no' to the card is also urgent. The sports season is already in the middle and the empty benches that we have seen in all stages are not only an attestation to the ineffectiveness of the measure, they are also an attack on the financial sustainability of the clubs, especially the smaller ones, who, after two dramatic periods, pass well without this rumbe in their finances. To say 'no' to the card is to correct what does not work, nor will it work in combating violence in sport. Just look at what has happened in all countries that have tried similar solutions: Belgium, Poland, Croatia, Hungary and Cyprus have returned; Italy and Turkey are doing so; and Denmark and the United Kingdom have thought about the idea in the past and have chosen not to move forward. Everyone realized it didn't work. The government has decided to ignore all these examples — today, you still don't know why. To realize that the adepto card does not work, it would suffice to look at empty benches in stadiums; it would be sufficient to know that there are clubs asking for a reduction in the lot of so-called'special access conditions' because they realized that they will continue empty; it would suffice to pay attention to the unanimous opposition of clubs, of SAD (Sociedades Anonymous Sports) and of followers' organizations (even yesterday, 31 followers' organizations took a joint position against the adepto card) and also public opinion, in general. Until always the titubian League of Clubs is shown against the card. No one defends this law, but the government thinks he's right. The problem of violence, racism and xenophobia in sport is real and must be fought. But any person of common sense realizes that the most violent elements, sometimes with extra-sport motivations, never, but never, will adhere to the adept's card, will continue to go to stadiums, scattered between the remaining assistance, thus contributing to the impossibility of any previous prevention or subsequent identification. This card doesn't just solve the problem, like it gets worse. Not saying 'no' to the card is not taking the Constitution seriously. It is that if we take seriously the principle of equality in Article 13. the principle of proportionality of Article 18. the, if we take seriously the freedom of association of Article 46. the, then, we can't take this adept card seriously. Legal aberration goes further: the government has introduced, by door, an administrative diploma, a limitation on access to children under 16 years of age. In Portugal, in 2021, we have constitutional rights to be limited by door—it is unacceptable! To say ‘no’ to the card is to avoid ridicule. This law provides that, in order to access certain areas of the enclosures, nothing more is needed than up to four roles: the game ticket, the citizen card, the partner card and the adept card. I have already said that in this House, this government has managed to turn the game into a football game into a more unpleasant experience than a going to a financial distribution. Just the PS, to get the taste of what should be a pleasure. Ridiculous is also the role of the Authority for Prevention and Combating Violence in Sport ( APCVD ). Is it for exactly what? In addition to installing PS boys in the home city of the Secretary of State, APCVD charges the fee — it is PS's love at the rates! — issuing the card and carrying out campaigns that no one remembers. The rest is the exercise of functions that should not compete with him. The inspection and supervisory functions are the responsibility of the police authorities, while the sanctioning functions should compete with the judicial authorities. APCVD has competences that it should not have, and yet it still extravagants them. The President shall, for example, confess that the purpose of the certificate is to control the locks and facilitate the identification of offenders. In other words, the State is unable to do its role as a guarantor of public security and the solution it finds is to restrict the freedom of certain citizens, assuming their guilt, discriminating and stigmatizing. The state fails and the payer is the citizen. It is this kind of state prepotency that the Liberal Initiative will never accept. In the face of all this, it is possible to say that in the championship of the argument, the « no» to the card wins for 15 - 0. By maintaining the football metaphor, this law cannot move forward or move on to the next stage. This law can only be undermined, in fact, this law can only be eliminated. The Liberal Initiative, which was not in Parliament at the time of the adoption of this law, has always expressed its frontal opposition to it. Other parties have now agreed on the need for revocation and have also taken initiatives. They are welcome because « better late than ever », but they do not contain us to provide reasons for this decision not to be taken before Parliament's dissolution. In order for the process to be rapid, we have chosen, Liberal Initiative, to present only a proposal for the repeal of two rules of Law No 39 / 2009 of 30 July, and Ordinance No 159 / 2020 of 26 June, without altering other important aspects of this legislation and which we consider to be wrong. We will certainly have the opportunity in the next Parliament to return to this issue, to propose other amendments to the law that eliminate limiting requirements for individual freedom in the level of compulsory registration or association and the sharing of databases. And also, to end up as an incredible match in the treatment of the so-called manifestations of political ideology to violent, racist or xenophobic acts. What these new censors defend today, for example, would have made it impossible for the followers of the Académica de Coimbra at Jamor Stadium to manifest themselves in a full academic crisis of 1969. The memory of struggles for freedoms, over time, counts, counts a lot, and cannot be lost. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Parliament has an opportunity today to show that, in stadiums, there can be empty benches of followers, but here there are no empty benches of good sense. Just say 'no' to the card. Just say 'yes' to the repeal proposed by the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u5	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To commit an act of vandalism, to commit a violent act, xenophobic or racist is a crime. Supporting a club, team or even an athlete is not a crime, nor can it even be a clue. Therefore, crime is committed, behaviour is prevented, but citizens' rights are not sacrificed, to the ride of supposed security measures, which are still not even effective. This would summarize what is involved in this discussion about the card of the adept and the areas with special conditions and it was precisely this that the CFP said when the proposed law of the Government, the legal regime of combating violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sports shows was discussed here on 4 January 2019. In the face of complex problems and situations of violence, which must be combated, the easier way has been adopted, but not so more effective, which is to respond by means of repressive measures with even tighter control measures than those that already existed. of the various problems identified in the proposal, which, however, became law, we highlight: the indiscriminate application of standards to totally different realities, the card of the adept, the areas with special conditions of access and stay of followers, the equalization of a manifestation of political ideology to a criminal act of racism or xenophobia. The conjugation of these questions makes Law No 113 / 2019 of 11 September a challenge to the rights of association and demonstration and to the freedoms of all of us. However, a speciality process was followed, in which the CFP tried to remove these issues and negative changes from the law. He has called attention—yes, he has not agreed on this matter now! — but the proposals which eliminated the figure of the applicant's card and the area with special conditions of access and stay of followers, among others, were rejected by the other parties. for the worst reasons, with the pandemic and the contained measures decreed, the impact of the law and the respective legislation would regulate the card of the adept and the special areas came to feel more forward. Not that there were no warnings and warnings, because, in addition to the PCP, since the first hour, associations and groups of followers were immediately heard, as is the case with the Portuguese Defense Association of the Adept. But, finally, we are here today and we have the opportunity to correct this mistake and prevent it from taking greater proportions. The consequences of these measures are several and do not solve any of the problems proposed. What is decided today is whether we should insist on a bad solution. It is decided whether an adept should be discriminated against and treated with suspicion of being. It is decided if we want to divide the followers into good and bad, if we want areas where young people under 16 can not enter, moving them away from their families. It is decided whether we want to limit, even more, the use of flags and other forms of expression. It is decided whether an adept, who wants to be in all fullness, has to register and provide data disproportionately and without justification. It is decided whether you can only get it by paying 20 € for your own registration, if you find it difficult to participate in games outside the home and if you ultimately want to see the empty benches and the sport that is less and less connected to life and the people. They are concerned with a number of things and none of them have anything to do with the fight against violence, racism or xenophobia. Mrs. Members, violence and discrimination are serious problems that exist in society and that occur in various contexts, within and outside the sports venues and up to them. Therefore, instead of easy and unfair solutions, we try to solve the social, economic and cultural problems that are at the root of these problems and the use of them and we always seek solutions that are appropriate, proportionate and efficient. This is the compromise and, at the same time, the challenge that the CFP here leaves in this discussion and on the day when, hopefully, we bury the card: to undo what is wrong and to have a real discussion on the problem with all the sports agents, not against them, but with them. Down with the adept's card! [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u7	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u8	Mr. President and Mr. Members : Revoking the adept card is not only a question of freedom as of effectiveness. All the examples we have in the European Union and outside it of instruments similar to this show that it has been ineffective in combating the phenomena it wants to combat and that it has considerably increased the costs of those who want to watch the sports phenomenon. Socialism has achieved an extraordinary thing: even in sport, it can charge fees! It is such an intrinsic phenomenon to socialism the idea that even to have fun and to enjoy the sport it is necessary to pay! But in Portugal, this has an aggravating, because the phenomenon of racism and xenophobia are pretexts for charging €20 or €30 to football fans. The projects presented here should have gone further, because the sanctioning regime we have in this law is absolutely absurd in the way we apply and allow sanctions in the field of sport. Anyone who looks at this regime with legal eyes, analysis, realizes the error and excess that these projects contain. The bill of arrival goes further and reinforces video surveillance in the sports phenomenon. If today we have many problems of violence within football stadiums and other enclosures, my gentlemen, there is no need for affitto card, no more bureaucracy, no more costs, more security, more transparency and more video surveillance. That is what the Arrival brings to this House and that is why it calls for the approval of this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u9	Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2009 the Assembly of the Republic did what it was competing for, i.e., it did not close its eyes to any problem and therefore intervened on a legislative process of the greatest importance. at the time, Law No. 39 / 2009 of 30 July, came in good time to gather and densify a set of legal regulations relating to the fight against racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sporting events. This legal regime covered mechanisms for the operation of these events, with the main objective being to ensure the safety of all spectators, agents and athletes involved in this phenomenon. This debate, already revised by Parliament in 2013, returned in 2019, through a bill, which, approved in the Assembly of the Republic, after the process of discussion in the specialty, represents some significant advances in combating the various types of violence that exist in sport. Sport is, and must be, an area of inclusion and that is why we must be absolutely clear: the various entities of the State to clubs or organizations that protect every sport mode, have a duty to guarantee zero tolerance for violence and exclusion. in this package of measures was included, among other things, the creation of the adept card and subsequently the creation of specific areas of followers in each sports hall. If the Assembly of the Republic has given the benefit of doubt to this law, also with the vote of the Left Block, this is also the time to make a previous balance sheet of its application and this balance sheet, three months ago on its effective application, is very simple: the adept card is ineffective, because it has not solved any of the problems and it may even have come to create some new problems. Despite this last amendment to the 2019 law, the pandemic crisis and the consequent closure to the public of sports shows for more than a year meant that the necessary reflection on the application of this measure would be delayed. Still, we can assume that, in the three months of its effective application, there are general features that can already be analysed and that, in our view, they are indicative of the need to find new solutions in the near future. The solution created in 2019 aimed to identify members of organized groups of followers in order to reserve specific sectors for them in sports settings. These objectives were not only achieved as they maintained or deepened the deresponsibility of clubs by organized groups of followers affected by them. A club, by legal obligation, creates special areas for organized groups of followers, but, if these groups organized of followers, formally or informally, decide not to buy tickets for this area, occupying other sectors of the stadium, the law has the only consequence of leaving sectors of the stadiums empty. This circumstance not only invites a reflection on the applicability or not of the law in force, but implies special care for the legislator when it is understandable that these organized groups of followers, occupying sectors of the sports hall intended for any other spectator, are often to prevent that all this mass from adopting from attending the event with safety, visibility and the necessary comforts. Since the first time you have had a parliamentary seat, the Block strives to find the best legal and social solutions to the phenomenon of sport violence and we are increasingly confident that only a joint accountability of clubs and cliques can bring fruit. On the one hand, it is not a matter of forcing the directors of the clubs to represent all or any of them criminally, nor of forcing any group of people to form themselves as a collective entity. However, it is necessary to ensure full transparency in the relationship between clubs and their cliques, in particular under what conditions they access tickets, under which conditions they have or do not have access to special areas and which duties are that these groups of followers present before the clubs and the use of the enclosures.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u12	The adept's card, in short, did not ensure more transparency in these processes, came instead, encompassing the participation of any and any spectator of sporting events in a debate which, to a large extent, should affect the clarification of the relationship between clubs and claws. in the same sense, in order to combat racism, xenophobia and intolerance, to ban all and any kind of political manifestation may prove to be a step backwards. What is needed, yes, is to enforce the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in combating fascist and racist charismatic expressions. We know that since 2009 this law has been reviewed twice and, with today's debate, we can move on to a third. The important thing is that we can go deeper into a path that has been started more than a decade ago and with the certainty that football becomes a popular sport, because the day you lose your fans no longer being football. This must always remain in the debate we want here: a popular and inclusive sport, without violence and without exclusion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u13	Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since it was created, the adept card has generated more problems than solutions. in a context of defining and relieving restrictions related to the health crisis, the implementation of the adept's card has been unnecessarily complicated what should be simple by involving more restrictions and bureaucracy to simple participation in a sporting event. This card came up with the noble idea of combating racism and intolerance in sporting events, however, this goal was completely failed. The delimitation of a zone, which aims to contain problematic followers, in addition to discriminating and segmenting the followers, who simply opt for this area of the stadium, ends up doing the opposite. in the stadium of the Light or in Alvalade, in the stadium of the mobile capital or in the municipal stadium of Arouca, the designated areas of the adept's card are predominantly empty, spreading the alleged problematic followers throughout the stadium. In addition, individuals who opt to purchase the adept card, besides having to pay a ticket for the event, the 20 € card and fill out all the additional bureaucracies associated with it, end up being separated from the remaining associative mass of their club, completely turning off the support flame that resides within each adept. These complications become even more shocking when the adept intends to go see his club in a game outside the house. Since the card was created, the supporter must have this document if you want to buy tickets to the area assigned to your club at the rival's stadium. Again, this card complicates what should not be complicated and adds unnecessary bureaucracy to those who want to support your club. The verdict is unanimous and, between followers and clubs, leaders and clans, the unpopularity of this measure is almost palpable. More tangible than this is only the lack of consideration of the government by promoting a measure that he knew would be challenged by the followers and by making life difficult for clubs in a context of reopening to the public and relieving measures to combat the pandemic. More: if the government had done its homework, it would know that in Italy and England similar measures were promoted to the card of the owner and that they also stood out for their failure. The NAP believes that racism, xenophobia and intolerance must be combated both within and outside the stadiums and, despite welcoming the intention of the Government to enter this fight, it is evident that the card of the adept at nothing helps in this battle and only worsens the leisure experience of the adept. With this, we follow the abolition of the adept's card, but we do not lower our arms in the fight against racism in football. The NAP looks with interest at measures similar to those that have been implemented, for example, in Spain, and we hope to be able to launch this debate with more time and weighting in the next legislature, in order to combat racism and intolerance in sport, but without ever discriminating the overwhelming majority of the fans who simply want to attend the game and support their club in stadiums. In the light of the above, the NAP will vote in favour of the PCP and IL projects, although they focus on resolving the problem in the short term, because they have the cross-sectional response that we defend and which should remain to discuss in the next legislature, due to lack of time. in the case of the proposal from the Arrival, we will abstain - not only because the proposal is not technically and legally rigorous in various aspects - for example, repeals the card of the applicant, but does not eliminate the existence of zones in stadiums intended only for carriers of this document, but also because it can have negative consequences for the safety of fans and sports enclosures, by proposing, for example, the end of the ban on movement between sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u15	There is no ban on movement!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u16	Before giving the floor to Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins of the PS, I would like from now on that all the Plenary knew that we are going to have votes at the end of the sitting, i.e. we will have to sign up to have a quorum of deliberations and to vote. Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In democracy there is no sector of society that lives in an exceptional state, that can live as if the rules were not applied to it, as if everything were permitted or as if the authority of the State was at the door. We need to be clear. The fight against violence in sport cannot be romanticized and must be treated as what it represents: as the fight against hatred, as the fight against racism and marginality that corroborates the foundations of our society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Regretable episodes involving the sports environment have happened over the years, growing out of stadiums and sports enclosures, with particularly serious situations and poor memory. The episode involving Marega, the invasion of Alcochete, the death of Marco Ficini, the stones to buses of players, the aggressions to arbitrators, followers and journalists are symptoms that we should not ignore, because they tarnish the good name of sport and of all followers, but decisively the most basic principles of democratic coexistence. The need to stop this phenomenon at the origin was understood by everyone as a matter of urgency. It is precisely for this reason that Parliament has decided to intervene, approving legislation which has now deserved the approval of all parties, with the exception of the Portuguese Communist Party. This law allowed the legal framework to combat violence in sport, through an extended political understanding, the result of the joint work between this Assembly, the security forces and the organizers of sporting events. It is true that there is no perfect legislation or criticism and even a law built in a mature, extended and responsible manner for all stakeholders must be scrutinized. It proves that, of the many measures contained in this law, there is one which has been the subject of intense discussion and which motivates today's debate, which we welcome. We can question the motivations of some of your biggest promoters and we should not ignore the interests of many of your biggest critics, but, basically, we should ask ourselves the real question: whether or not there is room for improvement, is in practice what was intended? The widespread implementation of the adepto card has at present little more than three months, but this should not prevent us from assessing, without fear, its implementation and its fragility. We must have this opening, but any change must be thought and discussed in a balanced way and with the involvement of all relevant agents as happened with the 2019 amendment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u18	It is our duty to do so because it is safe that we speak and we have an obligation to all families and to all those who love sports and who have the right to feel safe. We should not be afraid of words and there should be no misconceptions. Opening up to assess the implementation of this measure can never be a victory for those who are waiting for a step back in the way of combating this phenomenon. It has to be another opportunity to strengthen the response to the phenomena of sport violence and to ensure that the security, freedom and dignity of all followers is respected, wherever they are. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our responsibility, but it is also our courage not to bring about this reality. Outside this house there are those who, in the face of sports violence, prefer to shrink, because they are afraid, because it is more comfortable or because it is a sensitive and complex matter. That's not our position. In the face of difficulties, the solution is the step forward and in the face of complexity, the solution will always be looking for more and better contributions. That is the only way we will be doing our duty and what society demands from us. The fight against sport violence does not end by decree, but nothing to do is to continue compacting with the intolerable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u19	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills we have today's debate answer to a question that thousands of football fans have felt, which, after almost two years without being able to accompany their clubs, are now confronted with these limitations in stadiums. We can say that the experience made, on the line, indeed, of what happened in other countries, has failed. It was not due to lack of warning from anyone who knew about the matter, but the government did « market ears ». On the pretext of combating violence in sport, on the pretext of combating illegal sale of tickets, the Government imposes a solution that does not solve any problem, on the contrary. To secure a centralized file of information about followers does not solve the problems of violence and can even aggravate them, by pushing the followers to dispersed locations in and out of the stadium. Being a voluntary operation, the most sure thing is to reach only the followers considered orderly and disciplined, leaving all the others out. It is the Government itself that recognises what has happened, and I quote, "in large part of the stadiums (...) the areas with special conditions for access and stay of followers (affected by the adept card) have not been occupied, even observing an abnormal dispersion of followers and a change of behaviour in access to the surrounding sports centers and areas". With this situation, the government also causes problems to clubs, which are losing revenue for hundreds of places that are not being filled. The question, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that sport violence, exactly like violence in society, is not solved by bureaucratic-administrative measures nor by stigmatizing some of the most fervorous supporters of sport. We know that the easiest thing is to decide any measure, whether a card or control and limitation rules, is to strengthen the police. The most difficult are the measures of public policy, the training of monitors and facilitators, it is the intervention in social problems, which lead to the sport phenomenon. It is necessary to promote tolerance, sportism, fraternity in sport. Violence in sport is fought from the earliest ages, with the generalization of school sports and sports practice, with the promotion of sport friendship among fans of the same teams, but also among followers of opposite teams. What is needed is a public structure for sport in our country that talks to the groups of supporters and makes them talk to each other, who knows and accompanies reality and about it intervenes. It's not the pickup card we need. It is from another policy for national sport, in all its aspects. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u21	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Arrobas of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If security in the enclosures and sports shows is something that moves us all in the search for solutions and measures that prevent any limiting practices of the same security, in the face of events that, here and there, stain national sport, it is also true that we must increasingly be concerned by appealing to a common effort, of politicians, police agencies and sports agents, to fight all forms of violence against it. With regard to racists, xenophobics or any kind of demonstration of intolerance, in whatever area it is, but, with regard to the subject under discussion today, in sports shows, we must all be called upon to seek solutions. We must recognize the legislative effort that has been made over time, and the legislator has come to clarify concepts that, in the case of Sport Law, have become less and less definite. However, in 2019, in the view of the CDS, the legislator was far beyond what it should, taking a step longer than the leg, cheating, with the creation of the adept card, all the expectations that sports agents and entrepreneurs, but also all sports lovers in general, had in relation to this matter. From that point on, the law enters a wrong path, assuming that violence exists only in sports events, with the sector being discriminated against in relation to other non-sports, such as concerts, parties and romances, or, because not, bars and discotheques, where there are also disagreements, from time to time. The law that enshrines the card of the adept is even, in the view of the CDS, a law that brings into question individual freedoms and even constitutional principles, which should be well rooted. Of course, the principle of equality, but also the principle of proportionality and legality in restricting fundamental rights. As an example, it refers to an adept card that makes a segregation between visitors and visitors, promoting a differentiation between them, which is not only unjustifiable, but unqualifying, as it fosters inequalities. Why not say that the measure itself is a threat to the freedom of association of each person, since it imposes on the holders of the holder's card the obligation to inform certain organisations whether or not they belong to them? As if everything that has been mentioned was not enough, these measures can prevent the always healthy presence of families in sports shows, no longer promoting family and intergenerational encounters, so important at so many levels, and even more in a party environment. In short, there are many reservations and outrages that the adept card has provoked throughout the sports environment, leading to a further decrease in the influx of the public to the benches, making it even more difficult to sustain sports activity. The legislator presents solutions that have already shown no sense or that have been completely ineffective in resolving the problem and therefore have been abandoned in other European legal systems. It is not understood why Portugal continues to believe in this solution. It is urgent to promote fair play without limitation, starting with the younger ones. How much longer do you have to wait to implement safe standing or safe place? instead of investing in video surveillance systems, which detect all and any offenders in sports centers, and in punitive standards — yes! — to restrict freedom of access to sports shows to those who make sport a battlefield of battle, physical or verbal, the government gives us more bureaucracy and antipathy measures! And the pickup, which is also a contributor, is what pays. For all this, and for many other reasons that time here does not allow us to develop, we see no reason why this measure on the board of directors is not immediately removed from our legal order and that its revocation is even a way to appease the sector and give the new hope of resumption, which the sporting agents so much wish. There's a fight against sport violence. The weapons that are being used will not allow us to win this fight, the more we win this war! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u23	Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As far as principles are concerned, we all agree very much. We must combat violence, we must prevent sports space from being a place where xenophobia and discrimination are promoted. We all agree very much. The difficulty is when we move to the stage of implementing measures and here we already have a vast history. Since 2009, it has sought to create a legal regime that could somehow build beacons so that each of us, with his family, could enjoy a safe sporting event without having to bother. The aim is this point, where we all see each other. I would like to recall that between 2009 and 2013 there was a change in legislation and there were already problems. Why? Because there was already a need to register the claws, the organized groups of followers. What happened there? What we all know happened, but sometimes we pretend not to know. It is that clubs have no cliques or organized groups of followers, but have their seats in their stadiums, and others have a residual set of registered followers. That is why there is a continuum, an evolution and, when we discussed this subject for a long time in 2019, this was all weighted. I also want to say that the law of 2013 provided that, at the end of two years, it would be revised. In other words, the law itself had a mechanism that called for, two years after its entry into force, if it made a reflection, to make changes. This is where the problems may begin. This file from the beginning of the 2013 review of the legislation was the first file in the transition process between governments. I myself gave my successor, then Secretary of State of Sport, a set of subjects, and the first was which? Oh, my God! It was the starting point for the revision of this law. That is, the meetings had already been held with the various participants in the sports sector and the situation also. For this reason, in Parliament, we all hoped that the government would do what the law itself said, i.e. the revision to the evaluation of the 2013 law. It passed 2016, 2017, 2018 and, already in 2019, in September, i.e. at the end of the Legislature, came this legislation. We lost four years, perhaps, to do a weighting that we could do in two hours or less time. This is the basic reality. What happened? Oh, my God! We all took part — taking out the parties who were not here — in the evaluation of this legislation and it deserved a broad consensus, but had experimental things, being the card of the adept, which is a piece in this whole legislation, an experimental question. It's a fact. However, during a time and a half, there were no spectators, so there were no problems in the stadiums, precisely because there were no spectators. When this era began, and we are still only less than a third, a set of problems began to appear. in this process, there have already been answers, because there have been successive changes to facilitate access to stadiums. Well, what's wrong? Oh, my God! It is that during the year 2020, in which there was sport without spectators, there should have been care, for whom it is responsible—that is, the Government, which perhaps should be here in order to participate in this debate with us, and it is not — to prepare for the implementation of the measures! [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the process of 2019 was highly debated and matured in Parliament, and had no vote against. Why? Oh, my God! Because, in fact, there was a vote of confidence to create another answer, or rather, to give continuity in the answer that was needed to combat these phenomena, but that is not what has been done. What was done was let go. The COVID-19 paralysed the government in sport. We all know that, in various areas, this has unfortunately been the case. in this essential, new and experimental area, the government has failed in turn to involve the partners, the clubs that organize the games, the fans, of all, creating, indeed, this situation that we are living today. [[PSD applause.]] Indeed, behaviors that should not happen, wrong questions and answers that are not appearing are diagnosed. Therefore, I would like to say that the PSD has always been on the side of solutions in this area and, when it had government functions, it has always been on the side of solutions. Euro 2004 was a successful organisation without incidents — the PSD was in government. The PSD, in 2013, prepared legislation to be reviewed in 2015. The Government of António Costa has decided to do so in 2019 and we have a problem with the law of 2019. This is the great truth. [[PSD applause.]] However, I cannot but comment on what we are discussing. The Liberal Initiative was right before the time, because, on August 5, it was already requesting the revocation of the adept's card. There was not yet a championship, there was not yet a game done, but it was already known that there would be problems. The Communist Party again steps on what it had already said in 2019. What is the Communist Party concerned about? Oh, my God! It is that the IPDJ ( Portuguese Institute of Sport and Youth) disappeared and an authority appeared. He doesn't like authorities. He says there's a reinforcement of the role of private security. He doesn't like security reinforcement. He says that there should be no creation of specific areas and says something, in his explanatory statement, that... [[PCP protests.]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Communist Party, but I cannot let you make it clear that you say, and I will read your diploma, the following: "It is noted that this law, focused only on the reality of the great sports competitions, applies indiscriminately to a heterogeneous reality at any competitive level. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Members, I explain, since they have not read: this applies to professional competitions and non-professional competitions, in which the risk state of the game itself is decreed. Therefore, it does not apply indifferently to the whole sports sector. It is appropriate to study a little earlier, so as not to create falsehoods in the political debate. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] What you write in your diploma is a lie! No legislation exists, nor in 2009, 2013, or 2019. After this, we have a problem that's signaled, it's diagnosed. We are available, as in the past, for whoever wills of the Assembly, to contribute to the improvement and strengthening of the solution. That has always been our commitment. I can also, in this respect, remind the Liberal Initiative and the other parties that the parliamentary committee, in its report, concluded and — unanimously approved — that, having approved this diploma, we would have to hear the Secretary of State for Youth and Sport, the Portuguese Sports Institute, federations, professional leagues, sports companies, sports clubs, associations of various sports, arbitration councils, the Portuguese Olympic Committee, the Portuguese Paralympic Committee, the Portuguese Sports Confederation, the security forces, the organised groups of supporters, the Portuguese Security Coordinators Association, the Portuguese Defence Association, the Attorney General's Office and the Superior Council of the Public Ministry. These are the entities we have to hear in order to comply with the parliamentary committee's deliberations on these initiatives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u25	Mr Ventura, from the East, has the floor now, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We must leave the assumption that what happened with the Marega case or with Marco Finici has nothing to do with the card of the adept. It is necessary to have a lot of bad faith to bring to this plenary cases that occurred outside sports halls, as if they had to do with the adept's card, to charge 20 € to Portuguese, as if that were to solve any problem of racism or xenophobia that you see in football and find a relevant problem. Mr Nelson Silva, the movement between sectors in stadiums cannot be blindly imposed. It is an obvious technical issue. There are stadiums where it is not possible to ban traffic between sectors. What we propose in this law is basic: we repeal a rule because the end of the same rule says that the regulation of each of the sports premises must be applied. That is enough so that, in cases where there is circulation, it can be guaranteed and, in other cases, it is not. Finally, Mr President, I am sorry to say this to you, but you have not read the proposal well. Article 16 ( 13 ). the -A which is in force establishes a number of cases in which sanctions are applied and says 'and' instead of 'or', which means that all conditions would have to be cumulatively leading to a sanction. That was not the legislator's spirit. The legislator's spirit was to allow, in any case of non-compliance, a penalty. The proposal from the European Parliament is to resolve a technical and legal problem, which makes all the sense, in the light of the law we have in force.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u27	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u28	I will finish, Mr. President. We can see racism and xenophobia everywhere, but do not do football and sports fans pay for your distorted views of the world and Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u29	Mr Eduardo Barroco de Melo, from the PS Parliamentary Group, now has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are called to this debate because in 2019 the Assembly of the Republic approved Law No 113 / 2019 and therefore established the legal regime of security and combating racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sports shows, which amended that Act of 2009. It is important to give this note, because first of all it is necessary to realize that we are discussing a law that has departed from the Assembly of the Republic and which, as has already been said, had broad consensus. Having reached 2021, it must be acknowledged that the amendments introduced in this legal regime have given him a robustness that he did not possess at that time and that allows us to respond more effectively today to the phenomena that are not compatible with sport practice and principles. In fact, the only innovation in this debate is that we seem to have parties that do not understand that preventing the problems of violence associated with the sport phenomenon is from the moment they originate, which is precisely in sports practice. We cannot bear in mind that the phenomena associated with sports practice that occur outside the sports halls did not start in the agglomeration of people, who joined with that purpose. The proof that we currently have a more robust regime is that today we are not discussing the law, but we are discussing, above all, one aspect that is contained in that law. Today, we are no longer calling into question the Authority for Prevention and Combating Violence in Sport, nor the National Point for Sport Information, for example. We also recognize that the work of drafting Law No 113 / 2019 has been carried out in a supported manner. Security authorities, sports clubs and other sports entities have been heard. The parliamentary groups, in the Assembly of the Republic, at that time, engaged in this debate in a very thorough manner, since it had been adopted practically unanimously, not voting against. This recognition has also supported the numbers. If we look at what happened between the sports season 2013 / 2014 and 2017 / 2018, we had 90 judicial decisions and 32 administrative decisions on the prohibition of access to sports venues. Only in two epochs, from 2017 / 2018 onwards, there were 176 judicial bans and 411 administrative. So there was a huge evolution. For those who say that nothing has been done, there has been an enormous evolution from the point of view of the efficiency of the law to combat these phenomena. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u31	What we now have, as I said earlier, is a more effective, more robust law that solves the problems that we, in the Assembly of the Republic, have taken on mission to solve.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u32	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u33	I think that is the starting point for this discussion. But evaluating public policies is an exercise of responsibility and can not be done without realizing that these are difficult, complex themes that cannot be treated at the basis of manichaeism. We therefore regret that the evaluations we are discussing today, presented by the various proposers, do not debate the law, but are limited to repeal, without any improvement proposal. So today, the Assembly of the Republic is not called upon to decide constructively on this law, but to revoke one of the measures adopted in it. We do not see ourselves in the determinism of those who imagine that the fight against sport violence is done by rescinding the card of the adept. on our part, they will not wait for easy answers to solve complex problems. The Socialist Party is where it has always been: open to evaluation of all measures, available to improve any aspect that is deemed necessary, but never ignoring the concrete problems that arise at any time. Defending sport is refusing violence, discrimination, intolerance, without fear of continuing to seek the best solutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u34	Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost at the end of this debate on the card of the adept, it is necessary to evaluate the weaknesses of this card, without fear of perceiving the interests of each of the parties involved, recognizing the mistakes and what needs to be improved, continually protecting the freedom of the followers, removing the instigators from violence and at the same time designing welcoming and safe spaces for all sectors of society who want to enjoy a football game, from 8 to 88 years old. But in this context of operationalization of this card, the truth is that this card has suffered two major setbacks: an inept and completely out of the actual needs of the sports sector and almost two sports periods of absence of the public in stadiums by reason of the pandemic. It is therefore important to ask: what has the government done? Oh, my God! You didn't do anything! What should I have done? Oh, my God! He should have worked to ensure that changes to legislation were absorbed by sports organizers and promoters. There was a whole year when stadiums were out of public. It is also important to ask: does it make sense, at the end of a legislation, in the course of a time and with little time to operate the card of the adept, to dismiss it immediately? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u36	Mr Miguel Costa Matos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is an important discussion on freedom and security, to ensure that everyone has, in fact, freedom and security to enjoy the sports games that we all love. The principle that we all subscribe to is that my freedom ends where the freedom of others begins. That is why it is so fundamental, after the occurrence of a series of incidents, after a clear reflection in this House, that we have constituted legislation that has been able to achieve greater balance and better means to combat violence in sport. however, this has been a debate that has brought to the top the difficulties we have been witnessing over the past few months. And what the PS has to say is this: let's listen, let's study, let's reflect, let's make the balance, seriously, without hurrying, hearing the entities, considering all the options without excluding any, with the guarantee that this is the best way to find the best solutions. We cannot align ourselves with unserious or myth-based debates. This is a way in which the government has done many things, in the inter-entity relationship, but also ensuring that there are more bans than in the past today. But it is important that we make this debate seriously, without feeding the myths that some, outside this house, wanted to feed, saying that the card was for all followers, when it is only for some and in certain circumstances, that this is trying to control, when before the regime itself had to have the name of the holder, even if it was not always fulfilled. Or even the myth that this also covers visitors, as some parties here said, when, in fact, this resulted in a misunderstanding at the beginning of the implementation and that today is outdated, because visitors can watch a game without having the card of the appetizer. It is therefore important that we continue now with a serious balance and an honest debate, listening to the entities, so that we can achieve the best solution and safeguard freedom and security, values that, fortunately, bring together the greatest consensus here, to protect and defend sport and fans. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u38	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will enter the final stage of the debate. For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have not yet been able to understand, of any of the interventions — which are, in fact, a date of mistification, confusion — of the scope of the law, because it is not only football, of course, and even there are totally different realities, from a much more professional and massive level, to another, where competitions also happen in other contexts and with other resources. Therefore, it is not appropriate to make mystifications which at nothing help the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u40	The law doesn't apply there!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u41	As for the PSD, he spoke, he spoke, but he failed to explain his position and why it is in favour of a registration card, the registration of the followers, which reminds the time of the "other lady", and in which it is that it fights violence, racism or xenophobia. You couldn't! [[PSD protests.]] In fact, the PSD does something amazing: it comes to this debate to talk about a proposal that is not in the vote — that was in 2019! The PSD takes on the 2019 proposal not to pronounce itself, because it has no courage to pronounce itself on the 2020 proposal! [[PCP applause.]] On the other hand, what no one has been able to explain here is how an adept, in order to be able to manifest himself freely, in order to have a flag, has to go to a certain area and pay 20 € — and cannot take a child with him — is to fight racism, xenophobia and violence. We can't understand and I hope someone can explain this here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u42	To close the debate, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Allow me to say the first word here to the followers who may be following this debate live or a little later, on record. My dear followers, it's almost, it's almost! There is only one thing we have seen here today—that only a few, among them and at the head of the Liberal Initiative, have done—that is, everyone recognises the death of the adept's card and are available to pass the death certificate. What have we attended during this debate? The PS until days ago had the theory that three months of law enforcement was little to evaluate its results. It reminds the Prime Minister that, in this Chamber, a month ago, he also realized that he did not know what was going on and a month was not enough for him to realize the total uselessness of the adept's card. We must not be confused: in the fight against racism, xenophobia and violence in sport, the importance of the adept card is zero, absolutely zero! I am afraid even to say that the adept's card tends to worsen the conditions of attendance at sports shows and thus to increase the conditions for the existence of violence in sport. As for the PSD, I was in doubt. Mr. Emídio Guerreiro listed 20 entities that were last heard. If you're saying 20 entities are going to be heard this time, I also want to warn the followers that this means that we're going to continue to have a membership card by the end of the time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u44	That is what the Commission has approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u45	Therefore, a lot of attention: the commitment of the Liberal Initiative is that we will keep the pressure so that the adepto card will reach the end until Christmas, because it will be a beautiful gift that we will give to everyone who likes to watch sports shows. Mr Deputy said: « The Liberal Initiative seems to be present; on 5 August he was already requesting the revocation of the applicant's card ». We did not need to see the practical application of the card to know that it was an obvious, obvious, repeated, infringement of people's fundamental rights, a discriminatory and probably unconstitutional maneuver. And we also did not need to be present to know—it is enough to know the sporting reality—that there was no member of an organized group worthy of that name that would ever subscribe to the card of the adept. It was not necessary to be a witch, Mr President, to know that it was not going to work and, once again, the reality gave us reason. Now that we've reached this point, it can't wait, it can't have a process in specialty for months, it can't wait for the next legislature. None of your colleagues, of course, is a partner or owner of a football club or a sports club that is suffering in the skin by thousands of places that have to be empty every time there is a game. The finances of these clubs, the organization of the games of these clubs, actually require urgency. We're going to end the bill of lading, we're going to end him in this legislature. This is what the fans want and what Portugal needs. [[Congrats from the PS Chancellor of Vasconcelos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u46	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of this agenda item on the card of the appetizer. We will generally consider Law No 118 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Change the rates provided for in the Single Circulation Tax Code and extend the measures to support road transport provided for in the Staff Regulations of Tax Benefits. To open the debate, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes, has the floor to congratulate. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law which the Government brings today to the Assembly of the Republic is part of the framework of exceptional support measures based on the increase in the price of fuels. This set of exceptional measures is also intended for the transport sector, either for passengers or for goods, and on the other hand there is also a measure intended, in general, for families, which has entered into force today, enabling all holders of tax identification number (NIF) and bank card, which are registered via the VATucher platform, to access a discount on fuels equivalent to a storage of a utility car, 50 lt per month in the amount of 10 cents per litre. These 10 cents correspond to the difference between the sales price to the public in 2019 and the average selling price to the public in 2021, covering fully that same price difference. The reduction in the price of fuels is also made through support for the transport sector, as you said. in the passenger transport sector, either for buses or taxis, the government determined the application of a measure involving the allocation of a subsidy for each taxi and each bus. with regard to the transport of goods, we have sought to strengthen the structural measures which already existed and which are now, as I said, reinforced by the increase in the limits for the application of professional gas oil, or also through this proposal for a law which we have here, the reduction in half — I repeat — of the IUC (the single traffic tax) relating to the transport of goods on behalf of others and, on the other hand, the extension of the increase of costs with the purchase of fuel for the purposes of IRC (the income tax of the public), which is a measure applicable to the transport of goods and also to passengers. I shall, of course, be at the disposal of the ladies and gentlemen. Members to answer all the questions they understand relevant. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u48	To make a request for clarification, Mr Alexandre Poço, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, with this proposal which brings us today, the Government demonstrates two things: first, that it is lost and, second, that it is disoriented in response to the fuel crisis. In fact, we all remember the reaction of the Government, the reaction of the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Environment when the fuel crisis was already felt in the Portuguese portfolio. And it seems that it was almost necessary for the price at some supply stations to exceed €2 per litre for the government to start taking some measures, which we consider to be clearly insufficient. See: today, the government starts a new programme that we classify as a lack of respect for the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] In fact, the government, in order to avoid taxing, almost only needs to announce a partnership with hypermarkets to ensure that the Portuguese do not feel so much in their portfolio the cost of gasoline, fuel. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u50	Is the PSD against? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u51	Mr. Secretary of State, the Portuguese pay today the taxes that you have decided, that you have not complied with your 2016 promises. Otherwise, we see: without the high tax burden, Portugal would have an average selling price for fuels in line with the European Union and our Iberian neighbor Spain. In fact, in the case of gasoline it would be lower than in Spain, if it were not the weight of taxes. But the high tax burden, which you refuse to lower, means that, for example, the Portuguese in the third quarter of 2021 had paid 59 % of gas taxes or 54 % of gas, which results in the most expensive fuels in the European Union. The Portuguese pay today the fifth most expensive petrol in Europe and the sixth most expensive gas oil. The same Portuguese who, as we have said so many times, receive from the lowest wages in Europe, pay fuel today at a higher price than the Germans, the French, the Spanish or the Italians. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mr. Members, these measures which they present today, such as those they have presented, are clearly insufficient. And if we understand the Portuguese revolt, we cannot perceive your reluctance to lower the tax burden at the time of escalating fuel prices. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u52	For an intervention, Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u53	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate is an example of everything that we do not really need at the fiscal level. The government, on the occasion of the fuel crisis, brings us — see! — a measure which is more than a perverse subsidy, plus one, to fossil fuels. thus, it proposes two things: a reduction to half of the rates of IUC and the extension of the increase of the costs of companies with the acquisition of fuels, i.e. proposals entirely contrary to the rhetoric of the government regarding the need to adopt measures aimed at more sustainable mobility options and to combat climate change. The fuel crisis cannot have such wide backs to the point of justification for once again putting the climate crisis in the drawer and for no longer betting on decarbonization measures. The other proposal is a complete, unconsidered magic pass on application — again! — 'VATucher', which has served for everything a little and something more. It cannot be accepted that the fiscal policy of our country continues to ignore the calls of the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and the UN ( United Nations ) to put an end to the perverse subsidies for fossil fuels. If the government really wanted to combat the effects of the fuel crisis without compromising the love interests made at the COP in Glasgow, for example, it should be presenting solutions that would be affixed to improving public transport, transmodal coverage, particularly in the interior, and the creation of more hours, thus contributing to putting an end to the logic of canned beans at peak hours, which dominates the day-to-day users, or to the end of taxi trips to health centres due to lack of public collective transport. The NAP has strongly advocated the improvement and expansion of the supply of public transport, as well as a serious, integrated and sustainable strategy for the revitalization of the interior or the concepts « 15-minute city » and « soft mobility ». We also defend the conversion of combustion vehicles to zero-emission vehicles and the decentralization of energy production and distribution. These are completely valid options that the Government could take seriously and which guarantee not only environmental goals but also create new economic models, contributing to environmentally responsible growth. On the other hand, they also guarantee the energy sovereignty of our country. None of these options have been decided by the Government to embrace seriously and instead to encourage fossil fuels once again. For the NAP, this project solves a very short-term problem but extends others in the medium and long-term.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u54	I ask the services to prepare our screens so that we can register for quorum purposes, since we will have votes here shortly. For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : The proposal that the Government is putting forward late and, frankly, in the face of needs, is very small — not to use any more preferred expression, perhaps, of the Prime Minister — and goes far beyond what is necessary. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should talk a little bit about history, because at the moment we have a very high price problem in gasoline and gasoline, or rather, in general, we have very high prices in fuel, and this has two explanations: an explanation is the increase in the price of oil, and this is indeed not the responsibility of the government; the other is a tax burden that is above the taxation practised in most countries, that is why the government is responsible. I would like to remind you again that in February 2016, before a price of oil historically and transiently low, the Government decided to increase the ISP ( tax on oil and energy products ). And did he say what? Saying that when the price of oil increases again, it would decrease the ISP. So far, however, he has not reduced it in this amount and has never returned what he has been charging for over the years. Now, rather than simply opting to lower taxation, i.e. by lowering the ISP, comes to do a series of surgical measures that go beyond what seems essential to me. First of all, with regard to what, as far as I understand, has been called by the ‘VATucher’, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to understand something. Will the VATucher measure work in a similar way as the VATucher of tourism, which last year was the major tax relief measure in the budget proposal? It was 200 million euros. It confirms, Mr Secretary of State, that in November even 10 % of this is implemented, and therefore the reliability and predictability of the government in these matters are already seen. I can see what's coming out of here! And then, Mr. Secretary of State, confirms that what you are proposing is at a maximum of 5 € per month, for 5 months, i.e. a maximum of 25 €. We are talking about around EUR 133 million, which is not even half what the government paid most in ISP with this increase in 2016 — this just to understand the greatness of what is being proposed. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, the challenge left him was to eliminate the additional — the overtax or what he would call it — from the ISP. I am going to be concrete, challenging it to eliminate the increase your Government made in 2016 and, from then on, perhaps we can start talking about other measures. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u56	You have the floor for an intervention Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u57	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State : I think he agreed that the government would begin by understanding itself. Mr. Secretary of State João Galamba said the following: "When the price of oil rises, we will lower taxes on fuels". Mr. Secretary of State Antonio Mendonça Mendes also said that ISP would be down by 0, 2 € and that this would be in force by the end of the year. However, Minister Siza Vieira said: "I do not think lowering taxes on fuels is the solution to the fuel problem". And Minister Pedro Nuno Santos has still told us that it is a small vision of economic policy that he thinks it is lowering the taxes that we will solve this issue. So the arrival began by advising the government to understand itself. Since they do not understand their partners, at least they understand within the government what they want to do in relation to the IUC, the additional tax and the ISP. This would be a basic measure of fiscal policy. Then, Mr. Secretary of State, no one can hide that this is pure propaganda. As Mr Alexandre Poço said, there is only one partnership with a supermarket or local gas pumps. It's the VATucher, it's half the IUC, it's two thirds of the tax I don't know what... Out there, nobody understands why the government doesn't end the extra, which was the government that created. It's as simple as this: finish the extra! Mr. Secretary of State, you have a good example. Do you know what it is? It's Madeira. Madeira has effectively reduced costs for Madeirans on fuel and the government should follow the same example instead of coming to Parliament to make makeup manoeuvres, because we are 70 days away from the elections, pretending to do something. That is what it should do and that is what the voters expected from the government, which gives a sign that we have Europe's fifth most expensive petrol and that we cannot continue to have these prices in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u58	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : The proposal under review is presented by the Government as a response measure to the increase in the price of fuels, creating a tax reduction of 50 %, within IUC, to category D cars, i.e. cars affected by the public transport of goods, and extending in time the existing tax benefits. Speaking of these measures in particular, we can now identify its profound scope, not only by the concrete impact, which is small for most companies, but also by the unfair exclusion that starts with various sectors. In addition to the serious situation and the specific problems of transport undertakings, we ask ourselves: but then, the same reasons, the same criteria justifying this measure do not justify that it is also applied to other areas of activity? In some cases, even for most reasons! We see the case of sectors such as emergency trailers or driving schools, where fuel turnover assumes an avalanche in operational costs and where price escalation has brought no less demanding problems, with the aggravating that they do not yet have access to a set of support measures that they need. These sectors — such as all micro, small and medium-sized enterprises of productive sectors, trade, services or restoration — are completely furnished with access to this support proposed by the Government, because the vehicles they use are not covered. Support, in itself, is not unfair, what is unfair is the exclusion of these companies. On the other hand, we cannot fail to regret the lack of a more robust response with practical effects on the price of fuels, contrary to the speculative increases in recent months, which weigh on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and domestic consumers, generally exacerbating the country's economic situation. The price of fuels should be reduced and fiscal relief measures should therefore be combined with the implementation of a maximum price scheme so that the situation of a tax reduction will not happen again immediately be consumed by the following increases, such as when the government lowered 0, 2 € in the ISP. Yes, the additional to the ISP decreed by the Government in 2016, per portia, with the pretext of lowering the price of oil, and it is necessary to end the double taxation of VAT ( value added tax ) on the ISP. But for these measures not to fall into a broken bag, it is also necessary to question the very foundations of the price formation scheme, the margins of large oil mills, false competition and cartel prices, as everyone sees. It is not acceptable to maintain a price-forming mechanism whose basis is not based on the actual price of the oil barrel at the time of its purchase, but rather on the quotations of Rotterdam Square, an artificial controlled and decided index by large oil tankers. It is not acceptable that the margins of oil marketing rise when these quotations are high, which means that they profit more when the price of oil is high in these quotations. For this reason, the CFP presented, months ago—in July! — a proposal to create a maximum price scheme guaranteeing a price training mechanism based on the actual costs of purchasing, refining, transport and marketing of fuels and not on the false mechanisms of the 'financing' of this energy sector, but this proposal was rejected with the PS to join the PSD, the CDS, the NAP, the Liberal Initiative and the forthcoming vote against. However, the Government has presented a more limited mechanism for possible intervention on the shores, but so far the practical result has not yet been felt by the Portuguese. Taking advantage of this opportunity, we ask: what has been the government's intervention on the margins? As an urgent response to this obstacle to the economic development of the country—an additional response which the Government continues to reject, except with palliatives such as the one it presents or the one of the €5 voucher on paper—the CFP will not fail to overcome the measures which lead to the actual reduction in the price of fuels and, for that purpose too, to regain public control over the energy sector, which has a strategic character, as is proved once again. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u60	Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of Parliament, Mr Secretary of State : This proposal for a government law introduces two very specific measures relating to the road transport sector of goods and passengers, with a view, according to the Government, to compensate for the increase in the price of fuels. In addition, these proposals have already been discussed with the representatives of the sector, after several weeks with a price increase which, in combination with the pandemic crisis, has reduced the demand of many passenger transport companies. These proposals could possibly mitigate or respond to existing needs. It has already been explained in particular what these measures were adopted in the Council of Ministers, to which others of a fiscal nature were added, to which the Minister referred in his speech, in particular that of the VATucher applied to fuels. This is a measure that the Left Block has already had the opportunity to criticize on several occasions because it seems to us that it does not go to the root of the problem, and it seems to us that it represents very little for the families' pocket. We think it is very important to highlight some of the issues that we have brought back to this debate, as we have already brought on other occasions about fuels. As regards the evolution of the price of fuels, the data from the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology show that despite some stabilization in the last week, prices remain very high. We also know from an international point of view that we have maintained a model of concentration of oil production led by the OPEC ( Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ) countries, which have been determining international prices for decades and have also confirmed last Thursday that they will maintain the rate of production, which may prolong this high price. That is why we have come to warn this international system and its impact, but also, and accordingly, to present alternative structural measures and proposals that look not only at the profit margins of oil companies — the government, as we know, has never used the law which has passed here and which has already been very thin — but also to respond to the need to ensure fair, stable prices for the economy and families, through price-training mechanisms, proposed that too was rejected. We recall again that the data show that it is more because of the high margins than because of any other factor that prices have risen in the way we have seen, a phenomenon explained by the high concentration in the sector. That is why price control would be the most effective measure to limit the gross increases we have been suffering in recent months, which favour a speculative market and which has been damaging, even more at this time of crisis, families and businesses, particularly transport companies, in particular the passenger transport sector, and many micro and small businesses in this sector have continued to complain. We also know that, in the opinion of the representatives of these sectors, the measures that the Government is now presenting, and may be important because they have an immediate impact, although temporary, are not sufficient. We are still talking about other sectors that remain unanswered. It has certainly reached the Government, as Parliament does, the news that the trailer sector, driving schools, some emergency vehicles continue to have great difficulty in responding to this fuel price increase for their normal activity. We therefore believe it is important to reinforce that the Government necessarily has to look at the measures that the Left Block has already presented here and which it continues to beat itself. Without moving towards price fixing and the mechanisms for fixing fuel prices, we will not be responding effectively and in the long term to this problem, which will remain. It will not only be by mitigating measures or by measures such as those which the Government has submitted that we will reach a good port. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u62	Mr Fernando Anastácio of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We are all aware that the increase in fuel costs, particularly in oil, in international markets, has led to an unpredictable market situation and has been, on a global scale, precisely at a very significant increase in fuel costs, with a significant impact on the economy and the lives of citizens. The Portuguese Government, it is worth stressing here, was the first, at European level, to take steps to minimize the impact of aggravating the cost of fuels. The bill that Mr Secretary of State today has already had the opportunity to introduce itself precisely in a much more robust package of measures which clearly circumvent this bill and which are intended to mitigate these effects, particularly in the specific case, in the road transport sector. The aim of the proposal is to mitigate, as I said, the adverse effects of the increase in the price of fuels on the company structures of the freight transport sector on behalf of others. Therefore, the measure in particular is the reduction of the single circulation tax by 50 %, reducing the tax burden which is, in fact, very relevant to those companies. In addition, taking into account the lapse of the tax benefit provided for in Article 70. that of the Tax Benefit Statute, which would be in December 2021, there is also a proposal to extend this mechanism. It provides for an increase within IRC of these costs in 2026, in particular for the cost of fuel in companies with public passenger transport, on vehicles affected by the road transport of goods and also on vehicles affected by taxi transport. Therefore, the objective, as I said, is to mitigate these costs and also respond to companies in these particularly affected sectors. This is an important measure, but, as I said recently, it has to be seen in a more general and more global picture. I would like to point out precisely that this global package — and today it has been minimized — is worth more than 300 million euros and so we will put things in its proper size. It has already been mentioned here, but we must point out, the extra gain with VAT due to the increase in the final price, which had an impact on the reduction of 0, 2 € and 01 €, respectively in petrol and gas oil, with a reduction of 90 million euros; AUTOvoucher, irrespective of the assessments made here, will have an impact of 0, 10 € per litre and a predictable cost of 132 million euros; the creation of a compensation mechanism for the passenger public transport sector — buses and taxis — is an one-off measure that provides for a precise impact of 190 € for each licensed taxi and 1050 € for each public transport bus. It is still important — I cannot help but say and it is an effective response, even though there are several sectors that will not agree — let us present the present moment and refer to the measure by which the Government decided to freeze by March 2022 the value of the carbon rate, which could reflect an increase in the fuel price of around 0, 5 € per litre, a measure with an impact of approximately EUR 95 million. Therefore, this is a set of measures and it is in this framework that these must be done and evaluated. in general, they are measures which have a global logic and which want to respond systematically and responsibly to the problems with which different economic agents and consumers face the impact of the increase in the price of fuels which has occurred in particular in the last half of this year. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with the following reference: I reiterate the full availability of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to complete this legislative process in good time, so that we do not fail, with the approval of these measures already awaited by the sectors, to whom we expect a responsible and effective attitude in responding to problems and this type of cost, minimizing the burdens of companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u64	Mr Sara Madruga of the Costa, for the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to talk about political will, or lack of it, as regards this Government of the Socialist Party, with two examples. First of all, the Government has put forward an initiative which has already been realized that it does not solve the fuel problem. The government did not follow Madeira's good example of lowering the ISP — we are talking less than 7% in gasoline and less than 9% in gas oil. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the second example is the free zone of Madeira. It was not the blockade, the intransigence and the irresponsibility of the Socialist Party, we would be discussing together with this initiative a proposal that is absolutely crucial for Madeira, namely: the extension of the deadline so that new licences can be admitted, in the free zone, from 1 January. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this initiative has been scheduled and has been excluded because the PS has invoked a very restrictive interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, which does not require itself when requesting further follow-up.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u66	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u67	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is thus once again evident that the Socialist Party continues to do everything, but even everything to harm Madeira. This matter is important and urgent, either for the CINM (International Centre for Madeira Affairs ) or for our region, for what it represents in terms of job maintenance and the tax revenue it allows. The PS has been manifest and absolutely indifferent to these circumstances, such as its saga against Madeira. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is an absolutely deplorable attitude on the part of the Socialist Party, which deserves our repudiation and our public denunciation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is once again evident, throughout this process, that this government is unwilling and evil to solve two problems that are very important to the population: the fall of the ISP in fuels and the extension of new licences to operate in the free zone of Madeira. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u68	Mr Carlos Pereira, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has now entered to intervene. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa has tried to test here a simulation of concern with Madeira, even above having been warned, before all this happened, that it could indeed happen what is happening. [[Protests by PSD MP Sara Madruga from Costa.]] And nothing more serious, after the serious error of the Madeira PSD by having not helped to provide conditions for the State budget to be approved and so that there would be no early elections or the problem of the extension of tax benefits,... [[PSD protests.]] ... of what still finds another mistake, now from the PSD, which is to drag a diploma that had no material connection to the diploma that is being discussed. Therefore, Mrs Deputies, it is regrettable that, at the right time, at the time when it is necessary, in fact, to defend the Macedonians, at the time when it is necessary to be at the level of responsibility,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u70	It's no shame. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u71	...the Member and her regional government, which say that they are next to the Madeirans, have not had the courage to do what had to be done to prevent a political crisis, prevent the budget from falling and somehow prevent elections and if it did what had to be done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u72	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to keep a little quiet. You have the floor to close the debate, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to point out three notes. First of all, I would like to point out that, of all banks, I have no criticism of the bill we are considering. As such, the Government hopes that the Assembly of the Republic will be able to approve the fall of the IUC by 50 % for the carriage of goods and also the extension of the increase in fuel costs, which will benefit the freight transport sector and the passenger transport sector. I think it is a good decision that Parliament will make. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, I would also like to note that the largest opposition party has spent 40 % of its time in a debate on the mitigation of fuel costs, with the defence of Madeira's free zone. I think that says everything about the state of the greatest opposition party. [[PSD protests.]] Thirdly, I would very much like the discussion on fossil fuel tax to be less in love and more with the eyes set in Glasgow, in a real way. Parliament has very recently adopted the Basics of Climate Law, unanimously. I really believe that, without being the Liberal Initiative, which did not approve it and voted against it, and a party, I think that the CFP, which abstained, the Parliament largely approved that basic law. Mr Nelson Silva, I understand what you have said, but also look at the debate we have here and which obliges the government to achieve this balance. It came here — and well — to express itself against the perverse subsidies to the environment, something which, from Glasgow, since any debate on climate change and the need for environmental sustainability, is understood by everyone. We are certainly on this path to withdrawing subsidies from the environment, but we have had an exceptional situation, at a time when it is not yet possible to have the energy transition absolutely made. Mr President, those who have also approved climate law are the first to say that taxes on fossil fuels are lowered. They're the first! But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they often do so with very little rigour. When we compare Portugal with other countries, for example with Spain, it might also be good to remember that Spain, in the approval of its PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), undertook to raise taxes on fuels in 0, 20 € because they have a tax in contraclusive with their environmental practices. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we have the balance to realize that we are at a time when the abnormal increase in the price of fuels implies taking an exceptional and transitional measure. Mrs. Members, that is why, in view of the average increase in petrol of 0, 10 € and 0, 3 € cents in gas oil, the Government has approved a support covering this price increase differential of 0, 10 €, both for the carriage of goods and for the transport of passengers, be taxis or buses, as well as for families, in a general way. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we once again understand the question of the ISP. The ISP has a revenue that is not only due to tax. [[Protests by PSD MP Sara Madruga from Costa.]] The ISP has four components in the revenue: one concerns the tax; the other concerns the contribution of the road sector; the other concerns the additional of the ISP, created by a government led by Dr. Durão Barroso ; and the other concerns the carbon rate, created by a government led by Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all that is the revenue of ISP which does not correspond to tax, corresponds to one third of the revenue collected. And it is also important that the ladies and gentlemen. Members realize that a substantial part of the ISP revenue is allocated to both the infrastructures of Portugal for road conservation, with regard to the contribution of the road sector, or to the Environmental Fund, with regard to the carbon rate, which pays for the decrease of the passes, and also the additional ISP — I repeat, the additional ISP, created in a Government of Dr Durão Barroso — which funds the Permanent Forestry Fund. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese Government was the first to have a very significant set of measures to mitigate the increase in the price of fuels. [[PSD protests.]] We do so because of financial sustainability and environmental sustainability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are not those who one day come to shout by the Climate Bases Act and the next day have a completely distorted and completely demagogic position just because they are thinking about the elections. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u74	Mr. Secretary of State, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying the following: it is this responsible and balanced position that can make the country have a future, and that is why we are here. Thank you very much. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u76	We have thus reached the end of the second item on the agenda and we are going to vote on the third item. As you know, quorum records have been open for quite a long time. We have 202 ladies and gentlemen. Members who are not registered, therefore, 28 Members who are not registered. We will begin by voting, in general, of Bill No. 920 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Repeals the adept card by non-discrimination and stigmatization of citizens in sports premises ( fourth amendment to Law No 39 / 2009 of 30 July ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the Deputies of PS André Pinotes Batista, Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carlos Brás, Constança Urbano de Sousa, Isabel Alves Moreira, Joana Lima, Rosário Gambôa and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and abstentions of PS and PSD.]] The initiative we just voted on is low to 8. The general vote of Bill No. 1012 / XIV / 3 is followed. a ( PCP ) — The fourth amendment is made to Law No 39 / 2009 of 30 July by removing the card from the holder and the areas with special conditions for access and stay of followers. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the CDS-PP, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL, Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PS Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carlos Brás, Constance Urbano de Sousa, Isabel Alves Moreira, Joana Lima, Rosário Gambôa and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro and abstentions from PSD, CH and PS André Pinotes Batista.]] Mr Pedro Pinto asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u77	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u78	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u79	I'm sorry, Mr President, but I can't register.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u80	Mr President, it is difficult to register if you are not here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u81	It's true, Mr. President, I'm late. But now I'd like to explain that it was because I came from the hospital. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u82	It's confirmed he's here. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 1016 / XIV / 3. a ( CH) — The fourth amendment is made to Law No 39 / 2009 of 30 July, and by the repeal of Ordinance No 159 / 2020 of 26 June, which lays down the applicable rules on the abbreviated designation of the applicant. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and BE were rejected, votes against the CH and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the IL.]] Mrs. Joana Lima, you asked for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u83	Mr President, it is to announce to the House that a written statement of vote will be submitted on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Members Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carlos Brás, Rosário Gambôa and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-10.u84	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, tomorrow we will have plenary meeting, beginning at 3 p.m., whose agenda was required by the CDS-PP, with discussion of Bills Nos 886 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Termination of the exceptional regime for flexible enforcement of penalties and free measures in the field of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19, as set out in Law No 9 / 2020 of 10 April, and 885 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Repeal of Law No 9 / 2020 of 10 April on the exceptional regime for flexible enforcement of penalties and free measures under the COVID-19 disease pandemic to be followed by a possible vote at the end of the proceedings. Thank you very much to everyone and until tomorrow. [[It was 16 hours and 59 minutes.]]
