ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, to whom I would like to congratulate, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let's start our plenary meeting. [[It was 14 hours and 5 minutes.]] Before we begin the first item on the agenda, Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo will do the favor of reading a set of information that is useful to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by informing the House that the draft resolution No 1113 / XIV / 2 was withdrawn by its proposer. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government allow students to conduct national examinations for the purpose of improving the final classification, and that drafts No 697 / XIV / 2 were not admitted to the Bureau. a ( CH) and 711 / XIV / 2. a ( CH). I now announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, Bill Nos 80 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 81 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which drops to 7. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau and were admitted, Law Projects No. 581 / XIV / 2. a ( Citizens ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 747 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), 753 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 755 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 756 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 757 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 758 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 759 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 760 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 761 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 762 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), lowering to 8. the Commission, 763 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 764 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 765 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 766 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 767 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which goes down to 10. the Commission, 768 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 769 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 770 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission. I also note that Resolution Projects Nos 1114 / XIV / 2 have been accepted. a ( ENP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1139 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 4. the Commission, 1141 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1142 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1143 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 4. the Commission, 1144 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1146 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 1147 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 1148 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 3. the Commission, 1149 / XIV / 2. a ( CH), 1150 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which fall to 10. the Commission, 1151 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1152 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 1153 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1154 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 1155 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 1156 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 1157 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 1158 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), down to 9. the Commission, 1159 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1160 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 1161 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 1162 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 1163 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1165 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 13. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u3	Thank you, Secretary Sofia Araújo, for the extensive information you have given to the plenary. Let us therefore get on the agenda, the first of which consists in the debate, with the presence of the Government, on Portugal's participation in permanent structural cooperation, in accordance with Article 42 ( 6 ). Article 46. the Treaty on European Union, pursuant to Article 4 ( 1 ( b ). the Act No 43 / 2006 of 25 August 2006 — Monitoring, assessment and pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union. To open the debate, Mr. Minister of National Defence João Gomes Cravinho has the floor, which I also use to greet and greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The national participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation, in the field of security and defence, and in the European Defence Fund ( EDF ) correspond to a strategic priority in a global context marked by strong geopolitical competition and new threats. The vast majority of European countries, including Portugal, can only provide an effective and financially sustainable response to many of these challenges if they make joint investments in the development of new means. The commitments of Permanent Structured Cooperation ( CEP ) represent a more efficient spending bet on defence, reflecting the concerns of citizens, especially in a context of economic crisis, and are, above all, guided by the basic principle that each State has only one set of forces and capacities that should be used rationally in the different commitments made in the different multilateral and bilateral frameworks. The system that we created for national participation in the PESCO projects ( Permanent Structured Cooperation ), or Permanent Structured Cooperation, which were developed in the three vacancies launched so far, settled in the evaluation of three dimensions: first, the priorities of the National Defence Policy ; second, the operational interest of the projects, i.e. the valorization or filling of capacity gaps; third, the interest of projects from the point of view of the national defence industry. The strategic review of the PESCO, which was completed in November 2020, identified some difficulties in relation to various projects and this will result in a triage of the least promising so that energy and possible financing are mainly directed at projects that show more traction, more development capacity in the participating countries. Regardless of this necessary screening, it is noteworthy that about half of the ongoing projects will show tangible progress up to 2025. Portugal leads two projects, participates in more eight, in areas as relevant as cyberdefense, maritime surveillance and safety, training or military mobility, and is still an observer in 17 other projects. The EU Cyber Academy and Innovation Hub ( CAIH) project, led by Portugal, has its initial operational capacity for the fourth quarter of 2022 and the final operational capacity for the first quarter of 2024. The second project led by Portugal, the Maritime Unmaned Anti-Submarine System ( MUSA ), will have its operational requirements and environmental performance defined throughout 2021. It will reach initial operational capacity in 2023 and final operational capacity in 2026. Another aspect to be highlighted this last year was the political agreement reached for the participation of third States in the PESCO. It makes sense, in terms of reciprocity, of course, to associate with the development of European defence, of course, our US allies and to safeguard the presence of non-European Union entities in the European economic system, as is the case with the very important participation in Portugal of EMBRAER within the framework of the GMO — Aeronautics Industry of Portugal, S.A. An important example of this is the draft military mobility which is led by the Netherlands and in which Portugal participates, providing for the Council's decision on the participation of the United States, Canada and Norway in this project, on the occasion of the Council of Defence Ministers of the European Union, on 6 May. at the level of national planning, it is noteworthy that Portugal focuses investments on cooperative projects and organized according to areas identified as priorities. More precisely, we seek to ensure the alignment of the commitments made under the PESCO and the programmes that precede the EDF with our defence planning, within the NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) and with the investments provided for in the Military Programming Act. Regarding investment levels, I would like to stress that, since 2014, there has been an increase of around 26 % in defence investment in Portugal. In 2020, an estimated percentage of GDP ( gross domestic product) of 1, 59 % of defence investment was reached. Portugal is expected to reach 1, 66% of GDP in defence, investment, research and development expenditure in 2024. Our work within the framework of Permanent Structured Cooperation is one of the mechanisms that enable us to ensure the effectiveness of this investment, whether in terms of capabilities for our Armed Forces or in terms of return to our defence industry. As for how we organize ourselves, I remember that in 2019 the monitoring group for Portugal's participation in the PESCO, the so-called GAPP-PESCO, with inter-ministerial participation and a link to the national industry and the national scientific and technological system. Experience has been very positive, because it allows us to place within the process of reflection and decision-making the different contributions of the State and also of science and industry. That is precisely why we will now consolidate this instrument of national coordination with a resolution of the Council of Ministers, rather than a simple order, by setting up a committee for Portuguese participation in the European defence economy. Finally, and taking into account the competences of the National Defence Commission and the importance of developing an extended debate on the role of Portugal in European defence, especially when Portugal assumes the Presidency of the European Union, I would like to express the availability of the Ministry of National Defence for a public event on this important issue, together with the National Defence Commission, of course, if the Commission considers it useful. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u5	Let's move on to the debate. Mr Lara Martinho has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State: The Portuguese Presidency of the European Union takes place in a particularly difficult period. If we were already living in an uncertain, complex and changing world, the pandemic we cross has accentuated these weaknesses and revealed new world tensions. Today, a more strategically emancipated European Union is required, better protected and capable of acting autonomously, a European Union with a more active role in security and defence. We are in the middle of the Portuguese Presidency, with an ambitious agenda in the area of security and defence, an agenda that promotes Portugal's potential in strategic areas for the future of the Union, and it is also important to know the developments achieved in the four priorities: the European Union's relationship with Africa ; maritime security; the European Union's relationship with NATO and the creation of a European defence identity. As for the first priority, our historical relationship with Africa puts us in a particularly special position to deepen the European Union-Africa relationship. We need to strengthen the European Union's operational capacity in African missions and enhance the European Peace Support Mechanism. We must also ensure that the European Union supports Mozambique in the fight against terrorism in the north of the country, which is getting worse every day. Portugal has unique conditions to contribute to a very close dialogue with the Mozambican authorities. The European Union must affirm itself as an actor for the promotion of peace and security in Africa. European security is also closely linked to maritime safety. The Gulf of Guinea is the most dangerous sea in Africa and the Atlantic is increasingly an area of geopolitical competition. The operationalization of coordinated maritime presences in the Gulf of Guinea and the opening of the Atlantic Centre in the Azores may make a significant contribution, but we must continue to do more to affirm the European Union as a maritime security actor. The European Union must be a pillar of maritime safety. As regards cooperation between the European Union and NATO, clearly there are still areas where cooperation can grow, such as military mobility, cyberdefence, the fight against misinformation or resilience. The new US administration is an opportunity to strengthen this cooperation. It is also imperative that the European Union update its relationship with NATO. As for the fourth priority, the promotion of a robust European defence identity, the Strategic Bus will have an important contribution in this area and must achieve the level of ambition of the European Union as a security producer. Another equally relevant aspect is the European Defence Fund. This Fund will have a decisive role to play in increasing the participation of our small and medium-sized enterprises ( SMEs ) in the European defence economy. In addition, the linkage of this Fund with permanent structured cooperation projects is essential for the development of missing capacities in the Union, at Member State level, crucial to the increase in the Union's strategic autonomy. It is in this context that permanent structured cooperation is of particular importance, as a complementary instrument to achieve the objectives of the European Union and to contribute to NATO. More effective European defence cooperation reinforces NATO's European pillar and is a sign that the European Union also plays a more significant role in its own security. Now, the current security context is marked by technological competition, disruptive technologies, misinformation and threats to open societies. I raise the following question: how is Portugal using the PESCO to respond to this European and national need? Moreover, the development of European defence has created tension in transatlantic relations. Permanent Structured Cooperation and the European Defence Fund in particular have been criticized as protective instruments for this emerging European defence market. How does Portugal see this issue and what is being done to improve transatlantic relations and to dispel doubts? Finally, given the invaluable and fundamental contribution that the Armed Forces have made in combating the pandemic, showing the importance of the civil aspect of national defence, it is important to see whether particular attention has been given, in the context of the review of Permanent Structured Cooperation, to projects of dual military and civil contribution, in particular with regard to adaptation to climate change and the capacity to respond to emergencies and disasters. Mrs. Minister, I conclude by stressing that the wager in strategic autonomy, especially in the area of defence and security, is a key factor for Europe to become a heavy political agent in the international scene. The European Union must affirm itself as a global actor. With reference to the challenge left by Mr Minister for National Defence, I am sure that our Defence Commission will have every interest in taking advantage of this opportunity to strengthen this point. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u7	Even during the intervention time of the Socialist Party in this debate, Mrs Cristina Jesus has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Permanent Structured Cooperation effectively represents a radical change in defence and security cooperation in the European Union. Within the framework of the CEP, the Minister said that Portugal participates in 10 projects, leads two and is observer in 17. I would like to ask you what developments can be noted in the last year regarding the projects in which Portugal participates and, essentially, those leading. We also know that the Member States participating in the CEP develop national implementation plans. in this sense, I would like to ask you whether Portugal has already reviewed and updated its National Implementation Plan, regarding its participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation for 2021. If so, what is highlighted in this Portuguese document on Permanent Structured Cooperation? I would also like to point out that in a European Council, High Representative Josep Borrell spoke in the Strategic compass, which is important for crisis management, instruments and capacity building, as well as for partnerships to increase Member States'resilience. in this regard, I would like to ask the Minister what are the main lines guiding the action of the Portuguese Presidency in the process of improving and operating the PESCO and how it can ensure that the European Defence Fund will enter into force quickly. Finally, what role can small and medium-sized enterprises that integrate our defence industry into this initiative, particularly in the areas of technological innovation, job creation and economic revitalization in the post-COVID-19 context? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u9	You now have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Miguel, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, citizens have a new individual perception of their safety. Apart from the traditional dangers, the world faces new threats. The pandemic caused by COVID-19, the threats of the digital world and misinformation are invisible threats, with unpredictable risks, without face or territory. We know what's going to happen and we can't help it. We must therefore work on its prevention and mitigation of its effects. Prevention and combating such threats call on all public actors and all available resources, without institutional complexes or regulatory prejudices. For a global threat, the response must be global and the Armed Forces are part of this response. In the fight against the pandemic caused by the COVID-19, the Armed Forces confirmed that they are a highly targeted and prepared agent to combat these types of threats. The 21st century Armed Forces are not only the guarantor of territorial unity or national sovereignty. They're a lot more than that. The Armed Forces are an active agent in promoting the safety of people in peacetime, particularly in emergency or risk situations. The safety of people and goods is thus assumed as an essential dimension of the social development and the quality of life of the population. But in a country with limited human and material resources, co-adjudication among State officials is an inevitable and resource optimization a necessity. The pandemic was an example of the decisive contribution the Armed Forces can have in this type of mission, but it is necessary to provide the means and create the conditions. Permanent Structured Cooperation and the European Defence Fund are an opportunity we cannot lose, but the debate on Portuguese participation in Cooperation is not the same as we had in 2017. Today, we have a new US administration operating a strategic repositioning with regard to NATO. This will enable the realization of a new transatlantic agenda for the future, where the collective influence of the European Union and NATO, in respect for peace and democratic values, should constitute the fundamental principles of its action. We are in favour of effective cooperation between the European Union and NATO without duplication of resources or means, but we also know that there are certain scenarios in which NATO is not involved but to which Europe is called. Therefore the European Union must be able to develop its own capabilities by eliminating the current scenario of fragmentation of military capabilities and evolving into models of interoperable systems in the European Union. Permanent Structured Cooperation is the first block of the construction of a European Defence Union. If it does, it may be a global solution to the global problems we are facing today, but we need to be conclusive in our efforts. Progress in the implementation of the CEP has not been consistent with the current requirements of the complex international security environment, which is not exhausted by the classic war threats. It is necessary to achieve concrete and tangible results by 2025, without delay. The defence sector needs to be re-industrialized, using the European Defence Fund, with the decentralization of production processes by the Member States. The Portuguese defence industry competes against global giants, so the European Defence Fund cannot be lost in large countries. Rather, it should serve the purpose of the idea of permanent structured cooperation and the joint building of capacities for the creation of a more resilient Europe. Portuguese companies must benefit from the Fund in order to strengthen the capabilities essential to our safety, without forgetting the sea, which is, at the same time, one of the most important strategic resources in our country and also the most challenging to national security. Portugal must therefore lead political action on the sea in Europe, particularly in its security dimension. In matters of maritime safety, the Armed Forces have been, are and will be decisive. But Permanent Structured Cooperation has to get out of the paper and move on to practice. We're preparing the future. What we do for the good of our Armed Forces, we do for the good of Portugal. The Armed Forces are the strategic reserve of the country, the result of its organizational culture, readiness, experience and ease of adaptation to demanding scenarios. But the Armed Forces need adequate means to carry out their missions and it is the defence industry that creates these means. So we need a dynamic and competitive industry. Portugal and the Portuguese industry cannot stand behind the opportunity of the European Defence and Permanent Structured Cooperation Fund, because if our armed forces lose all of us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u11	Before passing the floor to Mr John Vasconcelos of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I just wanted to inform you that we already have quorum for the votes, because 159 Mrs and Mrs. Members are registered. You then have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Mr Secretary of State : At the end of 2017 the Council of the European Union decided to establish permanent structured cooperation in the area of security and defence policy, a mechanism introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon. These policies are not disconnected from the Common Security and Defence Policy, nor from the European Defence Agency, nor from the European Defence Fund. In practical terms, permanent structured cooperation leads to a regular increase in expenditure on defence of Member States, the use of research projects funds, cooperation between military forces in combat scenarios and the strengthening of State militarization. The Left Block, from the very first moment, refused our country to integrate permanent structured cooperation. With the entry into the CEP, Portugal is more dependent and subordinate to European military interests, it will be obliged to invest hundreds of millions of euros in the defence sector, in military weapons or technologies, the so-called war industry, which deserves the applause of the government, PS, PSD and CDS. Although they say the opposite, the CEP is profiled as the embryo of the future European army, with Germany at the helm. It should be recalled that the Portuguese State has already made several commitments to integrate into joint military mechanisms within the framework of the NATO-led National Forces, the European Union, the UN. The Left Block has always rejected the militaristic path and history has shown that the affirmation of international politics around more or less military empires has never led to good results. Financial commitments within the framework of permanent structured cooperation, to add to other expenditure with NATO and other international entities, are pushing our country to rapidly reach 2 % of GDP in defence expenditure, which will lead to a very significant increase in the financial burden in this area. Many millions of euros will be scattered in this way and so much will be lacking in public investment and education policies, in health, digital transition, economic decarbonisation, combating climate change, combating the serious economic and social crisis that afflicts the country due to the pandemic. There will thus be no social convergence in our country the trailer of permanent structured cooperation. The European Commission — with Portugal in an obedient manner — prefers to strengthen money in the defence industries for military purposes, prefers to spend millions on NATO, European Union missions, permanent structured cooperation and the European Intervention Initiative. Today, with the pandemic, social and economic inequalities in Europe, poverty, social exclusion, lack of investment in public services, policies against discrimination, combating unemployment and precariousness, creating jobs are even more pressing. Only for the years 2021 - 2027, the European Defence Fund provides for an appropriation of EUR 13 billion for investments in software and drone-related technologies. This adds up to EUR 10, EUR 5 billion for another booming programme called the European Peace Support Facility. The permanent structured cooperation projects may also benefit from a 10 % increase. But the money for strengthening the European fund is not left here. There will be an additional appropriation of EUR 6, EUR 5 billion for military mobility in the countries of the European Union and an additional EUR 100 billion for another research and defence programme called Horizon Europe. In total there are more than EUR 130 billion for defence. It seems that Portugal had as its minimum objective to make 200 million euros available to the European Defence Fund. And within the framework of the CEP, it had an additional 25 million for projects in 2020. The Monitoring Group on Participation in the PESCO Projects was established by the Government, with a view to deepening cooperation in the field of defence between Portugal and the other States of the European Union, through the PESCO Projects. Among its various tasks is one aimed at filling gaps within NATO and / or the European Union, promoting complementarity. After all, the PESCO projects aim at the military reinforcement of NATO and the European Union at the same time. There is a duplication of defence expenditure here. It would be good if you knew how much the Government intends to spend and invest in these areas of permanent structural cooperation and the European Defence Fund this year of 2021. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u13	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the first debate held in this House, in 2017, on the entitled mechanism for permanent structural cooperation, which aims to create a common army in the European Union and to strengthen NATO military capacity, the CFP has made clear its opposition to the participation of Portugal in this mechanism. This cooperation means another step towards European Union federalism, means more interference and imposition on options that must be sovereign, and means another contribution to the militarization of NATO's assumed European pillar. Participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation necessarily compromises our sovereignty. In fact, Portugal compromises its autonomy and independence with regard to the commitment of its forces and the development and acquisition of its military equipment, which are subject to the rules and interests of the European powers that determine the options in which such cooperation should be based. Options that should be sovereign, on the investments to be made in the modernization of the Portuguese Armed Forces, taking into account the pursuit of national interests and the needs arising from the national defence of Portugal, become increasingly subordinated to taxes that are alien to the interests and needs of our country and our people. in a framework where human and material resources are scarce for the constitutional missions to be carried out by the Armed Forces, the creation of a European common army will allocate national resources on the basis of purposes which are foreign to us, instead of applying them in such a way as to equip our Armed Forces with the capacity necessary for the multiplicity of responses that must be given according to our own needs. The CFP rejects this ongoing structured cooperation for all these reasons. We reject Portugal's involvement in an arms race instead of engaging in the dismantling of international relations and in the peaceful resolution of conflicts. Portugal must not accept that the fulfilment of what the Constitution prescribes in the field of international relations and that it constitutes the priority mission of the Portuguese Armed Forces is conditional on the need for mandatory coordination with other countries and abdicating the power to decide what is priority for our country and what is best for our people. Portugal must not accept that the re-equipment of our Armed Forces is sacrificed by the investment priorities intrinsic to the capabilities required by the operations decided under the CEP. Portugal must not accept specializing our Armed Forces according to objectives other than national interest. For the Portuguese State, it is essential to preserve freedom of decision on priorities for commitment of financial resources in programmes that may temporarily extend for many years, such as the construction and entry into service of ocean patrol vessels or the acquisition and entry into service of air resources to enable the State to combat fires or to guarantee search and rescue conditions. For the CFP, the national defence policy and the investments to be carried out in our military programming must be determined by national interests and not by other interests which not only have nothing to do with the interests of the Portuguese people and the country as they are contradictory to them. For the CFP, what corresponds to the interest of European peoples is a Europe of effective cooperation between sovereign and equal countries in rights, peace, the demilitarization of international relations and not this path of militarization which dangerously leads to interference, destruction and war. [[PEV MP José Luís Ferreira applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u15	I now give the floor to Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we are having today on parliamentary follow-up on permanent structural cooperation is relevant for us to make a point of the situation on how this European process is developing. I remember the position of the CDS from the outset and, in fact, presented a draft resolution on this matter — that which was approved — which clearly states the position of the CDS with regard to Permanent Structured Cooperation. We understand that Portugal must participate, it must be active in this Permanent Structured Cooperation, provided that the principle of the Portuguese Armed Forces specialty is respected and that there is no federalist path to a European army. In other words, we do not accept a replacement of national defence policy by a European defence policy, but we believe that there are advantages in defence cooperation between the Member States of the European Union. So we are asking some questions that have to do with this process. Recently, the EPC project, European Patrol Corvette, was launched to support the European Defence Agency in dealing with migration and involving States that have been most pressured by migratory flows. We know that this is not the case with Portugal, but we also know that it is not unheard of that this has happened at our borders and that it is probably not indifferent that we participate in this project. We know that the Minister of Internal Administration, unfortunately, has very little sensitivity to this matter, although it is largely the protection of this Ministry. We want to know whether, from the point of view of the Ministry of National Defence and within the framework of permanent structured cooperation, there is or is no sensitivity to the importance of this initiative and the possible participation of Portugal in it. Then, a reflection on the mobilization for a cooperative project for the operational provision of forces for emergency situations, such as the one currently living in Cabo Delgado. In other words, there must have been a link between, and not just according to the situation, European forces capable of projecting themselves for this type of emergency missions, in accordance with the agreement that is made with the sovereign States where such action may take. Finally, the question of the internal market of the military industry, which is intrinsically linked to this matter. The Government has launched ( and Mr Minister has just said so ) two years ago, a follow-up group on the participation of Portugal. We agree with many of the priorities that have been set, namely the priority in the cyber area, but we believe that there is something that is still to be clarified and that is very relevant. This reorganization of the internal market of the military industry will have consequences in the military industries in Portugal. Now, with a movement of relocations, centralizations and economies of scale at the military industry level, it is essential to know how the Government assesses that this will be reflected in the military industries in Portugal. It is these reflections that we consider important at the moment, respecting the principle that I initially stated, namely that Portugal must participate but of course cannot challenge its sovereignty in the area of defence.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u17	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u18	Good afternoon, Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: One of the main priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union on defence concerns the relations of the European Union with Africa, which cannot fail to be on the agenda of permanent structured cooperation. And it cannot fail to be because in the European Union there is a disturbing and disturbing silence for two parts of the African continent: the Virunga Forest, located in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Rwanda, where more than 15 thousand armed terrorist militias plant terror, with attacks and loots to villages of the region, with kidnappings and deaths of NGO activists (non-governmental organizations), tourists and diplomats and with illegal trafficking of ivory and gorilla meat, with abductions of children who are placed as sexual slaves, when they are girls, or educated in terror, with the placing of fists in their hands, when they are boys. In Mozambique, for three years terrorist forces have been planting fear and violence, with thousands of barbaric deaths, including the beheading of children, with torture, with more than 700,000 displaced, as well as forced marriages, rape and slavery of women and children. The Mozambican Government itself and its militias attack civilian populations who find themselves allied with terrorist forces. In the face of these serious humanitarian crises, it is urgent, in our view, that the Government ensure humanitarian intervention that guarantees food support for the people, that it helps NGOs in the field to reach out to the people and that it can pacify these regions. What I'd like to ask you. Ministers are whether Virunga and Cabo Delgado will, or not, be placed by Portugal on the agenda of Permanent Structured Cooperation or whether we will continue not to use the influence we have on the presidency of the Council of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u19	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of National Defence : I begin by recalling that the Greens have always opposed Portugal's participation in permanent structural cooperation, and even propose that the Assembly of the Republic reject our country's accession to this body. The scrutiny of participation in various projects is important, but, of course, we maintain our criticisms, especially when we realize that such cooperation does not contribute anything to the promotion of peace in the world. Until, essentially, the European Union's choice in this matter is reduced to strengthening militarization, complicity and even participation in aggressions and interferences, making it increasingly clear that this body represents a step towards the construction of a European army and a business for the military industry, while at the same time withdrawing capacity to respond to the problems and interests of the people, in fact contrary to the principles of solidarity and cooperation which the European project continues to advocate. As for us, it is not at least acceptable for defence and militarization to be a priority when there are so many problems to be solved, such as humanitarian measures for those who flee war and hunger. So we ask: what priority is this that changes solidarity for militarism? In fact, citizens need another kind of protection and cooperation, but they are failing across the line and the pandemic has only brought to light the fragility and inconsistencies to which the Greens have always warned. In addition, the Council itself points out that although they face financial challenges as a result of the crisis caused by the COVID-19, Member States are encouraged to strengthen their contribution to a European collaborative approach, i.e. to the acquisition of military equipment and investment in military research and technology. For this reason, Minister for Defence, I would like to hear about this participation. Is it indeed a priority, especially when there are so many answers that people need and that the country is not able to give, particularly in the face of the situation we are living with the COVID-19 pandemic?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u22	Let's move on to the closure. I call on the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs to greet and greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u23	Mr President, my greetings also to you, and on behalf of the Government, I thank you for the speeches of the parliamentary groups. I would naturally like to refer to the importance of permanent structural cooperation for European policy, the common security and defence policy of Europe and its link with European foreign policy. In fact, permanent structured cooperation is a very important instrument—not the only one, but it is very important—for four essential objectives of this policy. The first is strategic clarity and, indeed, we are developing an exercise on the European Union's strategic compass, which in turn combines well with the exercise we do in the framework of the Atlantic alliance under the motto 'NATO 2030'. This strategic clarity is essential so that the Common Security and Defence Policy in Europe can progress. The second objective is intra-European cooperation, i.e. cooperation between Europeans; cooperation between the European Union and NATO, avoiding duplication of resources and commitment to complementarity, cooperation with other very important partners for the European Union, starting from the UK, but also with partners on other continents. The third objective is better coordination and, in it, the dimension of strengthening the interoperability of forces and resources is absolutely essential. Finally, the fourth objective is to gain a scale, because only by gaining a scale will we not only be more efficient in resource management but also more cost-effective in using taxpayers' money and can we build and develop the European industrial base, thus increasing the importance of the European defence capacity pillar. But all this is done with clear missions that are not militaristic in nature. Missions are: ensuring our collective defence; promoting our security, including human security; contributing to cooperative security; contributing to stability. In reply to a specific question from a Member who is no longer present, I say: Yes, the Portuguese Presidency has put the North of Mozambique, since the first hour, as one of its priorities, and, yes, this is not done within the framework of permanent structural cooperation, it is done within the framework of the European Union. Yesterday the meeting of ambassadors validated the first political outcome of the mission developed in Maputo and therefore the preparation of a European Union support mission in Mozambique, in its fight against terrorism, continues and will reach a good port. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u24	To close the debate, if you can say so, you have the floor of Mr. Minister of National Defence, João Gomes Cravinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the many questions raised, some of which required a development that will not be possible within the short time available. However, I will make a few comments on these questions. First of all, I would like to mention the importance of permanent structured cooperation and cooperation within the European Union in defence matters, including the European Defence Fund, for the better preparation of our economy and our defence in technological terms. of the nearly EUR 8 billion affected by the European Defence Fund, some 2600 million are devoted to research and development. This is an extraordinary opportunity for our defence industries, not just. Of this amount, 4 % to 8 % are for disruptive technologies, i.e. for new technologies, which are transformative in the world in which we live. They are technologies that typically have military applications and also civil applications. I would also like to mention the importance of maritime safety, highlighted by two Members at least. Indeed, it is a central issue for the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union, it is a further value which Portugal brings to the European identity of defence, essentially continental, and I believe that with the project we have come to support coordinated maritime presences in the Gulf of Guinea we can make the difference and open a new space for the cooperation of the European Union, now also in the maritime field, to strengthen the security of Europe and the seas, which interests everyone who uses them. There was also a reference to civil-military cooperation, done by more than one Member, inspired by the experience we continue to experience in combating the pandemic. Throughout Europe we have seen that the armed forces have been predominant in fighting the pandemic. This leads us, of course, to consider the possibility of future civil emergencies where the equipment and capabilities of the armed forces of other countries are needed and therefore we believe that this experience can lead us to deepen the opportunities for cooperation between the European Armed Forces, in the context of combating civil emergencies. Finally, regarding comments related to something that is at the centre of Permanent Structured Cooperation, which is support for the defence industries. Our defence industries, it is essential to say it, are a very important lever for the development of the country and does not resist an analysis, even if superficial, of the dichotomous idea that we have to choose between defence industries and social investments. Our defence industries are typically very innovative, they generate skilled jobs, they are fundamental for the modernization of some sectors of our economy and here I refer to the importance that the government attaches to generating new investment for the Alfeite, an importance which is, in fact, often referred to in the Assembly of the Republic... [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] ...and that, as a matter of fact, counts as a support to defence industries. So what we need to keep in mind when we think about the defence industries is the contribution they can make to our economy, to our citizens, in terms of generating employment and economic impulse, and our involvement in permanent structured cooperation represents precisely an opportunity that Portugal is taking advantage of. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u26	We thus reached the end of the first item on the agenda, which consisted of a debate on Portugal's participation in permanent structural cooperation. Congratulation and farewell to the gentlemen. Members of the Government, wishing everyone a good Easter. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the second point, which is made up of political statements, to which I give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Like all the processes that side with the importance of public interest, the process of the new airport in Lisbon was born wrong and, although it is said that « what is born wrong, late or never right», The Greens consider that, in the case of the airport, we are still in time to contradict this statement. So there is political will and, above all, willingness to restore the public interest at the heart of the decision. And we are still in time, even though the process continues to be wrong, still today, with the limitation to two locations for the strategic environmental assessment and, above all, with the insistence on the Montijo location. A government hemorrhage that is not understood and that leaves us without knowing whether the idea of maintaining the Montijo in the equation is a requirement of the PSD, to make possible the change to the decree law with a view to withdrawing competence from local authorities, or whether it is a requirement of ANA / Vinci, which wants at all the cost that the airport goes to Montijo. In fact, when it is placed in the hands of the private interest, the ability to choose the location of an airport cannot be expected, and much less demand, that this choice has met the criteria where the public interest has prevailed or, at least, has been equationed. If it is a multinational choice of location, it will, of course, do so on the basis of its own interests and not on the basis of the public interest. ANA / Vinci has long realized that it is intended to prolong or intensify the use of Portela as the main asset and complement the play with the Montijo addition, but for further efforts to justify the continuation of the Montijo in the equation, the Government cannot lose sight of the reasons that led to the decision to build a new airport in Lisbon, i.e. to respond to our airport needs and solve the problem that represents the stay of Portela airport within the city of Lisbon. However, in addition to not solving the problem of long-term airport needs, Montijo does not solve the problem of Portela and, on the contrary, perpetuates its stay. That is, Montijo doesn't solve any of the problems, it doesn't solve anything, except the interests of Vinci. So we run the risk of standing in front of this unusual situation: we decide to build an airport to solve two problems and we keep an option that doesn't solve any of them. But is this serious? Oh, my God! Is this a statement of public interest? No, of course not. This is building an airport thinking about the interests of a private group. Therefore, we believe that the locations to be considered in the strategic environmental assessment for the construction of the new Lisbon airport must first respond to the two problems that motivated their construction and, if so, Montijo cannot be part of the equation. There is good sense, there are concerns about the public interest. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as we know, this House approved a Greens proposal requiring the Government to undertake a strategic environmental assessment for the location of the new Lisbon airport. And it does not cease to be curious that, on the very day on which the regulator completely denies the request for the construction of the airport in Montijo, the Government announces on that same day that this assessment is limited to two locations, being one of the Montijo and above, at a double dose. And, as the government did the announcement without justifying the reasons for these choices, the strategic environmental assessment process starts wrong. The Government begins precisely by adulterating one of the principles for which this important instrument is governed: transparency. In other words, the Government looks at the strategic environmental assessment not as a way of correcting the error, or seeing in it, even an instrument that combines the location of the airport with the public interest, but as an opportunity to continue to have Montijo on the radar of the locations and thus continue to feed the interests of multinational Vinci. In fact, it was not by chance that a group of scientists recently sent a letter to the Government asking for an extended and well-founded and unconditional environmental assessment. In the view of these experts, this assessment should have underlying a process with a comprehensive definition of scope, strictly grounded, based on the development of a truly strategic culture, with the incorporation of environmental values and giving priority to cooperation and dialogue. They call for the evaluation to integrate, without wheels or ambiguities, the scientific knowledge obtained so far on defined locations, at the risk of a strategic environmental assessment only to meet formal requirements, ignoring the defence of environmental heritage values and grossly violating the European commitments that Portugal has made in this regard. A note on the amendment to the law to withdraw powers from local authorities only because they issue opinions which do not please the government. It is an option of the Government, but an option that the Government did not wish to take and therefore sent the case to the Assembly of the Republic. And we think it is right that the Government intends to bring the PSD into discussion, given the responsibilities it has in the process, particularly with the privatisation of ANA (Aeroports and Air Navigation — Airports in Portugal ), but that would also happen if the Government were to pass the decree, because, as it is public, this diploma would be subject to parliamentary scrutiny and, therefore, by that way too, the PSD would be obliged to "give the saying by no means", which, in fact, it can now say, without laughing, that this amendment does not have to do with the specific case of this airport. I finish as I began: we are still in time to bring the public interest to the center of the discussion around the airport location. Let us make a serious and true assessment, also bearing in mind the reasons that led to the decision to build a new airport to Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u28	Five were registered. Members to make requests for clarification. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, how do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u29	Mr President, I will respond to a first group of three requests for clarification and then to a second group of two.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u30	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, there is a starting point which, in Mr. Deputies' speech, we welcome and wish to emphasise here: the political and strategic option that is placed in the country for the future of the current airport of Lisbon, Humberto Delgado Airport, in Portela, and what should have already been equationed is that this airport should not be placed, as it was in another process of increasing operations, with the extension again of its use to increase the airport operating horizon and increase the pressure on those who live, work and study in Lisbon. This is an issue that is indissociable from the whole debate, in which we note that multinational Vinci took note of ANA-Aeroports wanting to do, as it was said, the « golden egg chicken ». We should not look at the airport network and investment in a strategic sector for our sovereignty. By 2008, there was a location option defined by the State and by the then Government PS, with strategic environmental assessment carried out, with favorable environmental impact assessment and declaration, with all municipalities making it appear favorable to this option, which was the Alcochete Shooting Camp. Today, that same law, which seems to be a problem for the government — sorry, multinational Vinci... — is a law that the PSD and PS are quick to change. But that law was not a problem in the past, it is now that it is, because there are unfavorable opinions of the authorities and there is a PS authority that has not even spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u32	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u33	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr President, what is the central issue, and which I am putting to you in the background, is the following: are we facing a central problem, which is the privatisation of ANA-Aeroports of Portugal, and the subservience of the government and the PSD to this multinational?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u34	You have the floor, also for a request for clarification, Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Vinci’s business with the construction of the airport in Montijo is disassembled when we understand the following: to the 10 check-in counters that the Montijo airport will have to compare the 150 check-in counters that Portela airport will have to have; the 2400 m track that Montijo airport will not even give to Ryanair’s biggest aircraft, while the Portela runway will be increased to receive the largest aircraft that exist; of the investment of EUR 1,3 billion, which is claimed as the major investment in the region, the main factor is to increase Portela airport’s capacity. Therefore, this Montijo business is a way to stabilize Portela airport as a definitive airport, which has always been a provisional airport, in the center of the city of Lisbon, without any alternative, with enormous damage to the environment, to the population and to the national strategic interest, which is done without a strategic environmental assessment, which is mandatory, increasing its capacity without an environmental impact declaration, which would also be mandatory. Suddenly, the strategic environmental assessment, which was mandatory, but which has never been done, has always been ignored, appears here as a magic pass when the PSD seems to require it as a counterparty to change the law that gives power to the authorities that are affected by this investment and to withdraw that power to the authorities that have already made it appear negative or did not appear to be any. All this is confirmed as a big central block business. I conclude by asking, Mr Member, if it is not true that what the country needs is a strategic environmental assessment that studies alternatives to a new Lisbon airport, because the worst we could do, 50 years later, or more, in search of new locations, was to fall into the mistake of making a low-cost airport with short short-term views. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u36	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I welcome your speech and the subject you have discussed. In fact, what the Government of the Socialist Party wants to do is a fictitious strategic environmental assessment, which does not comply with the good practices and recommendations of the European Union in this area and which only compares two locations: the Montijo, which is a good solution for cruises, and the Alcochete solution. It will compare two options, in which one of them, Montijo's, is illegal, in accordance with the opinion of ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Authority), which, in fact, Mr. Prime Minister, António Costa, had said he would respect, but after all he would not. You may not respect it, because you always have the PSD to give you your hand, because you always have the Socialist Party's B team to give you your hand.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u38	Who approved the Budget, sir? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u39	I ask you, Mr President, what is the position of the Greens with regard to the fact that the strategic environmental assessment must be a serious study, which includes Beja's option, and which is not, like the Socialist Party, conditional and addicted to the interests of ANA. We know that Beja is an option with less environmental impacts, because the airport is already built, which would force the construction of a high-speed rail link, which would shorten the travel time between Beja and Lisbon for 40 minutes, and which would obviously allow the development of the region and the increase of territorial cohesion, which the Socialist Party so much speaks about. Mr. Prime Minister came here to say that the distance was an exclusion factor from Beja airport when we have several international European airports with distances of more than 100 km. So, honourable Member, what is the Greens' position on the inclusion of Beja in a strategic environmental assessment? We'd like to know.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u40	To reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking you for the clarification requests that have been made to me by the honourable Members. Deputies Bruno Dias, PCP, Joana Mortágua, Bloc de Left, and André Silva, PAN. Mr Bruno Dias, the future of Portela Airport must of course be considered. In fact, as I said recently, one of the reasons that led to the decision to build a new airport in Lisbon was, exactly, to solve the problem of Portela airport. We have the problem that is linked, as you say, to the privatisation of ANA — that is the problem. It is not surprising that the PSD also has the responsibility to hand over to the Government in the adoption of the decree. And there is no point in asking who approved the Budget, because the State budget did not present any amendments to the diploma that confers powers on local authorities. Therefore, the PSD also has many responsibilities in the matter, particularly in the privatisation of ANA. And here's the problem: ANA wants the Montijo option and we run the risk of having to do it. "We" between quotes, because we know who is going to make it possible to change the diploma in order to gain competence from the local authorities. Mr Bruno Dias, your question also relates to the question put by Mrs Joana Mortágua regarding the increase in Portela airport capacity. This is the great goal of ANA / Vinci. This is the big deal in the small business of Montijo airport : perpetuating Portela airport within the city of Lisbon, which is absolutely condemned. We already have some suspicions, and more than you suspect, about this process, because on the very day when the regulator completely denied the request for the construction of the airport, the government already had the solution for the environmental impact assessment, which is at least strange. Mr André Silva, in the course of the process, to be the one to be guessed, of course we will have to agree that this is a fictitious strategic environmental assessment. In fact, we have no basis for choosing the two locations. Mr. Minister was unable to give it, because he may not have it. It is therefore wrong to begin the evaluation process, because one of the basic instruments of this strategic environmental assessment is precisely transparency, and it begins to fail, since no one understands why those two locations were chosen. We know why Montijo is there. We know that it was the ANA, or the PSD, that demanded it — the PSD also has to justify the scramble it is giving in this matter. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, Mr President, we are open to all possibilities for study. And the solution found, if the strategic environmental assessment is well conducted, if it is serious, will be respected and will be applauded by the Greens. If it is serious, within what is reasonable, and do not already limit the options that are on the table, still above with double dose in the case of Montijo. Be patient!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u42	We will move on to the second round of requests for clarification to Mr. José Luís Ferreira. To that end, Mr André Pinotes Batista of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u43	Mr President, I would like to congratulate all the Members of the House and address myself directly to Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP, but also to the CFP, who are presenting themselves in this debate with the absolute certainty that nothing the State does is serious. This principle of distrust is something we have to refute from the outset, because there are three assurances on the dossier of increasing the airport capacity of Lisbon: it is indispensable for the region, it is indispensable for the country and it is indispensable for our tourism. In fact, I would also like to invite you. Members of the ENP and of the CFP meet with industry associations and ask them about the difficulties that are going on with this pandemic and about the lack of tourism, which, unfortunately, we cannot overcome. There is therefore a certainty that we have: the increase in airport capacity is indispensable for the national economy and the region. But there is also another certainty that we are left with today: the only study, the only evaluation, the only thing that can serve the ENP and the PCP is the evaluation that says what you want to hear. This is the only thing that can come to pass, because you are starting from a principle of distrust. You ask for a study, ask for an evaluation, this evaluation is being designed and you have the government's commitment not to advance without the parameters and with all transparency, but you already know that it is not serious or rigorous... and why? Because you don't say what you want me to say. Most notable is the fact that we have come to say that we are only evaluating two locations. For now, it's not two, it's three locations. But the question is this: would you like to evaluate 17 locations? Oh, my God! Isn't it enough that we've been trying to increase airport capacity for more than 50 years now? Oh, my God! How many more would you like to assess to be happy? We know : they wanted to evaluate one, which is your truth, your solution and your fight. They do not want to impose on the country, in a minority way, what is being studied. And, please, let's listen to scientific knowledge, let's hear technical knowledge, and we're not going to start to refuse something just because she doesn't say what we want to hear. Mr President, I conclude with the following note: the expansion of airport capacity is a national design that has to be taken over by all. The populations of Setúbal district, all Portuguese need this to have more development and more living conditions. Portugal cannot continue to hesitate. And you are making a contribution that is to delay and not to develop. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u44	Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u45	Mr President, I would like to make a previous note to Mr André Silva. Mr President, I realized today one of the reasons you did not publish when you announced your abandonment of this House: you have a rebuttal and resentment on your own. That is who the PSD that you are talking about is the people, the PCP, the BE and the ENP, who have been supporting this government for six years. So I realize that you have that regret, that resentment. But that is a problem that goes beyond me, and you will have to deal with it. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I congratulate you on the topic and the opportunity for your intervention, which allows us to look forward. It is that we are only in this situation because, over six years, there has been someone who has not done his part. We are repeatedly discussing and launching the same matters, and this cannot continue. In 2015, to close this file, there was a lack of environmental impact study and approval of the municipalities involved—and this went very slowly. We had to wait until the end of the legislature in 2019 to meet the environmental impact study on the location of the airport in Montijo and, only this year, we heard about the decision of the municipalities. We are only here because, unfortunately, the government that you have endured over the years has not been able to do what had to be done. This is the history. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u46	Now, looking forward, to reassure you, what we stand for is very clear: we really need a strategic environmental assessment. More, we need a national strategic plan for the airport sector. And, perhaps, in these matters, we even agree. Since the incompetence of this government, which you have endured, Budget behind Budget, has led to the same being unable to unlock this, let us look forward, without any dogma and, above all, very focused on what is essential. This is what we defend. And if this is successfully concluded transparently and within the scope of this very well-defined strategic environmental assessment, we have, as already announced, equalized the legislation that gives the municipalities the power to veto because, in fact, it is abusive, when we are talking about investments that have national impact. Our understanding of the matter is this. We are very sorry, very much, that we are at this point. But let us not forget, Mr President, that the privatization of airports was on the front line of the chapter on the privatization of the troika which the Socialist Government of José Socrates signed with international creditors and that there was no tow to make either airport or other. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u47	In reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u48	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking you for your clarifications. Mr André Pinotes Batista, PS, and Emídio Guerreiro, PSD. Mr. André Pinotes Batista, you say we make the accusation that nothing the state does is serious. Mr, of course we cannot confuse the State with the Government. But in this way we must congratulate ourselves on the decision taken by the regulator, and we applaud him because he is also a State. Therefore, do not say that everything the State does is serious, because from the outset, to confuse the State with the government is no longer good. Then we stayed here today to hear from Mr André Pinotes Batista something that remains in the annals of our records: is that there is no tourism if the location of the airport is not in Montijo. It's awful! The honourable Member here draws attention to the situation of tourism and restoration companies and even seems that if the location of the airport is not at Montijo, there will be no tourism in Portugal. On the other hand, you do not know where we stand because we do not defend any particular location. If strategic environmental assessment is done with responsibility and seriousness, we will respect this result. When you talk about scientific knowledge, I also have to ask you something. Strategic environmental assessment has as one of the central elements transparency. And if you are in a position to answer me, is you not, because you are not going to use the floor, and you are not going to answer questions, but I am going to let you do so? Perhaps you know what was the basis for this, but we do not know. So, if we don't know, we don't know why the government just remembered those two locations. He also says that we are delaying the process. Delaying the trial? Oh, my God! Mr Deputy, this government was warned a year and a half ago that the regulator has no alternative to the outright denial of the request for the construction of the airport. I said, here, in the plenary, a year and a half ago! And the government has been waiting a year and a half for then to say that it will now make a strategic environmental assessment. So a year and a half was the time the government delayed the case. Mr. Emídio Guerreiro, regarding the strategic environmental assessment, Mr. I have to tell you again the following: we have never made it possible for a budget to withdraw rights, to remove holidays, and out there. But I am also telling you something else: in this budget I read it carefully, and the honourable Member, perhaps also reading it, is not an article that intends to amend the decree of law to which you now have the courage to say, without laughing, that they are going to make a change and that this amendment has nothing to do with the airport process. That's a fantastic thing! You see, now, with the conversation of a municipality in Porto or Bragança... No, Mr. Deputies, it's nothing like that! They have to be the municipalities potentially affected. But I understand that you feel the need to justify the dome you're going to give. They're gonna say it because they don't say it, because they also have to do something. But we will be here to see at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u49	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The pandemic does not suspend democracy. The state of emergency and successive renewals have limited some of our rights and freedoms, but it has not suspended democracy and its essential pillars, which make Portugal, in the European context, one of the countries that most resisted the attacks on democracy we see in other countries. And for this, it has been essential to preserve the core of our constitutional values. The previous crisis, managed by PSD and CDS, has often been – it is good to remember – against the Constitution, cutting rights and incomes, running over essential values of the rule of law, which led to 11 leaders of the Constitutional Court. at that time, Parliament heard itself in the defense of the Constitution, and it was the Constitution that forced the Government of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas to retreat in some of the most radical measures for families and people, measures that attacked income, pensions and wages. So here we are today, the Socialist Party, to strengthen our defense of democracy, understanding that this defense is made, responding with a strong social state to whom it most needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government's response to the pandemic was crucial to, in the first phase, do everything to save lives, ensuring that no one would lose access to the National Health Service ( SNS ). at the same time, we protect employment and guarantee the strengthening of social benefits or the creation of new benefits to help the most vulnerable, making at least one quarter of the Portuguese population covered by social and economic measures to combat the crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The social state has been tested and answered; it has responded in the first few days and has responded over the past few months. In fact, this crisis has proved to the most skeptical that only a strong and robust social state is capable of responding to the needs that a crisis with these dimensions causes. We do not want the invisible hand, but, yes, public policies. We do not want the market and save it who can say that the weakest are on the side of the road. We do not want a welfare state that abandons people. That is why, to these, the socialists respond with the state of social welfare, with which we have responded to the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] to those who defend a minimal state, the Socialist Party responds with strong public services. to those who talk about freedom to attack the state, we ask what freedom they would have those who without the state would inevitably stay behind. That is why we were certain when, in the previous legislation, we strengthened the sustainability of social security, with the increase in incomes, the strengthening of the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security and the diversification of sources of funding, against the right opinion, in order to respond to the most vulnerable, those who have worked their whole lives, the younger and those who have entered the labour market. Over the past few months, we have demonstrated the gigantic problems we have faced over the past year that the protection of income, employment and economics has been the priority of the Socialist Party. From the very first moment, the government has increased the unemployment allowance and its extension, increased the social unemployment allowance and guaranteed a new social benefit; it has facilitated procedures; it has ensured support for families with children, while maintaining employment whenever possible, with the layoff, first to 66 % and now to 100 %; it has also found a response for the members-managers of SMEs who, having no support whatsoever, today see their minimum social benefits extended. For one year and up to today, it has been EUR 3341 million in paid social support, including exemptions and tax exemptions, and EUR 2, 8 million in Portuguese and 172 000 protected companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The increase in social expenditure included strengthening the layoff, supporting the economic recovery, creating new extraordinary support for workers' incomes, increasing the unemployment allowance by 25 % to unemployed couples with children or extraordinary support by June 2021 for self-employed workers and partners in culture and tourism, just to mention a few examples. The social security budget for this year has a strengthening of EUR 2000 million compared with the initial budget for 2020, but in order to have a real perception of the achievements of the social protection of the governance of the Socialist Party, we have to say that the budget allocation of social security since 2015 has increased EUR 5, EUR 2 billion — EUR 5, EUR 2 billion! — and do so always, always ensuring the sustainability of social security, so that it responds to the needs of the present, without ever jeopardizing a risk for future generations. in this Parliament, about the State Budget for 2021, over recent times, and in particular during its debate, some said that he was very expensive, that there was more budget, and others that was less, that there was less budget. I would like to say here that, for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, as for the country that follows us and knows what we have done, it is an effort by the State to respond as quickly as possible to the difficulties of the moment, with only one objective, which is to protect those who need it most. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And if these were advances in the State Budget for 2021, the PS wanted to go even further. That is why, in the face of the difficulties with which we live in January and with a defination that we are still beginning, the Government decided to immediately reactivate extraordinary support for the reduction of the activity of self-employed and support for management partners in the same terms and conditions as in 2020. Social security is paying extraordinary support in 10 days. And only by 2021, until 23 March, social security paid EUR 847 million in extraordinary support, i.e. more than 40 % compared to the monthly expenditure of 2020. This is the permanent commitment of the Government and the Socialist Party: to support those who need it most. Support workers, support incomes, support families, support the social protection of those who need it most. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that this compromise finally has its eyes set in the future. It is that the future is won by the realization of social policies that respond to the crisis and that do not divide us as a society, that promote cohesion to prevent impoverished and desperate citizens from being exploited by radical political solutions. But today, as yesterday, this future depends on the sustainability of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u51	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u52	I will finish, Mr. President. This future depends on the financial sustainability of social security and also depends on the ability to preserve the fundamental core of democratic and constitutional values, that we are all here faithful depositors. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u53	Mr President, the Bureau records the registration of six Members. Members to make requests for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u54	Mr President, I will respond to two sets of three.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u55	You have the floor to make the first request for clarification, Mrs Ofélia Ramos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, the Socialist Party has chosen today to bring the debate, and very well, social support. But, Mr President, I have some bad news to give you: however much you say or can say, as it is said in the Minutes, 'there is no water that washes you'. [[PSD applause.]] You voted against strengthening social support, voted against a set of proposals to expand, increase and even create social support that has not been envisaged by the government, voted against support that is absolutely vital for those who have seen their income reduced to almost zero due to the pandemic crisis. of the Socialist Party I would just like to hear here today an act of contrition in front of all those who have left out of the social support approved by the State. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u57	But instead, they shield themselves in a labor law to justify what is not justifiable. They didn't say it, but I know you think so. How is the Socialist Party concerned about the public expenditure target if by 2020 we had a sub-execution of the Supplementary Budget of about EUR 7 billion, of which EUR 700 million relate to subsidies? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u58	Two, one : either the Minister of Finance is absolutely incapable of predicting and assessing needs or, having identified the priorities and properly evaluated needs, he chose, at the time of budgetary implementation, to cut expenditure, as never happened, even though they are authorised by Parliament, these same expenditure. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u59	This is a real scandal, because the government did not support businesses, workers and families, not because the State budget did not allow it, but because the government simply did not want it. But this is no surprise to anyone, because Portugal is one of the countries most affected by the pandemic crisis and is one of the countries that least invests in responding to the crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u60	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u61	Finally, Mr President, Portugal, according to the European Commission, in 2020, was the least invested country in responding to the crisis and in 2021 will be the fourth least invested country in responding to the crisis. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u62	You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u63	Mr. President and Mr. Members, we have heard today Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, complain that during the Troika the Constitutional Court has led the projects of the PSD and the CDS. It is curious that it is the Socialist Party to say this the week in which it is brewing, with the President of the Republic, to bring to the Constitutional Court the social support that was given and due to the self-employed. Let's see if Antonio Costa is not going to get another beer, as happened in relation to the teachers, to say that he can't do it, he doesn't want iron arms and to solve an artificial political crisis. Mr President, I quote your words: « We are the party to the well-being of families, income and the state of social welfare. It would seem funny if it were not tragic, in a country where the tax burden on GDP is 34, 8 % — we knew five days ago — that is the biggest in Europe, they are here saying that they are defending families and incomes. How does it justify, Mr, 34, 8 % tax burden currently in Portugal vis-à-vis GDP? This is one of the biggest we have in the European Union and we cannot neglect it. But, Mr President, I could not fail to ask you how, in that State, so important in the struggle for social well-being, Portugal was, two days ago, pointed out as one of the two countries that least invests in support of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. How can you come here to say "we are the state of social well-being, income and family support", when it is the Socialist Party that, in Europe, invests less, that more ideological blindness has, in fact, can be shown by looking at your Spanish friends, here in the country next door? If you look at the Spanish example, which, being tragic, is still better than yours, you would realize the ridiculousness of coming to this House to say "we are the government that defends social welfare, defends social support and defends incomes". Truth is not that and truth comes to the top, with data that cannot contradict. The Socialist Government has done everything to leave behind those who promised it would never leave behind, to spend on those who should not spend.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u64	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u65	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, the socialist government has done everything to keep spending money where it should not spend. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u66	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u67	Mr President, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, your speeches now amuse me, they honor me. His political statement today was more about honoring me, because half of it was dedicated to attacking liberal ideas; more about having to caricature them in order to be able to attack them, which only proves that he has no other kind of argument. And how is that caricature? He says: "How could we have reacted to this stateless emergency? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr President, if the State does not serve to help those in need of these emergencies, what is the point? And when it helps, it helps with the money that went to get where? Isn't it the taxes that you've been charging people and businesses all these years? Oh, my God! Are you doing any favors to those who need help at this time? Oh, my God! Then he says: «Well, liberals don't want to be anywhere». We don't want to be anywhere? Oh, my God! I have just told you that the state is absolutely essential in these emergency cases. « The social state was very strong», said the honourable Member. Was it strong? Oh, my God! What would I do if I were weak? We look at education and see the schools without conditions. They still do not have the means to ensure distance learning today, if any. In health, to go to the COVID, you had to leave behind I don't know how many millions of consultations and hundreds of thousands of surgeries. And we see social security which, in order to support all these support that has been given — we know yesterday — has added 16 percentage points to public debt. The question I leave you with, Mr President, as he asks how there can be freedom without this strong state, is this: how will there be freedom if the Portuguese have to live any longer I don't know how many years within a suffocating tax burden, such as that of which the Socialist Party likes, to pay the public debt that we have just accumulated? In countries with liberal policies there were more support, more capacity to respond to the social state and less burden on public debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u68	You have the floor to answer, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions you asked me. Mrs Ofélia Ramos, I show you a chart that I believe is basically self-explanative and that shows the evolution of social security expenditure over the years. And the years in which the expenditure appears to be represented below were the years when you certainly supported a government of the PSD and the CDS, which cut the cost of social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So when we talk about measures, we can talk about support for the family, we can talk about stabilization supplements, we can talk about the increase in family allowance, we can talk about the extension of social benefits, we can talk about support for self-employed workers, support for partners-managers, low per isolation, support for the family, extraordinary support for income, up to an increase in the minimum wage. There is a certainty that none of these measures have contributed to the PSD, because they have now been against the State budgets which have approved them, or have dropped them here in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is an unforgettable fact. The fact that your party governs, as it seems to govern, from the newspapers leads to bring these numbers here, which do not have much to do with what has been said, but rather with what is the reality that happens, what the country knows and what are the measures that the Socialist Party has implemented in Portugal. [[Protests by PSD Member Ofélia Ramos.]] Mr. André Ventura, I don't think you noticed my speech. The honourable Member was nominated by a party, the PSD, at a time when they were cutting the incomes of the Portuguese, at a time when the Constitutional Court was leading—and well! — at the request of the Socialist Party, the cuts which the Government that you supported wanted to make to the Portuguese incomes, in particular of pensioners, pensioners and workers, which you have here said you are defending.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u70	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u71	In fact, I know — the memory is really short, but this memory is short of a month, Mr Deputy! — a little more than a month ago, they announced an agreement for the Azores which was based on the cut-off of social benefits and social income of inclusion! [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, what are we left with, Mr? What is Mr Ventura we have here today? Is it André or is it Ventura? He's got days! [[PS laughter.]] Therefore, "well preaches Friar Thomas," but in fact, things are what they are. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, with all his friendship and respect, « presumption and holy water, each takes whatever he wants ». In fact, I didn't talk about you in my speech. If the honourable Member felt a bit uncomfortable with the description of what the fight against the crisis would be based on the 'invisible hand', on the basis of the absence of a social state, on the basis of, for example, association contracts, which you wanted to maintain with private schools, decapitalizing education and public school, without the National Health Service, tell me how we could react to this crisis. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u72	That's just his model of society. Its model of society does not have to do with crises or not, it is a model of society in which the law of the strongest, of the market, determines who has access to resources and who does not have access to resources. We do not defend this society. We defend the community, we defend that the problems of one are the problems of all, and that is why we work to strengthen social support, to strengthen the social state and we do not want the model of society that you are defending. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u73	Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group continued to speak for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, I would also like to congratulate you on the subject which today brought the debate with your political statement. Mr President, today we have an economic and social reality which requires an urgent need to implement a set of measures, some of which are included in the State budget and others which are not included. Today we have more than 116 000 unemployed than we had one year ago. And more than 50 000 of the unemployed registered in our country are under 25 years old. This is a social reality which we cannot ignore and which requires the implementation of several measures that are in the State budget. The honourable Member spoke of a number of them, which are also the result of proposals from the CFP, in particular the one concerning the 100% layoff for workers. We also put forward proposals in the context of unemployment support, extraordinary support, and even understood that these support needed to go further in order to respond to a social reality that we expected would worsen, as is being aggravated at the moment. For this reason, a set of measures has been included in the State budget, but also in diplomas resulting from parliamentary assessments scheduled by the CFP, which is required by the Government to be effectively implemented. And it is absolutely essential that the social support that exists, and which is enshrined in the law, come to all workers who need, regardless of what kind of bond they have, who arrive at families and who arrive at micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr President, we are aware of a number of difficulties with micro and small entrepreneurs and managers in accessing the planned support. We are also aware of situations of self-employed people with many difficulties in accessing support and who are, at the moment, without any support and without income to survive, which is not, at all, acceptable. It is not understandable, nor is it entirely acceptable, at such a difficult time as the country faces, at a time when several efforts are required to hundreds of thousands of workers and families, that the Government does not implement all the social support that is included in both the Budget and other diplomas, either to save the deficit, or even to prepare itself to deliver more EUR 600 million to the New Bank. Mr President, the question I would like to leave here is very simple: what is ultimately the choice of the PS and the Government? Is it giving priority to the goals of the deficit or is it actually taking the answers that the country needs to face the problems? I wonder now whether more than a hundred million euros are allowed to be handed over to the New Bank and here we will have social support.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u75	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva, from the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u76	Mr President, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, it is very appropriate to bring us here today, especially after last week's news, where it is possible to reach the point of not promulgating the diplomas decided in this House. The PS wanted to use the so-called law-work to prevent the realization of the support to whom they need. We're talking about people who are going through difficulties and the government is talking about law and labor. We're talking about thousands of people who don't know if they have money to pay for the water, the light, the rent of the house. Is it possible that it is lit up with unconstitutionality? Oh, my God! All constitutionalists are called upon to justify not supporting the families in need. We have been talking about a state of emergency for months, and when it comes to responding to people's problems, this emergency is no longer considered. Unconstitutionality, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's starving. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, the diplomas approved here are directed at the efforts made in the State budget to respond to the problems posed by the pandemic. The Minister of Finance said yesterday that these measures cost more than EUR 40 million per month. Is that not the effort made in the State budget, Mr? Was it not in that spirit that the Budget was made viable? Does he not consider that it is possible to accommodate this expenditure in the current budget? Do you not believe that the Budget is the basis for the answers that are necessary for the Portuguese?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u77	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, the Government drew for 2021 support which it entered into the Budget, and in the debate we had in this Parliament presented this support as a flag of the most social budget of all time, such as the social cherry on top of the budget cake for 2021. It took no more than two weeks for the Government to recognize that this support, which was a new social benefit of unprecedented coverage, was not in use after all. And in mid-January, the Government announced that this support was so inadequate that it would have to withdraw the support for 2020, the continuation of which by 2021 the PS led in this Parliament. The government made a mistake when this support was resumed: it announced that it was going to give workers equal support to that which existed in 2020, only when it resumed these support made an amendment because it took as a reference, precisely, the incomes of 2020 rather than the reference of the pre-pandamia period, 2019, when people had not yet suffered the beating, the defeat of the loss of income of the pandemic itself. What the government did when it recovered this support does not make any sense; it tried to deceive people. That's why we did what competes with us. The Left Block proposed correcting this government error when it resumed last year's support, Parliament approved and the President of the Republic promulgated. That is democracy working. That's social justice. That's not leaving anyone behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u80	What is not understandable is that the PS has rejected the correction of this support, that the PS has abandoned to find a solution for the 130,000 independent workers who are in a situation of distress, with their activities closed by government decision and that in many cases they are winning or receiving support €219 per month— €219 per month! And does the government tear off the clothes and want to make a constitutional battle to prevent extraordinary support in an emergency period resulting from the pandemic? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u81	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u82	Mr. Deputies, in previous legislatures, the Left Block has resorted...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u83	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u84	Mr. President, I'm done in 30 seconds. In previous legislatures, we resort with the Socialist Party to the Constitutional Court to cancel cuts in social support, not to make cuts in social support. And it is very bad for the government to try to set up a war around this rather than have the good sense to enforce the law. It is between 1 and 12 April that these workers must make the request. They apply the law in the name of democracy and social justice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u85	To reply, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the comments you have made and the questions you have raised. I must say that the path we have made over the past few years is a path of convergence in the plural context of this House, which, depending on the numbers that exist and according to what has been the evolution of the indicators of employment, incomes, of our social security system, among other areas, has allowed, as it has allowed, that over the last five years we had built majority in this Assembly of the Republic with the PCP, with the ENP and with the Left Block, precisely looking for those advances that are recorded in the heritage of the path that we have made over the past five years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u88	in what is the fight against the social and economic crisis caused by the pandemic we all deal with new types of situations, these situations that raise new types of responses. That's not at stake. This has been the path we have made, a path of dialogue and openness, with very significant results that we cannot, in any way, ignore. When we have 2, 8 million people, 168 thousand companies and 3, 2 billion euros in paid support, including exemptions, we have a very significant number of Portuguese covered by these measures. And if, in Portugal, unemployment figures — which Mrs Diana Ferreira has referred to, and well, are not as dramatic as, unfortunately, in other countries, this stems from employment protection measures and, in particular, from the layoff which the Government has implemented over the past few months. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party — this has been the discussion of the last few days, about which I have not spoken in this speech — does not want to make any cuts. No cuts are involved in any social support. That's a fiction, I'd say it's a shortcut a little populist for what we're discussing. In fact, we are talking about support which, with the end of confinement, will even cease to have practical applicability. So it's good that the country understands what we're talking about. The country to which we speak is the country which, in the first three months of this year, and only until 23 March, received from social security EUR 847 million, an increase of monthly expenditure compared to the previous year of 40 %. So there is no possibility of saying that an increase corresponds to a reduction, because mathematics, here, does not lie. We have increased social benefits and we have more workers covered: we have workers covered by layoff to 100 %, we have independent workers, we have partners-managers, we have cultural workers. We have implemented a very significant number of measures, some of which I have been able to describe and detail here today, which correspond to a network of social and economic protection in the pandemic. And we have implemented some of these measures—and very well! — together with the support, dialogue and search for consensus from other parties in this House of the Republic, from which the right has been excluded. The Socialist Party will continue this path, a path of coherence, of sustainability, in what is the response to the crisis, without questioning the heritage that is of all, and of the coming generations, which is the public heritage of social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u89	To give the next political statement, Mr Adam Silva, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The scandal resulting from the sale of six Trás-os-Montes dams by EDP (Energy of Portugal ) to ENGIE is an open wound in our democracy. It is corrosive acid in the values of truth and transparency of the government of Portugal. The feeling of justice and the trust of the citizens is strange. from the construction of these dams on my land I heard and read dramatic stories of a pungent inhumanity. Stories of illusion and discouragement, of hope and disappointment, of promise and deceit. But the dams are there, making liquid « the geological poem», as Torga says, of the valleys of the International Douro, the flavor and the Tua. In its imponence, they are consistent in the production of much of the energy that we all use and in the creation of wealth that only some can use. The sale was made, authorized by the current socialist government, and this sale echoes all the vices and incompetences of ministers who rule as if the people did not exist. On 25 January 2020, as soon as the purpose of the sale became public through the Draft Resolution No 198 / XIV / 1. the, of which I am the first subscriber, we recommended that the government involve local authorities in the sale process. The government made mucosa ears. In February last year, when, in the State Budget Act for 2020, the Government amended the Tax Benefit Statute, without any explanation, no one mistrusted. Today, yes. Today we are suspicious that the business may have been properly articulated, from the beginning to the highest level, between the government and EDP, so that it does not pay taxes of millions, we say, of a sale worth billions, they say. We asked and the Minister of Finance gave vague and uncertain explanations. On September 2, 2020, in the office of the Minister of the Environment, the Miranda Land Cultural Movement warned Matos Fernandes that the possibility of this brutal business could happen without paying taxes. The Minister of the Environment disagreed. The Movement insisted on the complaint. The Minister of the Environment insulted and threatened. In November last year, the Assembly of the Republic approved the PSD's proposal for the establishment of a development fund for the 10 municipalities covered by the dams, to ensure counterpart and justice, compared to the two billion euros of the business. The Environment Minister sent private messages and made public proclamations to ridicule the attempt. On 28 December 2020, the Minister of the Environment went to Miranda do Douro and wanted to leave his present Christmas: there was nothing to be distributed to the transmountans because there was simply nothing to charge for the fabulous business, held 12 days earlier. The little lady of the habit. And by paraphrasing Aquilino Ribeiro, who said it better than I, the Minister, His Excellency, is not for when « the wolves howl », the Minister is for when the « lobbies howl », the lobbies of the powerful. [[PSD applause.]] As it was exciting to see and hear the Minister of the Environment defending the tax interests of EDP. So tender, so demanding! What an emotion! Since then, allegations of suspicion, lack of truth and opacity have not stopped, since then by Members and leaders of the Democratic Social Party, but also by Members and leaders of the Left Block, more recently by leaders of other parties and parliamentary groups and finally by the social communication and by a multitude of citizens, who could neither compromise nor tolerate, deal with such arbitrary government. Arbitrary that has been patented as it unfolds, at the cost, the entanglements of the business. Arbitrary that resorted to the more gross manipulation of the bodies of the State that had to decide — for example, the Tax Authority and the Portuguese Environment Agency. When the 'lobbies', the Minister of the Environment does not excel, the Minister hates them and insults the citizens honored by the Miranda Earth Cultural Movement, the Members, the political leaders, the leaders of opinion who disagree and call it right. Minister Matos Fernandes and his team are proud of the 'lobbies' of lithium, hydrogen and EDP. Same fight, same howling! An egg of the alkathea. After months in this negationist exercise of Matos Fernandes, more friend of the « lobbies» than wolves, the man changed. The man has changed! After all, EDP had to pay taxes. In a nutshell, last week, he came to proclaim — and I quote: "It is unacceptable that due taxes should not be paid in this business." Right? Oh, my God! Did Mr. Minister fall off the horse on the way to Miranda do Douro? Where does this miraculous enlightenment come from? Child Jesus from Miranda do Douro Cartolina? Are you sure you're okay with your vertebrae with such a cobbler? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: All these revolts of Matos Fernandes do not stop the scandal nor end future controversy that they have already known. But they are sad stories of sad days of a sad government under the negotiators of the powerful. Here is also the glorious sign of hope that, as long as there are committed and enlightened citizens, from the sweet lands of the Mirand plateau to any other place in this country, justice, transparency and truth will prevail. Only this « obstinate relevance» can guarantee us the future, or, still calling on Aquilino Ribeiro, « attains those who are not tired»! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u91	Five Members were registered for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mr Adam Silva? Perhaps, first, to a group of three and then to the other two. But the honourable Member knows.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u92	Mr President, I accept your proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u93	All right, Mr. Member, then we will do two groups, one of three and the other of two. Ladies and gentlemen. And, in the first group, you have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Adam Silva, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this issue to the Assembly of the Republic. Sometimes what it seems is, and what it seems is that the government has endeavoured to enable EDP to do this business without any difficulties or additional demands. We may call it a negative coalition between the PS and the EDP, which led the government to ignore warnings for tax evasion risks, not to assess the real value of these concessions, not to impose on EDP penalties for contractual conditions that were not met in the past, to attack the cultural movement that defended the interests of Miranda lands and to attack all those who denounced this negotiation. And even though the Government claims that it was not in its jurisdiction, it is clear today that no law prevents the government from doing what is right, and what is right is defending the public interest. Whether or not the government has been competent to defend the public interest, that is another conversation. The Tax Authority will do its work, but years of litigation in courts, against EDP's lawyers offices, could have been avoided by diligent and responsible action on the part of the Government, who had been informed and advised by the Miranda Lands Movement of the risk of tax evasion. On the assessment of concessions, much is still to be explained. at this moment, we only know that an internal opinion said that the business could not have gone forward without this assessment being made, that the Ministry of the Environment said that it could not do so, that the Ministry of Finance did not want to do it and that the business continued without the concessions being evaluated. On this matter, the Portuguese Environment Agency and its President were today in the Assembly of the Republic very diligently not to answer the questions that the honourable Members asked them. There are many, many answers and explanations to give about this business and there are also some certainties, which we already have. The question of seal tax will have to be resolved in the Tax Authority, but the question of IMI ( municipal property tax) actually brings some legal doubts that can be clarified. The question I ask you, Mr. Member, is whether the PSD is available to support a standard that clarifys that dams, when they are...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u95	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u96	I will finish, Mr. President. As you said, Mr President, the question I ask you is whether the PSD is available to support a standard that makes it clear that dams belonging to the private domain must pay IMI to the municipalities where they are installed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u97	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Adam Silva, the PSD today brings the issue of the sale of Douro dams by EDP to the ENGIE consortium and what is now in view of everyone is the huge scandal that would represent the advancement of this business, both from the point of view of energy policy and water resources management and also of the tax component, with EDP's intention to escape the payment of any tax in this business of more than 2200 million euros. But this problem, Mr President, did not appear now. In September 2019 the CFP submitted a question on the subject of dams; then in February 2020 — one year ago, Mr. Adam Silva — the CFP brought this subject to debate, with an initiative that sought not to allow this alienation on the part of the concession, draft resolution which was rejected, with the votes against the PS and also the PSD, the CDS-PP, the IL and the CH and the abstention from the NAP. Therefore, if the underlying reasons remain, and it is true that they remain, this alienation represents a negative step towards the segmentation of the national electro-productive system, dispersing the management of important assets by different private companies, addressing, in this case, strategic backup assets of the system. And, if these fundamental reasons remain, the fact is that this year which has only strengthened the need of the government to prevent this business, because developments in the judicial sphere have been added to these reasons—we cannot ignore that there is an ongoing investigation, precisely about the dams, which requires greater caution in this business—and also, on the other hand, at the fiscal level, with the evidence that, in the meantime, has come to the public opinion on EDP and ENGIE have set up a genuine scheme of false business restructurings to escape the seal tax in this business. Therefore, in view of these fundamental reasons and also of the issues that have been added, the CFP has again presented an initiative for the Assembly of the Republic to mark a clear position that the Government should not allow this business, which was not only discussed yesterday in the Committee on the Environment and voted today because the PS has prevented consensus on its agenda at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment. It will not be voted on today, but it will certainly be voted on next week. So the question I leave you with is this: this time, how will the PSD vote? The PSD will resume this initiative or, taking into account all the developments...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u99	Sir, I ask you to conclude. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u100	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was asking, will the PSD resume this initiative or, in view of all developments in the fiscal and judicial levels, and, above all, the fundamental reasons for this time, will it approve it, so that the government will prevent this sale, which is the only chance to solve this problem immediately? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u101	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u102	Mr President, I would like to begin by greeting the PSD and Mr Adam Silva for bringing this matter so important and so timely for discussion. Apart from the criminal issues that may eventually be involved in the sale of the dams, and on which the Greens do not intend to pronounce themselves, even in respect of the principle of separation of powers, leaving the matter to the criminal investigation authorities, it is important, however, to say that we consider it absolutely unacceptable that a business involving around EUR 2 billion is not subject to taxation. It is unacceptable that, in a democratic rule of law, a business of this size and with these values is not subject to taxes, especially when so much fiscal effort is required on the part of the common citizen, on the part of the people who work. There seems to be a tax sky for a few, while the general public continues to live in real fiscal hell. It can't be! It is the total decline in tax justice, since only by seal tax did they fly or, better, did they not fly, because the state never received them, EUR 110 million. But, Mr. Adam Silva, we must also be indignant when the government says that the law gave him no alternative but to authorize the sale of the dams. And we are outraged when we now realize that the government, together with the PSD, wants to change the law for the construction of the new airport in Lisbon, because the current law does not allow you to build it in the Montijo. And we still have to be indignant when the government says it does not want to interfere with the powers of other bodies, in particular the Tax Authority, because the same Government together with the PSD wants to withdraw competences from local authorities when they give opinions that do not please the Government. Mr Adam Silva, then in this case « the wolves howl or howl»? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u104	I have the floor to reply to this first group, Mr Adam Silva, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u105	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the honourable Members. Mr Mariana Mortágua, Mrs Duarte Alves and Mr Luís Ferreira, a cross-mountain, the questions they have asked and told them that they have already given me a lot of the answer, particularly Mrs Mariana Mortágua, because they have already added a lot in relation to what I was able to say, because time is short, and I would obviously like to have said, in fact, to say - it would - certainly - if the time he had allowed me. I fully agree with what the honourable Member has said. In fact, this is a business that overrides all the rules, it is a business that raises the greatest doubts and apprehensions and, above all, it is a business of those who should not be done in a decent country, because, in a decent country, one must seek the truth, transparency, there must be a sense that people are being ruled justly. This is not what has happened in this process, and therefore we must only say that the government has gone wrong and, apparently, it will continue to go wrong in relation to what is already perceived to be open — new dossiers that are going to emerge in this process — because the issue, obviously not here, is still going on and that continues to elucidate us about many aspects. As far as taxation is concerned, we have always said that the taxes in question were the seal tax — you said, and well, that the Tax Authority now has to clarify whether or not, and also that the Tax Authority is already on the ground, because it was supposed to be only from June 2021, but it is already on the ground — the IRC (tax on the income of the collective persons) and the IMT (municipal tax on the onerous transmission of buildings) and the respective emoluments, which we think should also be paid, and we are talking about many hundreds of millions of euros. I've seen several numbers and I've seen up to a number of a pretty responsible person, who spoke in about 450 million euros. Regarding the IMI and, in particular, the payment of the IMI to the municipalities that have dams, it is a matter to be seen. Obviously, we do not close this issue, what we want, above all, is that there is a remunerative logic, that is, there is a heritage here, there is a public good, there is here a equipment that generates a brutal wealth and, therefore, the minimum that can be demanded is that part of this wealth is also left in those municipalities that are electroproducers, if I allow the expression. With regard to what Mr Duarte Alves has said, praise too. In fact, there is a scandal here and there is no other way to say it. This is a scandalous situation, it is indeed the paradigm of the scandal of the government of Portugal, through this government and in particular this Minister of the Environment. On the concrete issue that left me, we in the PSD did not raise any problem with the sale of dams. There's no problem! The sale of dams, for us, has no problem, what is the problem is the sale of dams in this way, what is the problem, for us, is that the sale of dams is made in this logic that does not pay taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u106	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u107	What we are concerned about is that this sale of dams leaves nothing to be able to correct a centenary injustice that happens within Portugal, between the coast and the interior. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, somehow, wanted to tell you what I have already told the Communist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u108	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies. There will be an opportunity to respond later, in the second phase.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u109	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, of course, refers you to my reply to Mr. Duarte Alves. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u110	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr João Paulo Correia, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u111	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President, your speech has been very inflamed, you have made a very strong attack on the Minister of the Environment and I would like to tell you that, so far, there is no information, documentation or testimony at any hearing, which leads you to raise the suspicions you have raised and much less to make the personal attack you have made, in accordance with what you have done. We agree very much when we consider that the business between EDP and ENGIE was a complex and at least creative business model. And we also consider that it only resorts to a complex business model and, at least, creative who has a very specific objective. You will not know whether this specific objective of EDP and ENGIE wanted to meet an end to aggressive or abusive tax planning or had any other reason than that. But this is something that the Tax Authority will clarify. We also believe that the hearing of EDP's Chief Executive Officer here in Parliament did not answer the overwhelming majority of questions. Many questions remained blank, but the hearing of Mr Finance and Mr Environment, which took place about two weeks ago, from our point of view, answered questions that could be answered by the Government. We learned that Article 60. that of the Tax Benefit Statute does not apply to this business model. This hearing was clarified and this suspicion and hypothesis was removed. We also learned that the Tax Authority could only have acted sooner if the settlement note of the business seal tax that occurred in December 2020 had been submitted to the Tax Authority itself 30 days later, i.e. in January 2021, which did not happen. at another time, even earlier, one of the parties, EDP or ENGIE, could ask for prior and binding information to the Tax Authority on the business model adopted to ask whether or not they had to pay the seal tax, but both parties did not.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u112	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u113	In conclusion, the Tax Authority, according to the Minister of Finance, is in the field investigating this operation and the Socialist Party trusts the Tax Authority. The question I wanted to ask you is this: does the PSD continue to trust the Tax Authority? It is that if the PSD continues to trust the Tax Authority, then we will certainly wait for the findings of this investigation to tell us whether there has been aggressive and abusive tax planning, because if there has been, EDP has to pay what it needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u114	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by welcoming the PSD for bringing the issue of dams and EDP in this political statement. The fact that this issue has been passed on to the media agenda has led precisely, as you said recently, and well, to the fact that the Tributary Authority itself would be examining that operation. Therefore, we must wait, trusting the Tax Authority, to know if there are taxes due or due by EDP. The CDS, in this matter, does not make judgments, waits, is institutionalist, will wait for what the Tax Authority will or will not demonstrate in terms of tax payment. However, there is something that is evident throughout this process: the government has authorized and made possible this operation by requiring nothing for the land of Miranda and for those municipalities. This is factual! Therefore, it is clear that there is an outrage on the part of the local population, absolutely legitimate, in view of the counterparties that do not exist, despite having those dams there. Then, there has been discussion of internal information about water management. I would say that it is a relevant information that reveals independence, but we can't just discuss it and just sound isolated. It is important for Parliament to have all the information and all the documentation, because there may be opinions that respond to that opinion, which we do not know, at least the CDS does not have that information. Therefore, in our view, Parliament must have internal documentation, information, opinions, electronic correspondence exchanged, government information, EDP information, APA information, ENGIE information. The question I put to you, Mr President, is the following: do you understand that in any way we can only clarify this whole process if these entities provide this information to Parliament? That's the question I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u116	Mr André Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u117	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, I would like to ask you a question: if you warned me that about eight o'clock in the evening, you were going to raid your house, what would you do? I'm going to give you two options: option A — I called the police in order to avoid the assault...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u118	The PAN wasn't calling!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u119	... or took any other measure; or — option B — let the authorities take part and then participate?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u120	I called the Minister of the Environment!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u121	I assume that, like me or any Portuguese or Portuguese, I would choose the option to avoid the assault. in this case, the Government's option was to let it rob and, only after the pressure of this Parliament, call the Tax Authority. This has happened in the face of a huge negligence on the part of our government. But the problem of government authorization in this business does not run out here. We have an opinion from an APA director who says that the conditions for authorising the business were not met. The President of APA, the ineffable President of APA, very fond of the PSD, said immediately that the problems identified in the opinion were overcome. Today, at the hearing required by the NAP and the PSD to clarify the situation, we learned that the problems have not been overcome, in particular, that they remain to meet environmental, legal and contractual requirements; that an economic and financial evaluation has not been carried out to ensure that transmission was the best option to safeguard the public interest, in contrast to the option of opening concessions to competition, in order to obtain the best conditions for the State ; and that the technical and financial capacity of the purchaser was not proven. I ask you, Mr President, whether we cannot be faced with a business that has harmed the public interest for EDP and if you do not feel that the matter should be carried to the latest consequences, namely the judicial consequences, for the responsibilities of those involved and possible reversal of the business, if it is proved that the public interest has not been secured.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u122	To reply, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u123	Mr President, thanking the questions asked by my colleagues, I begin by saying that I have greatly missed Mr João Paulo Correia's intervention, because I thought he had put himself in a sort of defence exercise, to the occasion, of the Government and of the Minister for the Environment. But no, Mr. João Paulo Correia was very balanced and said that this was really a very creative business. Now, I remember that «creative» was the expression used by Mr. Prime Minister, which is an euphemism, a maximum euphemism where the Prime Minister could arrive, because what Mr. Prime Minister meant was that this is really a business of traflashes. This is a bargain! In fact, this, here, is an exercise in which no one understands anything about what is happening and, within the limits, taxes are not paid. On the question of whether we trust the Tax Authority, yes, we trust the Tax Authority, but what I tell you is that this business should have been accompanied from the outset by the Tax Authority. The Tax Authority should be in this business from the outset. He wasn't, and that's bad! With regard to Mr. João Pereira's question, the original sin in this matter is the question of counterparties. There are no counterparts here from the beginning, they are not. When the business was done and planned, what I think should have happened was to be told what was the counterpart and we are not now creating the odds of counterparties, we will be here in this exercise to see if it is paid, if it is not paid, if the Tax Authority intervenes, how it can correct the situation and then raise this whole set of suspicions in relation to APA. It can't be! It is a situation that is not well and cannot continue. Mr André Silva, your question is well asked. With the exception of that part of the assault on my house, I would like to remind you that the Movement has already resorted to the courts, national and European, and the PSD Members elected by Trás-os-Montes have already submitted an application for assessment to the Attorney-General of the Republic in this regard. We believe that the judicial bodies of this country must also come into contact with this matter, because suspicions are immense. We have the biggest doubts! Thus, we understand that, beyond the aspects of the Administration, beyond the tax aspects, beyond the aspects of governance, there is also an immediate need for the judicial bodies of this country to be able to rule on this matter. Does the Tax Authority intervene? All right, but we believe that the judicial authorities, particularly the Attorney-General of the Republic and the Public Prosecutor, should intervene to do the anatomy of this case so that there is no doubt about this business that really leaves us the greatest suspicion. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u124	For a political declaration it is now the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u125	Mr President, if I may, I will wait a bit for the change of Members in the Chamber. [[Pause.]] [[At the moment, Vice-President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u126	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still some movement, because we still have many Members. Ladies and gentlemen raised. I would like to thank you for sitting so that you can start your political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the first wave of this pandemic, Portugal suspended the present classes on 16 March and was one of the few European countries that kept teaching distance by the end of the school year, except for the preparation of examinations for older students. Almost a year later, our students were the ones who were the most timeless in attendance. If the surprise of an unexpected pandemic justifies the initial difficulties, the school communities and the country witnessed with astonishment the inaction of the Ministry of Education during the last year. After a summer in which little preparation was made for the new school year, it was the resilience of the schools that secured, as you could, the learning of the students. We are grateful for what has been done! The price to be paid for the suspension of presenceal education is very high. That is why the Left Block insisted on proposals for preparation of the school year and on the efforts needed to avoid closing schools. The government's gone. We will have time for balance sheets, but here we come, there is another urgency: the recovery program. Not all consequences will be irreversible, but nothing will be like before. That is the principle that we must leave. The diagnoses are still limited and preliminary, but the signs are frightening: worsening inequalities; loss of learning; delays in development; loss of competence; degradation of mental health. Now that the professionals of education were finally recognized as the front line of essential services and that the first diagnosis revealed that only half of the students reached the level expected in elementary knowledge, the government will carry out a new diagnosis and brought together a multidisciplinary group to make recommendations. We are here to follow these initiatives, which cannot make the table of the contributions of the parliamentary debate, which has so often been preceded by the government. Preparing for recovery is not simply planning post-pandemic education, as it seems to have been the Government's wish last summer. A policy of minimums to cope with the maximum crisis is, as we have seen, an invitation to inaction. The other vaccine that public school needs is investment. The recovery programme that the country needs must meet the challenge of the UN Secretary-General (United Nations ) and substantially increase investment in education, trust teachers and strengthen public school, have to reach learning, but also mental health and emotional, social and physical skills of children. Next summer is essential. After a winter of confinement, the last thing the children need is to spend the summer at home or in front of a screen. Once again, this is where everything is decided: social inequalities can be aggravated or contradicted by public policies. The Government should strengthen the public supply of leisure and sports activities during the holidays. Returning to accompanying collective activities is essential to mitigate the impact of confinement on mental health of the younger, but does not dispense investment in specialized technicians in inclusive education and a close link to the National Program for Mental Health, with the strengthening of health professionals in primary health care. It is necessary to begin attenuating the effect of the socio-economic crisis on students and their families with the strengthening of school social action. Finally, learning. Less matter and more resources, it seems to be the recipe with which everyone agrees. There have been many voices asking for stream rationalization and flexible evaluation, and this is also the warning of the Left Block: it is impossible for the school to do what it has to do if it is obsessed to run behind the programs. We can't have a school at various speeds. This is the right time to start a review of curricula and programs that respect the profile of students out of compulsory education and essential learning, which are never to be confused with the conservative primacy of the « essential disciplines ». Secondly, this is the time to take seriously the proposal to reduce the number of students per class and all the measures that promote the personalization of education, such as decoupling and co-adjudication. If we accept the diagnosis that the impact of the pandemic is unequal, we have an obligation to ensure that follow-up is focused on the individual needs of each student and each student. Third, we need teachers. The promises of rejuvenation and renewal of the teaching body made by the government are not a mirage. For the Socialist Party it seems that it is never time to face the structural lack of teachers in public school. That seems to be the music of Deolinda: "Not now, that there is a print missing/ Not now, that my father does not want/ Not now, that there are bottlenecks/Go without me, that I will have there! Do not keep on seeking. ” There are over 30,000 precarious teachers in the system, some teachers have left the system. If we want a robust recovery program, we all need it. An extraordinary linkage of teachers is needed and a scheme of incentives for displaced teachers needs to be approved. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is asked of the government is humility and courage. Humility, because it is time to learn from the mistakes of last summer; courage, because you cannot postpone the investment that the public school needs. Schools need autonomy to identify the needs and receive the resources they identify as necessary without having to regulate coughs with the Ministry of Education. The Prime Minister promised that all students, all schools, would have a computer. The government has promised a social rate of the Internet. Where are those promises? The challenge is to fulfill the appeal of Antonio Guterres : invest in public school and leave no one behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u128	To request clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Ana Paula Bessa from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u129	Mr. President, you have confused me for a few moments. My name is Ana Rita Bessa, but I suppose it meant me. I wanted to start by saying hello to the Block on the Left for bringing this issue to debate, although always in its own approach, demanding,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u130	Like it's bad! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u131	... expressing some concerns and presenting solutions with which, in general, we do not agree. In fact, a study conducted by the Ministry of Education came to the public—it is paradoxical that it is an online study to verify the difficulties of online education, precisely, but, in any way, it is an important point of discussion—that resulted from a number of worrying indicators on student learning during the seven months in which, in fact, they were already at home, in distance teaching: bad results from the point of view of literacy and from the reading of information by students of the 6th. the year, worrying results of mathematics no. 9. the year, worrying results in scientific literature either in 6. or the 9th. year. In view of these results, what has the government decided? I could have decided, as in other countries, a set of extraordinary learning recovery measures, could have tightened the tutorials, altered or shortened the holiday time, increased the school hours for next year. But no, the government decided to do a working group to think and meditate on these results and, the next year, over two years of learning difficulties, then decide what can be done to recover the learning of these students. I always like that there is time and calm in decisions, but I sincerely believe that what these children need is solutions — not claims, not concerns, not working groups, but concrete actions. So, in addition to reducing the number of students by class, the removal of exams, the concern about mental health issues, Mrs. Deputy and the Left Block accompany the need to strengthen what the school should and can do, which is to teach content like Portuguese, Mathematics, History and others, or understand that what we have to do with the students is distract them and compensate them emotionally and leave them all the more to another time, other times, who knows, after several working groups?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u132	Thank you very much, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, and not Ana Paula Bessa, as I said recently. Mrs Cláudia André of the PSD now has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the Block on the Left for bringing education to this debate. The future and economic success of a country depend on the quality of education it offers its students. The Portuguese students will be the men and women of tomorrow and therefore deserve much more than what they have received from the Ministry of Education and the Minister of Education. This minister runs behind the damage, this minister fails in the answers to the confinements—we are still waiting for the 335 000 computers promised in January and which would arrive until the end of March, and today it ends March and the schools do not yet have them — and then it also fails in the planning of the learnings, when they return to school. We already know the recovery programmes of many countries, such as France, England, Spain, Ireland and many others. What about us? What about Portugal? We don't know! We only know that a working group will be set up. Well, it's better late than ever, but there are also opportunities that are won and that can never be recovered again. Portuguese students deserve a minister capable of anticipating, able to plan strategically substantive measures and able to respond to their needs. So far, we know promises, we know announcements and we know many stories of accounting, which are sold whenever a school year or a period of education starts. The fact, we all know, is that, in the field, this fails, despite the parents, the teachers in charge of education, to work hard so that this does not happen. The Ministry of Education has failed in structural and capable responses. We therefore ask the Left Block to join this PSD opinion. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u134	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u135	Mr President, I would also like to congratulate Mrs Joana Mortágua on the subject that brought the debate to the Assembly of the Republic. The issues of education are, in fact, of enormous importance and relevance, even more so at the moment we live, because what the report of the IAVE (Instituto de Evaluación Educação Educação ) told us was what the educational community had already identified in schools, with students, and the PCP has also expressed concerns about the need for learning recovery. But more than that, the report shows that distance learning is in fact no solution and that measures should have been prepared and adopted that would allow schools to function, because we all know that the appropriate space for learning and monitoring students is in the classroom, in the interaction between teachers and students. In fact, what we have identified and that this report confirms is precisely this: the degradation of the quality of learning and the introduction of more inequalities. We therefore believe that it is essential to adopt a set of measures from now on — indeed, it is not 'now', that they should have been adopted, but we are still going to do so — in order to strengthen the number of teachers in schools to accompany students, to strengthen the number of workers and specialized technicians, in fact, to create the conditions for minimizing the damage caused by this epidemic in these two school years and to continue the school course successfully. It was precisely in this sense that I wanted to leave our question to the honourable Member. Today we will discuss a set of CFP proposals to strengthen school social action, taking into account the loss of income, and to ensure the equality of students, concrete measures not to penalize students, particularly with regard to examinations and the need to move forward towards their elimination and appreciation of continuous evaluation, but also to reduce the number of students per class.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u136	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u137	I will finish, Mr. President. We believe it is essential to discuss, too, and we will have the opportunity to do more ahead in April a set of concrete proposals to link teachers, to combat precariousness and to provide the public school with what is necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u138	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u139	The question is exactly this about investment. I would like to know whether to follow these proposals from the CFP and whether the need to invest in public school should be a priority. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u140	Mrs. Joana Mortágua, you have the floor to answer this set of requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u141	Mr President, I would like to begin by answering Mrs Paula Santos exactly to say that we have had a great convergence on the investments that the public school needs to deal with this pandemic. These investments were necessary, first and foremost, to try to prevent or delay the suspension of the present classes, because we know that there is a point from which the deepening of inequalities is inevitable and we only try to control how much they worsen, which is the point where children go home and the school ceases to function as equalizer of these inequalities. That is why, in summer, we insist, for example, on the need to reduce the number of students per class. A Left Block project on this topic will be discussed today, together with projects from other parties, including PCP also, being essential to ensure physical distancement, but also to ensure or at least try to maximize the personalized monitoring of students. That is why we insisted so much on hiring employees to schools, because we saw how last year the pandemic arrived and, in June, there was no increase in the number of employees in schools. It was only after the end of the academic year that the government hired the first 500 ; then it had to come to September to strengthen with more 1500 ; and then we had to arrive in January to authorize the hiring of more 3000. And so the government went after the damage, in fact, as happened in the test, in matters that were predictable, that were preventable and that needed basic investment, minimum investment, in public school. Now, we need much more than a minimum investment, we need maximum investment to deal with all the consequences of this pandemic in the education of young people. Now, this also means collective trauma. I do not know what Mrs Ana Rita Bessa means by 'focusing students on essential disciplines instead of distracting them and making emotional compensation'.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u142	That's not what I said! You didn't get it right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u143	We are experiencing the greatest collective trauma of our lives, with profound consequences on the mental health of children. We cannot be looking only at Portuguese and Mathematics, which will certainly have to be compensated, like other disciplines. But the honourable Member has come to understand that students have to be able to count again and to know how to read again and that nothing else matters, as if we did not have levels of degradation of mental health that are incomparable, from the point of view of our memory, of our time of life. The honourable Member pointed out as a defect what I consider to be a compliment, when she said that the Left Block is very demanding. Surely we are, we have many proposals, we have solutions for public school, most of which have been blocked here by the CDS. I end with the same evaluation and the same comment regarding PSD and MP Cláudia André. We shared the identification of the failures of this government in relation to what could have been done more and not done. But the truth is, whenever the Left Block brought proposals to strengthen the public school in times of pandemic, at the beginning of the school year or throughout this year, they were blocked in Parliament by the PSD vote on the working conditions of the teachers, were on the reduction of the number of students per class, were on the support of teachers displaced.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u144	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u145	I conclude, Mr President, by adding that this blockade, by the way, was against Rui Rio's own words, which said that the teaching career is absolutely strategic for the country and that any day teachers are paying for work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u146	I now give the floor to Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u147	Mr President, I begin by congratulating Mrs Joana Mortagua. Education is a theme that will gain more centrality in the coming months and therefore makes it all the more sense to be discussing it, and, moreover, it will continue to be discussed on today's agenda, also with Green proposals. Two school years affected by the pandemic have added difficulties where there were already many. In addition to what has already been said today, we would also like to draw attention to the problem of precarious work, which massacres thousands of teachers and cannot be forgotten. Together with the populations and before society in general, it is fair and necessary to denounce what happens with the teaching profession, which presents high levels of precariousness, in many cases extending for years to the end and even decades. It is necessary to broaden awareness about what happens to thousands of teachers and their families and to contradict the idea that instability is a condition of the profession and not the result of political options that needs to be corrected. Teachers, through their unions, have long claimed the binding of hired teachers. The question, Mrs Deputies, is whether there is a future for a profession that is not attractive. We have already had several group announcements where teachers begin to scarce on the contest. When we need more teachers, especially to reduce the number of students per class, is it acceptable to ask a professional who is 5, 10 or 15 years without an effective bond? Is it acceptable for teachers to have to pay rooms or make daily trips hundreds of miles, sometimes for reduced hours, only to earn time, almost paying for work? Will the working conditions and the instability of teachers, as well as the costs that they will be displaced, not be a barrier to attracting more teachers to the profession? And will that not have consequences for the quality of learning? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u148	Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Joana Mortágua, we welcome the Left Block for bringing educational policies into this debate and we would like to take this opportunity to make a request for clarification and clarification. It is clear that the crisis we are experiencing has had consequences on the learnings of our children and our young people and that the Ministry of Education has a unique opportunity here not to use quick thinking and to give structural responses, which have long been needed in educational policies in our country. Therefore, we would like to ask you, from now on, whether, when you talk in compensation for the learnings of our children and our young people, of our students, you refer to more classes, more content, more homework, more bureaucratic processes for teachers, or basically you refer to a structural need to review the educational policies in which it is including the review of the programmatic contents to essential learnings and which has long been necessary in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u150	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Joana Mortágua, last week was marked by three important moments for educational communities. First, we started, this weekend, the vaccination of teaching and non-teaching staff, a process that has been able to run and that responds to the desires of the school community. Basically, this is a matter of understanding and concern that we have had to ensure that schools do not close again. This is because it has always been, and it will be, our understanding that nothing replaces the teacher, nor the classrooms, as indeed has been well said. The study, presented yesterday, clearly shows that the government has always understood it. From early on she sought to ascertain the impact of confinement on students and did not « bury her head in the sand », as the honourable Member did here seem to believe. The results, I know - are hard, but that is the responsibility we all have: to face reality. We assume as a whole that this is an unfinished fight and that we will always honor. But, Madam Member, I must also say that there is a third moment that marks this week and that concerns yesterday's announcement of hiring more than 2000 operational assistants to our schools, in compliance, in fact, with the State budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u152	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u153	...that, as you know, the Left Block did not follow. Mrs Depute, these are three crucial moments this week: vaccination of school communities, presentation of the study on the impacts of the pandemic that will mark measures to be taken, opening the competition for more than 2000 operational assistants and technicians and, however, Mrs Depute came to do an exercise as if we were starting from scratch. Therefore, the question I would like to ask you, since you have decided, in your intervention, to terraplan these three moments, is in the sense of trying, fundamentally, to perceive something that does not totally right in your speech. There is certainly a lot to do, but whenever I hear it, I hear that public school is extraordinary, but that everything is always wrong. Thus, to understand the points of convergence, I would like to ask you what the success factors of the public school are. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u154	To answer, you have the floor again, Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u155	Mr President, Mr Tiago Estévão Martins, the public school has a tremendous resilience capacity and the Left Block always brought here what it thought were the fundamental measures to support this resilience capacity at a time like this. We have often been, not just the Left Block, and it has already been said here in this parliamentary debate, before the government in identifying the problems. When the Left Block, at the end of last school year, said « attention is going to be needed to strengthen employees », the government did not want to hear and was hiring the cheeks gradually as the schools were saying « no longer hold up ». When the Left Block came to say « attention, it is necessary to strengthen public health teams, because schools do not have public health specialists to make contingency plans», that was not heard. And the truth is, there were many problems identified by schools that felt, in some way, abandoned because they had no technical skills to make plans for public health contingency. When we come to alert saying « attention is needed to reduce the number of students per class so that there is safety, to increase physical distance; attention is now time to start a mass test at school too and to increase transparency about these results», in all these matters, the government — it is true! — he was running after injury. It should be noted that up to the recruitment of employees, resulting from the review of a portfolio of ratios, agreed with the 2020 Left Budget Block, it was necessary to wait seven months, already in pandemic, for the door to be seen, especially for its authorisation. Many of them are not yet in schools and we are talking about the State Budget by 2020! Therefore, in many respects, the government has tested the resilience of schools to cope with this pandemic time. And I'm not going to talk about computers for which no one forced Mr. Prime Minister to promise that they would be handed over to all the students at the beginning of the school year. No one forced him to make that promise, but Mr. Prime Minister did it and he didn't. I would also like to refer to the questions put by Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP and Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP. Quickly, on precariousness, firstly, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, the Left Block, and, moreover, the diagnosis data confirm - the answer is clear: the pandemic has revealed deep and structural problems of the public school. This is the time to review some matters on which we should have considered, but which, for many reasons on which we are not worth discussing now, we have not done so. I would like to highlight two of them that have been put here: one is the review of programmes and curricula — and Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins, I will give two good examples of what has been done in relation to public school — to follow the profile of students out of compulsory education and essential learning. There were two good initiatives. What do you need to do? Adapting curricula, adapting programs, adapting evaluation and doing so now, because education, in times of pandemic, will also mean the future of education. On teacher precariousness, and to finish, because it is a very important issue, this year will be linked, by changes made to the brake standard, in negotiation with the Left Block, 2424 teachers. Is that an improvement? It is!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u156	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u157	I will finish, Mr. President. It is an improvement, but more than 11,700 teachers with more than 10 years of service are left out. Can we, at this time, dispense with these teachers, exempt them from giving them a link and from clinging to the system?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u158	Mrs. Deputy, I'd appreciate it if you'd finished.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u159	I will finish, Mr. President. Can we at one time dispense with teachers who have left the system or must we bring and face, once and for all, the problems of the structural lack of teachers in public school? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u160	Returning to political statements, it is the turn of the CFP Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The impact of the epidemic has been accentuated by the serious structural problems of the country that are exacerbated from day to day, the difficulties of workers and people, micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, students, culture, restoration, hotel and all other sectors and social layers. The seriousness of the situation we are living in makes it clear the need for other types of economic and social responses, other types of political options. It is clear that the Government lacks will and courage to make the necessary choices, to respond to the deterioration of the economic and social situation, to curb abuses against workers and to put an end to the privileges of the large economic groups. The lack of action to curb the constant abuses and injustices that are being committed against workers, the collection of social support, the convivence and complicity with the ruinous business and the tax scandal of the sale of EDP dams or the lack of response to the lack of vaccines, apparently broken examples, have as a common element the lack of political will and the error in the political options of the Government. Let us start with abuses against workers and their rights. The workers' rights and the use of the epidemic to aggravate exploitation are consecutive. Only in collective layoffs will we go to about 9000 workers in one year, to which all other abusive layoffs are added. The exploitation of those who do not have a contract or a link, of those who are subject to exploitation by application or algorithm is intensified. It is the injustice and disrespect of the workers of Galp, SPdH / Groundforce ( Portuguese Handling Services ), Bingo do Belenenses, JJW Group, Eurest, Spitfire, Iberol, New Bank, or EDP contact centers. The solutions to these problems are clear: to ensure respect for workers' rights, to adopt labour laws with this aim, and to do them, to combat precariousness, to fight for the maintenance of jobs in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u163	The solution is to move forward measures such as those which the PCP brought here last week to stop redundancies and restore compensation values, measures these plummeted by PS, PSD, CDS, Liberal and Arrival Initiative. There are solutions to defend the rights of those who work, but there is lack of will and courage for the government to move them forward. The same applies to social and economic support. Today there are thousands of unemployed, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that are without activity and at risk of bankruptcy, without entitlement to anything, as they see increasing the privileges and benefits of economic groups, with their untouchable profits. The EDP, the Galp, the bank and the insurers, the large distribution, SONAE or Jerome Martins, the telecommunications groups, all these are examples of how much there are for half a dozen of the very large and very little that remains for the vast majority of the smaller ones. As long as some go well, others go well.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u164	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u165	Let the cultural workers say that these days they saw the announced support turn into denials and indifferences, with unjustified arguments that could be overcome, if the PCP proposals discussed here in February had not been rejected by PS, PSD, CDS and Liberal Initiative. Support measures are not reaching the people they urgently need, because the government is changing, more concerned about the deficit than with families and with micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that do not have incomes. The choice that needs to be made, and what is required, is that the Government uses all the means available to support economic activity and employment. This is the time to implement measures, it is not time to delay and drag the necessary measures, try to reduce their scope, limit the whole of the beneficiaries, introduce requirements and obstacles to their effectiveness. This lack of government will, when it comes to responding to the needs of the Portuguese people, contrasts well with the kindness towards great interests, a too obvious option in the scandal of selling dams by EDP. Responsibilities need to be established for the fiscal scandal and EDP tricks, without ever losing sight of the national strategic interest. The sale of dams is, in itself, a ruinous business for the country and the government has the obligation and means to prevent it. What is needed, then, is that this Assembly of the Republic today makes the right choice and approves the project that the CFP brings to the vote to stop this business done against the interests of the country. Then we will also see how each one is positioned at the time of truth. In addition to the serious economic and social problems affecting the country, we are still facing a serious health problem for which vaccination is the most solid solution in the future. But also in this plan, the wrong government options can cost the country dearly. Vaccines are the most powerful weapon that we have in order to respond to the pandemic and, due to its importance for all mankind, are undoubtedly considered a common good. Despite this, the situation in Portugal is worrying. We have the country bound by the EU agreements, bound by the inability of pharmacists to comply with contracts and by refusing to suspend patents. Vaccines are missing and, in the face of the delay in vaccination, which questions the health and life of Portuguese, the necessary solution and the position required is more than evident. Progress should be made in the diversification of the purchase of vaccines, in the creation of national production capacity, in the intervention for suspension or cancellation of patents. The government is once again wrong by refusing these solutions, but on 8 April, the CFP will bring this discussion here so that the options that defend health and the national future are realized. Each will then have to take on what is most important if the health and life of the Portuguese and national development or profit and interests of fidelity to the European Union. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As complex as the difficulties we face may seem, there are solutions to national problems. These alternative solutions require an option to defend workers, the people and the country and to respond to the problems and urgent needs of the various sectors of society. What the situation requires is failure with the options of right-wing policy. What the country needs is an alternative policy to respond to the epidemic and structural problems, which have worsened, is a policy to defend workers' rights, their wages and employment, which strengthens and strengthens the response of public services, recovers the public control of the strategic sectors and defends national sovereignty. These are options that have to be taken now. The Government shall refuse, drag and delay the necessary options and urgent and essential measures. The CFP does not cease to fight for them and to continue the struggle to achieve them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u166	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record three entries of Members for requests for clarification. To that end, I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Alma Rivera, in her speech, made clear the support the Government has to give to small and medium-sized enterprises and the efforts it has to make in terms of the maintenance of workers. What we would like to ask you concerns a proposal from the NAP which has already entered a month ago and which aimed to solve a problem in the regulation of the APOIAR + SIMPLES and APOIAR RENDAS programmes. in these programmes, the government has left out the individual entrepreneurs who had no employees. This, of course, represents a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. Very recently, the government has finally solved this problem. in this sense, the NAP repeats its proposal. It was understood that the government did well to resolve this problem, although late, because it left these people excluded from this support for more than a month. But the government continues to leave out of support the individual entrepreneurs who created companies in 2020. Obviously, people made investments, planned and invested in the economy. So today we are bringing this recommendation, so that the Government can find a solution to also support individual entrepreneurs whose companies were set up in 2020 and, at the same time, that the government create a simulator, in view of the confusion installed for all support, so that people can simulate the support that best suits their needs. We would like to know whether the CFP will follow these NAP recommendations.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u168	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Alma Rivera, I begin by agreeing with you and by welcoming the relevance of the issue and the question. Indeed, there is a starting point with which we all agree: the pandemic has exacerbated and made very evident the structural problems we have faced over several decades. In fact, Portugal feels in a particular way the impacts of the pandemic, as well as other States that have other weaknesses feel these same impacts, in areas that were already critical. The honourable Member has noted that some of the issues that have been associated seemed to be'strike'. The word is yours, therefore, but, indeed, in the approach to the subject, let us not confuse and mix matters in which we should be particularly clear. The honourable Member was talking about workers' rights, and it is true that it was indispensable, and it is still necessary, to keep an active surveillance on the non-compliance with both the labour legislation we already had, and the labour legislation that was specifically implemented to manage this period. Therefore, the monitoring capacity has been strengthened. It has also been noted to the Act (Working Conditions Authority) that it must initiate and develop the means to protect workers' rights. This mission has been assumed, in fact, with the conditions that we know are in force at the moment, but it has been assumed by the public authorities. This is an aspect of which there is an agreement. There is a general consensus in the House and there is a general consensus in the country that this is a matter of priority. So let us not confuse, for example, one aspect in which we should emphasize the device that can be done to deduce a difficulty with other aspects in which we can effectively disagree. And we may have a disagreement about the moment, the opportunity, the quantity and speed of some of the subjects we are dealing with. You are right to the honourable Member in culture, where we may find one of the most difficult situations that Portuguese workers face, precisely because the stoppage is of such intensity that many workers in the area of culture throughout the country are deprived of income. We know that the speed of the social responses that are placed on the table, next to the ministry—which, too, he himself, does not have this aspect and has never, in his history, had this dimension of providing social support—is difficult to implement and we are committed to improving it. But to recognize that work is done and that it is difficult, at this stage, it should lead us, yes, to try to emphasize the aspects in which we agree and that it is essential to keep pace, maintain the dimension of this scale of intervention, and the question I leave is precisely about that. The honourable Member speaks of a lack of will. I don't think anyone wants to be in this House. We may have different views on how to implement it, but surely we can find a common denominator.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u170	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u171	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, surely it is possible to find a common denominator, as over four years it was possible to find common denominators to return incomes, strengthen social protection and continue to defend public services. That is what the Socialist Party is committed to and will continue to do. We hope that the other parties, with this scope and views of proximity, can also do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u172	Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to that time of year when the CFP enters its usual frenzy. It is posters on the streets, it is debates and proposals in Parliament, it is the reversal of labour law, it is the requirement for more social support, more subsidies and more rights to workers. Then come the celebrations of 25 April and the Day of Workers, which are usually the culmination of these demands. Then they go on vacation. In September, they held their festival, the country's only offshore festival, and returned in October full of ideas. And in November, what are you guys doing? Using an expression from Mrs Deputy, how does the CFP « stand at the time of truth »? In November, you can and will validate the budgets of the Government and the Socialist Party, as has happened in recent years. This is it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the annual PCP script is thus scrupulously carried out every year until the pandemic year. When all Portuguese were confined, there was no shame in celebrating and celebrating, and they had already spoken about limiting trade union activity and the rights to make politics to prepare the ground for what is coming. But what's done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is only in the last six years that the CFP has made the budgets which have precisely prevented the implementation of the policies which have been reaffirmed. It has been budgets of captivating, under-financing of the public sectors and of covert austerity. I remember that 2020, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was the year of the largest tax burden applied to the Portuguese portfolio and to the treasury of companies. My questions are simple. Madam Member, does it not seem to you that these matters that have brought us, and well, are of extreme importance? Are social policy, workers' rights and labour rights not of such importance that they deserve to be discussed in the context of social dialogue? Does it not seem to you that these policies should therefore result in an extended commitment in society, between the social partners, workers and the government?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u174	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u175	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs Deputy, for that matter, the CGTP ( General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ), which is normally the same as the CFP, never in the history of Portugal signed a single social agreement. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u176	There are no further entries for requests for clarification, to answer, you have the floor to Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u177	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Bebiana Cunha, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves and Mrs Sandra Pereira, for giving us the opportunity to talk about a subject that has been very expensive to us and has been very concerned about, which is exactly the situation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Moreover, from the very first moment, the CFP has sought to extend these support, making them not to those who have the most or are absorbed, mostly as they were, by large companies that do not need as needed the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which, at one time or another, have simply seen their income disappear. For this reason, I am going to beat us to end discrimination in support of these companies, which were made, for example, to companies that did not have organised accounting, because the law allows it, of course, to be automatically excluded. The CFP has intervened to correct this situation and I therefore beat us for extending these support.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u179	With regard to what has been said, the CFP is proud to have allowed 280 000 workers to now receive 100 % of those who have seen their income dramatically cut, and to have contributed decisively to create new extraordinary support for the hiring of workers for the National Health Service. They say there's a problem. This problem is the lack of scope and application of these measures. The problem is that the Socialist Party, in the speech, has the correct tones, but then, in practice, much remains to be done. It is this problem of scope and implementation that we do not understand. They are options, yes, sir, as are options when, 'at the time of truth' — as Mrs Sandra Pereira said, which is very critical of the government, and well, in this matter, last February, when the question of dams was being discussed and the CFP presented a proposal, it was only unfeasible because the PSD did not put itself on the side of the impediment of this business. It is mathematically impossible at the moment to approve proposals that contradict wrong government options without the contribution of the PSD and either abstain or vote against! Therefore, they are responsible for these wrong options that we have pointed out.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u180	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u181	They are responsible for abuses and for the lack of compliance with labour law with workers. They are responsible for the dismissal of the workers of Eurest. [[No, no! It has nothing to do with it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u182	They are responsible for the dismissal of the workers of the ISS Facility Services, who, when they have finished the 60 days that filled the layoff criteria, were able to fire and are having no consequences because of it. They are also responsible for limiting social support, yes, sir, because they do not make it possible for the implementation of the CFP's proposals and do not make it possible for them to reach people's practice and lives. They are responsible, yes sir, for the ruinous business of EDP and for this tax mosmbbia that is mounted. They are responsible for not taking steps to vaccinate Portuguese. They're responsible for always opting for the class of those who have the most. They always opt for profit and always leave behind who has less, who lives from their work and who cannot live without the support we propose. [[PCP applause.]] [[It's a tape!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u183	We have returned to the political statements and to this end I have the floor of Mr João Gonçalves Pereira of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It does not fail to cause a bitter obstacle to know that it is the last time I pronounce this greeting in this same House. It is my last speech in this House, as a Member of the Assembly of the Republic. I would like to recall, before congratulating anyone in law, an Irish poet. He wrote that «a man is original when he affirms the truth that has always been known by all good men. Do not keep on seeking. ” The truth is that a parliamentary resignation has very little original. We've seen several, coming from several benches. In politics, particularly in democracy, there is nothing exceptional in a farewell. Cycles pass, faces change and ideas change. That's the way it should be. I therefore do not come to make a speech summarizing a « goodbye», until I intend not to abandon the party militancy nor so little the civic intervention. In the coming months, I will dedicate myself, if my party will allow me, to the local combat, because it is in the autarchics that the strength of a party comes to an end and also because I believe that the CDS needs, more than ever, to give proof of life. But, in order not to waste the poet's evocation, let me recover some originality. I was a Member of three different legislatures in three equally different situations: in support of a government facing a financial crisis; in opposition to a government enjoying enormous popularity; and, finally, now in opposition to a government facing a pandemic. All the legislatures were a different requirement between themselves and I believe that this is also a feeling that all banks will recognize as family members. The latter, in its exceptionality and uncertainty, in its gigantic impact and unpredictability, is probably the greatest challenge this House has faced since the consolidation of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make this very clear: in what is possible to me, tell me to face it. They count on me, as a citizen and autarch, to be at your disposal on this mission, which I know is difficult and which I have already shared with you. They count on me, as a citizen and autarch, knowing and recognizing the importance of this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the weeks when I will be thinking about my departure, I have thought a lot about our role and the role of this House in our democracy. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I come out with a calm conscience. I speak quietly because the country can count, from the left to the right, with a good parliamentary representation, by Mrs Isabel Pires, of the Left Block ; by Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP ; by Mr André Silva, of the PAN ; by Mrs Mariana Silva, of the Greens; by Mr Hugo Costa, Mr Filipe Pacheco and Pedro Coimbra, of the Socialist Party; by Mr Hugo Carvalho, Mr Cristovão Norte and Mr Bruno Coimbra, of the PSD ; by Mr João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the IL ; by Mr André Ventura, of the Chega ; by the independent Members Joacine Katar Moreira and Cristina Rodrigues, among many others. In addition to the certainty that here, unlike in so many other places, we are better accompanied than alone, I thought about what we do every day, what purpose we have, what commitment we honour and what ambitions we must respond to. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe I have reached the possibility of an answer. in this century, which will have everything to be turbulent, the greater function of the Assembly will be to reconcile the possibilities of the future with the urgency of the present; it will be to ensure that innovation and technology will be at the service of the well-being of the Portuguese; it will be to protect the democratic institutions of instability that all changes will bring us; it will be to prepare in due course a legal framework that preserves the role of the State in protecting the interest of the Portuguese vis-à-vis them. That, in my view, is the greatest challenge: serving as a bridge between what we are and what we want to be, without leaving anyone behind. Do not sit waiting for change, nor unbridled competition against it is a common goal in which each of us prefers alternative but not less common paths for it. This is how in 5G, in its 1001 possibilities and in its many other risks, it is in the emergence of blockchain, which will revolutionize the privacy and data technology on the planet, and this is mainly in the decarbonization of the planet and in the fight against climate change. It is not necessary to be left or right to see that the sustainability of our habitat, its link with public policies and its economic potential must be considered together. within 10 years, I am convinced that carbon neutral companies and industries will be leaders of the global economy and this Parliament must do everything to ensure that our business and industrial fabric can integrate these successes. This Parliament must do everything possible to raise awareness of the different generations for the emergence of carbon emissions and keep the average temperature of the planet at non-destructive levels so that there are no more disasters. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the middle of the pandemic, with aeroplanes on the ground and cars stopped, the emissions had a reduction that did not reach 5%. There's a lot to do. We can't postpone the problem. There's no plan B! That's the call I'm giving you. This is the message I bring you. I end with a note of thanks to Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues, Telmo Correia and Cecilia Meireles, my parliamentary leaders, the CDS Members and officials and all those who, in any way or otherwise, help us accomplish our daily work here in Parliament. I would also like to thank the social media. I was born in democracy and grew up in freedom thanks to it. That's why I'm leaving this House today. Returning to the Irish poet, «a man is original when he affirms the truth that has always been known by all good men». That's what I tried here to do. Thank you very much and congratulations to all. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, PSD, IL and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u185	Mr Cristovão Norte, from the PSD, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, it is a privilege for me to convey to you, on behalf of the Democratic Social Party, these words of recognition for your efforts, for your sense of public service, for your persistence and, above all, for the loyal way in which you have conducted yourself during the time that you and I have lost in the Assembly of the Republic. I believe that the honourable Member has always been, from this point of view, an example of loyalty, flexibility in the deal, solidity in friendships, and the epitome of an exemplary Parliamentary. Therefore, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Democratic Social Party, I would like to direct to you the wish of the greatest happiness, launching the challenge for you to persist in public life in this sense of service, in such important cases as those you have committed to, whether 5G or climate change, renewable energies, among others, which are essential for the future of the country and also humanity. I hope that this path will always succeed and that in the autarchic disputes or legislative disputes we will always have a faithful competitor, a man of great loyalty, always competent and at the service of the country's interests. I therefore receive all my friendship, our recognition and a great, great embrace. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u187	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira begged me to leave because I saw the theme of his political statement 'climate transition, energy transition' and came here to surprise me with another transition, especially because it prevents me from saying what I am going to say in the context of not saying goodbye, which is when people more easily get out of their compliments and easy words. I would therefore like to have done so in another context, but the departure which you have preached to me compels me to do so now. I do not have much time for Parliament and this little time has not even been all spent in your company, but I used to see, within the many differences that we have been seeing in our opinions, a man of courage, a man of great frontality, a man always able to cooperate in what we understood and, obviously, with a personal treatment of the best I have found. So I don't know where the curves of life will take us and if they cross again. I hope that it will be in public life, political life or other even more important things. Therefore, like Mr Cristovão Norte, I will not forgive you for the departure you have made, but I will leave you a huge and strong embrace, wishing all the happiness in your career. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u189	Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u190	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, I would like to wish you every success in your professional and personal life, because I think you will continue a long journey from here forward. Turning to the issue that the CDS here brings us, this is a relevant issue to which the ENP has been linked for many years and, in what we can see, there is no plan or programme that does not address the energy transition and the digital transition. The pandemic served as a pretext for accelerating the digitalization process, exceeding poorly consolidated and geographically asymmetric stages, excluding numerous citizens, especially older people, and denying access to others, due to the lack of economic resources and equipment, as was evident with distance education, further harming students living in low density areas within the country, where there was little public investment. Even the elderly may be affected in this vaccination plan because they live in places where digital transition has not yet arrived. As important as equipment, the core of digital transition passes through universal access to the Internet. However, without a strategic public enterprise such as PT, it is a way for digitisation to harm more citizens and many small companies that already feel the costs of interiority. We are all reminded of the mess that was migration to TDT ( terrestrial digital television), in which public interest and populations were superimposed by the interests of operators. The proposed digital transition is intrinsically linked and depends on the electrification of society. Energy transition can be an important contribution to the environment, decarbonisation and combating climate change. However, this path cannot be followed in a random way without planning and ignoring another important factor, which goes by squambling that the digitization of the economy itself requires much greater energy consumption and production and storage solutions that will lead to pressure on mineral resources, as is the case with lithium. In the energy transition, as important as reducing fossil fuel consumption, it is essential to lead measures and policies to energy efficiency and to reduce energy consumption itself. And it is on these issues that I would still like to hear from the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u191	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, of course, that, apart from the issue that brings us, I cannot fail to express to you the best wishes of personal and professional success. As you all know, there is an ideological gap between us—there are many fractured causes—but the honourable Member always had the honesty to debate ideas and not people. I therefore hope that it will lead from this debate that we have had the opportunity to make over time and in the municipal assembly a greater sensitivity to our concerns, particularly for the animal cause, and that it will join not only the energy transition but also the environmental transition, a transition to a new paradigm of respect for the other beings. With regard to the issue that has brought us today, a very expensive issue for the NAP, I cannot fail to take advantage of it when it comes to the need for more information to be shared, particularly within the framework of 5G, which is a very expensive issue and in which the studies (we have come to this conclusion at the various meetings we had in the Committee on Economic Affairs) are not shared with the other political forces. I imagine it is a sensitivity that it has, that somehow reinforces this importance of digital transition, which must be an ally of combating climate change and environmental protection. The Government has been slow to implement the necessary digital transition, so we would like to see, from its perspective and on the theme it has brought today representing the CDS, even though Mr. Deputies is moving towards another challenge in his life, if the CDS is willing to follow the vision of the NAP on the need to accelerate the environmental transition, because it has to be one of the axes of action of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which has been so spoken of, and cannot be just an appendix of the socio-economic concerns because it is undoubtedly the challenge of our lives. I conclude, Mr President, by wishing you once again the best luck and the best success for your personal and professional life. [[Mr Cristovão Norte, the PSD, and Telmo Correia, the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u193	Mr. Carlos Pereira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u194	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, I would first of all like to thank you for sharing with us in this last speech. I think you were very happy in choosing the subject. The discussion on the major challenges of the country, Europe, the world, in some way, in the digital transition and in the fight against climate change reflects what our role as politicians should be. What I mean by this is that what is at stake when we talk about digital transition is not technology and what is at stake when we talk about fighting climate change is not just nature, it is people. This is the function of politicians: to fight, to work for the happiness of people, and their intervention translates this, translates what their behavior has been in this House. I cannot fail to congratulate, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, on the way in which the political struggle has been fought and to congratulate what someone has already said here, which is to bring to political combat the fight against ideas, the fight against arguments, regardless of whether we are separated from the point of view of what we think should be the organization of society and of our country. Despite everything, there has always been this loyalty, there has always been the fight in terms of arguments and not the fight person to person, who really does not matter anything to those who vote in us and who expect us to fight for them and for their happiness. I end by saying that I am voting on the name of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and on my own behalf too, so that it will have everything from here to the front, from an authentic and legislative point of view, as well as in its personal projects. Let everything go well and be quite happy. [[PS and PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u195	Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u196	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, I would like to congratulate you on your political statement, on the subject that brings us, the digital transition and the energy transition, which are the challenges of our times, no doubt. Considering also that it is your farewell intervention, I would like to note that they are probably challenges where the parliamentary debate and the ideological debate more distancing between our two parties, but that is how the country is built and that the political debate is built, with the comparison of these ideas. He referred to certain matters such as climate transition, digital transition and the digitalisation of the economy, subjects in which we have always been — and I believe we will continue to be — on the opposite sides, but always making the debate as it should be done, frankly, honestly and very frontally. That is, of course, very healthy and brings quality to our democracy. I would therefore like to leave you one last challenge with regard to these same matters. He said in his speech that there are certain challenges that do not coincide with the difference between left and right, but he will certainly understand that I disagree a lot about this statement because, when we look at the issue of climate transition and energy transition, the way we look at the transformation of the economy in these aspects, from the left and right perspective, has in fact very different ways to do, in particular, the role of public investment or private investment. So I presented this last challenge to him in his last speech, thanking, of course, the compliments he gave me and, on the side of the Left Block, wishing him all the happiness for his future path. [[Mr Ana Miguel dos Santos and Cristóvão Norte, the PSD, and Mr Telmo Correia, the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u197	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, for us it is an obvious experience and a daily reality we think that the Assembly of the Republic is an area of debate, a space of combat, a space of confrontation, but also a joint space of work in the public service. In fact, we have been working together for a few courageous hours here in the context of this confrontation of ideas, proposals and political options and, contrary to what some may try to make believe, that is obviously not all the same. It's not all the same and they're not slapped in the back in the morning and you'd scream in the afternoon. There is seriousness in the work and in the political debate that we value very much and, as you know, we do. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been guided by a position of institutional respect, parliamentary loyalty and availability for a joint work around the best solutions for the country. What we have sought, because it is important — and we think that we have this experience with Mr John Gonçalves Pereira, who knows that, in these things, the CFP is particularly concerned with words of circumstance and records that are less in line with the space of the plenary of the Republic Assembly and with the tasks and functions that we perform — it was to take up the ideologies and take the options we defend, that we advocate and represent in this House. We are not divided between those who have ideology and those who do not have it, it is important to underline it in an institutional respect framework, as I said recently, in a framework of mutual respect and knowledge and verification that, precisely on the subject that it brought us, the subject of communications, of the transitions all that you referred to, of the 5G, we were — I would say we are! — in opposing fields in relation to the economic policies we advocate. We do not have time — Mr President will signal me to finish — to resume this deepening, but Mr John Gonçalves Pereira can believe that this vote and desire for personal happiness is entirely sincere on our part. As for the others, I do not know whether I can go that far, but I also have a word of recognition and appreciation for these debates that we have been holding. [[Congratulations from the PCP, PS Members, PSP Members and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u199	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u200	Mr President, I begin by congratulating Mr João Gonçalves Pereira and, before greeting him and leaving him a note of personal and political gratitude, I would like to stress that for the last speech he made in this Chamber it could not be better the subject chosen. It is a matter that, in fact, if some join together, it will bring much more to the right in the sense that one of the great failures this government has had is precisely in the digital transition. That is why it was an excellent theme for one last intervention. I would like to welcome - for the work I recognized, which I already knew as an author - - we found ourselves in other struggles in other municipalities, and we welcome - for the respect that I have always had, not only in personal terms, for a link that already existed, but also for the recognition of the political specificity of each of the parties, the Arrival and the CDS, who have always maintained excellent relations in this House. And Mr João Gonçalves Pereira also contributed to this. I believe, Mr. Member, that the praise you heard today from all this House, praise that I am sure that I will not hear on the day you leave,... [[General laughter.]] ...are a sign of a personal and political consensus of a work... Although I am also convinced that I will leave this House for many years now. This just so you don't think it would be so fast... [[Protests by PEV MP Mariana Silva.]] It'll take me 30 years till I get out of here. At least! Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, after hearing everything we have heard, after the compliments we have heard, from the Left to the Arrival Block, there is something you can be sure of, that you have left a job worthy of registration, a work worthy of personal recognition and, above all, many friends who will extend beyond the walls of this House and beyond the walls of Parliament. I wish you good luck. In my case, I wish you personal and also political luck, because many of the CDS's fights are also the fights we are fighting in arriving, and I want you to be successful in the next fights. Portugal needs, Lisbon needs and I think democracy is gaining. [[IL, Ana Miguel dos Santos and Cristovão Norte, PSD, and Telmo Correia, CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u201	Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, in political life, and you know that better than I, there is never one last time. Your personal and political qualities give you the status of a great Member and a great Parliamentary and this was visible in the praise revealed by all the benches. I wanted to wish you all the happiness, personal and political, and to tell you that it ended with a great deal of intervention. It was a great intervention because it spoke of the future and, in this regard, I can only conclude one thing: the future will bring it back. Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u202	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking you for the words of the President and of the Members. Deputies Cristóvão Norte, João Cotrim de Figueiredo, Mariana Silva, Inês de Sousa Real, Carlos Pereira, Isabel Pires, Bruno Dias. I would like to thank the various interventions and say that I sincerely acknowledge each one of you, regardless of the differences. The differences are many, of course they are, and I follow what Mr Bruno Dias said, but if we do so with the conviction that we are defending our country and our people—and we are all, there are not some who are more and others who are less—we may also certainly have a better country. Now, about the departure, I would like to say to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo that I am making a liberal transition here. [[CH and IL rice.]] The liberal transition was the way out of Parliament and therefore I apologize for the departure, but it was not intentional. As for the issues under discussion and my intervention, which I did not want to escape, the digital transition and the energy transition are clearly the greatest challenges we have in our society, the greatest challenges that Parliament and the government themselves have. We will only be able to say whether we can provide our companies and our industry with this same transition and, for that reason, Parliament must be prepared to legislate and find ways to help and facilitate this same transition. When we talk about climate change, we need to be aware that they question human existence. I read, last week and this weekend, a book by Bill Gates, which I recommend to everyone — some will like more and others less — and there was an example that shocked me. The world consumes 15 billion liters of oil a day. And cheap! It costs less than a liter of Coca-Cola. This means that the country and the world have to bet on renewable energies and this has to be done massively, because it is only massively that we can have cheap energy. So we have several challenges. Of course, the animal issue is also relevant, it is important and the CDS has no complexities in relation to it. Innovation and technology must also be in the hands of the environment, and these are the great challenges of the country—that is why I have no doubt. I don't want to abuse my time in this speech, but I wanted to leave a final note. Parliament is an area of confrontation, of divergence — and I apologize if I have ever been "stigated" with one of you, but some of you have also "stigated" with me and, therefore, between duty and there, the thing must be balanced, but there is one thing that we have seen in the autarchic world and which we have not seen so much in Parliament (and I have the authentic experience), which is the policy of commitment. Often, it is easy to reach the compromise in the authorities. We are all going to make an effort here in Parliament — it is a challenge that I also leave to you — a compromise effort, because this commitment is well seen out there and that helps to improve our country. I leave only one last note, because I forgot to refer to a great Member, someone for whom I have a huge affection, which is the António Topa. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, PSD, CH, IL and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. João Gonçalves Ferreira, I wish you the greatest happiness. In order to make a political statement, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is difficult to initiate a political declaration after the words we have changed in this Chamber, but I am starting precisely with the last appeal made to make a compromise in fact. It is precisely because this commitment is needed that the theme of this political declaration calls for a new reflection, because from the beginning of this pandemic, the NAP has been demanding fair and necessary social support to combat the serious social and economic crisis that Portuguese families are experiencing at the moment. But as we strive to support the people and sectors most affected by this crisis, we cannot forget what brought us here and what was at the origin of this pandemic. We cannot ignore the absolutely unsustainable development of our planet and the unbridled consumption of natural resources as if they were infinite. If we do not change the way we interact with the planet, and also with the animals, we are sure that other pandemics will emerge in the future, perhaps even in a more serious way. Our role as elected and elected is to ensure that, in the near future, the world population will, for example, have access to clean water, clean air and, above all, to a living planet. We are far from the goals set to prevent humanity from suffering from the severe crisis of climate change and all the consequences that this brings for our generation and for future generations. This should be a priority on the political agenda and the NAP will keep in mind the importance of this issue, on which our survival depends indeed. the same way, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot forget how our country and the world continue to treat animals, whether pet animals or animals held for any other purpose, such as consumption. There is no concern about protecting and caring for our animals or respecting their well-being, which ultimately results in incidents with often macabre contours, such as the fire in Santo Tirso or the massacre in the Bella Tower, both still in our memory and that have eliminated any doubt that could exist about the importance that animal welfare has in our society. A few years ago it would be irrelevant for this House to talk about animal protection, but the times, fortunately, have changed. Therefore, the NAP uses today's political statement to bring this debate to light. George Orwell said that «all animals are equal, but some are more equal than others». But as far as animal protection is concerned, this statement could unfortunately not be more true! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, only this year have died in Portugal, in a context of carbonisation and fire on large livestock farms, over 5000 animals. Repeat: more than 5,000 animals died in deep agony and despair, without even mechanisms preventing the occurrence of such disasters. These animals join thousands of others who have died in previous years, all of them victims of fires on large livestock farms that, despite the risks, are not obliged to have fire detection and firefighting systems, endangering not only their workers but also thousands of animals. In the face of this tragedy, the NAP called for the hearing of the Minister of Agriculture, to see how we could prevent this from happening again. Unfortunately, this hearing was rejected by the other political forces, with the exception of the Left Block, because they consider it irrelevant to hear who has competence in this matter. But then, when, and well, skills are withdrawn to whom it shows total inability to promote animal welfare, there arise the voices of the habit, unconformed. This is just one of many examples showing that the life of these thousands of animals has no value or, worse, that there is something about these fires that you do not want to be clarified. We have therefore presented a bill for livestock farms to be obliged to have fire detection and prevention systems, filling up a serious failure which, in our view, legislation has and which questions the lives of people working in these places, but also the lives of animals. These fires on livestock farms should remind the Government and the parliamentary groups of another issue: it is urgent to include animals in the civil protection intervention plans, in particular relief plans, so that nothing remains in the same and that thousands of animals die every year. The Assembly of the Republic has indeed the possibility of doing so, making the initiatives in processing and appreciation in this House possible. This reality also adds to the importance of ensuring the well-being of animals held and created for consumption purposes so that our country does not stay behind countries such as England or Spain, where there is already a public consultation on animal welfare, which goes to meet another NAP initiative, which provides for the installation of closed television circuits in slaughterhouses. We believe that, from its transport to its slaughter, animals should be treated with respect and dignity, which does not happen in the slaughterhouses of our country, despite the promotion of animal welfare being today an unmistakable duty of the Member States of the European Union. But still in relation to animal protection, recently for three months, we had more than 1600 animals on board a ship on the Spanish coast, without any kind of medical-veterinary assistance, under absolutely degrading conditions and waiting for a solution that took a long time to reach many of them. Hundreds of animals died on board without any medical or veterinary assistance. His corpses were thrown into the sea. All because of a suspicion, not even confirmed, of a blue-language outbreak that blocked the landing of these animals, condemning them to months on the high seas, without any assistance, piled over each other and also, of course, without any solution or commitment. Also when the Suez Canal was blocked because of the Ever Given ship, about 20 ships carrying live animals were prevented from passing, prolonging the subjection of animals again to the adverse conditions of maritime transport. And here too, ladies and gentlemen. Members, initiative after initiative, we see animal welfare being left behind, plagued by economic interests, which have done nothing to strengthen animal protection in this matter. That is why it is incomprehensible that at this time we still have to remind this Assembly of the Republic that the animals we have to protect are not just pets. Regardless of the purpose for which they are detained, all, without exception, must be entitled to conditional and humanitarian treatment. In this regard, we hope that the appointment of the Provider of Animals, a measure by which the NAP both battled and that it was representing not only pets, but all animals, can in fact contribute to making the difference and strengthening animal protection in our country. The way we look at and treat animals tells us more about ourselves, as humanity, than about what our condition is, also about animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u205	Mrs. Deputy, four Members have signed up. Members to make requests for clarification. First of all, Mr João Moura, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u206	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, with regard to animal production and animal holdings, the NAP has already used us to get her point of view from a rather urban or urban perspective, a perspective like FarmVille: an almost idyllic view of animal breeding. In addition, the NAP has a great prejudice in relation to meat consumption, but it is a somewhat prejudiced or camouflaged, for they eat croissants and hamburgers, provided they are vegan, they eat sausages and hamburgers, provided they are vegetarian, they eat birds and bats, provided they are 100 % vegetable. [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u207	What's the joke?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u208	Mrs. Members, the real environmentalists, those who are friends of nature, who are rigorous, have in their mind a scientific basis. The question is: when the NAP is fundamentalist in terms of meat consumption, is it on a scientific basis? Do you speak with scientific parameters or based on objectives in your beliefs? I think the NAP does it because of ideology. If we are human, our nature is omnivorous, it's eating meat, it's eating protein. Well, I know some people choose not to, choose vegetable protein or synthetic protein. But, Mrs. Member, what is the alternative we have? Is the consumption of soybean protein, with intensive production, in Brazil, in which the Amazon forest is destroyed? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u209	Or is it, for example, how does Singapore do with synthetic chickens, through a protein created in a laboratory? Madam Member, what we want to say here is that the NAP cannot convert the rural world into its agroecological Disneyland. You cannot try to condition production and animal holdings. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u210	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr João Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, in fact, told us about the importance of access to a living planet. We shared the concern that brought us here about the environmental problems caused by the intensification of animal holdings, but we did not expect the NAP to worry, which has never done, with family agriculture, with small farms, especially with those that are, in fact, the main gardeners on the planet, who are the small farmers and family farming. The honourable Member has the perfect notion that she does not defend the small exploitation. In fact, it diabolizes those with 10, 15 or 20 heads of cattle, which contributes to the fixing of the population in the territory, and does not value or understand the importance of livestock farming. Mrs Deputy, I assure you that small livestock producers need to be on their farm every day. Whether Saturday, Sunday, holidays or holidays, they have to be there every day to look after and look at their farms. And it is these farms that create jobs, create jobs, fix the population, occupy territory and prevent major fires. in this sense, she knows that for every small holding that closes — and that the NAP does not defend — it is more a major exploitation that absorbs that market. Still, I wanted to share another great concern about the food shortage. Do you know how much more than EUR 1000 million is imported in terms of environmental impact, in terms of impact on the economy, national production? Do you have this concern, in terms of environmental problems, or do you have the idea that only our cows, our cattle, produce greenhouse gases and that others, created in other countries, are electrical and do not produce greenhouse gases? Oh, my God! No, Mrs. Member...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u212	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u213	I will finish, Mr. President. I ask you, Madam Member, if you follow the idea, shared by the Minister of the Environment, that it is cheaper to buy out there than to produce here. And now I would like to appreciate the important role of DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary) technicians who defend animal welfare and health, and especially public health. Mrs. Deputy is not protecting the animals. in this sense, above all, is not concerned about animal welfare.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u215	You have the floor, also for a request for clarification, Mr João Azevedo Castro, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we thank Mrs Inês de Sousa Real for her suggestion. We would like to address what we know as animal production. Agriculture and livestock are an essential economic activity for human life. Livestock is a sector that has transformed significantly, restructured, organized and prepared for the challenges of the future. It is a fundamental activity in the agri-food sector, responsible for a safe and accessible production of the food of the highest known nutritional value, present in the food wheel — milk. It is essential to feed populations. many families and businesses depend on it. Today, it is a brand of many of our territories, contributing significantly to man's relationship with nature and animals, which goes far beyond pets. For many years, the country has been implementing and respecting rules of animal management and welfare. Nobody likes their animals more than livestock producers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u217	They feed us every day, rise to the hours that are necessary when they are sick and know their name. There are even happy cows! Portugal and its regions have a strong potential to produce more food and to be more self-sufficient. The times of difficulty should mean an opportunity for the implementation of policies that oppose the depopulation of rural change and the exploitation of our territory. With regard to the environmental footprint, science has already shown that it is possible to drastically reduce emissions produced, particularly in livestock, by ensuring the desire for food. Madam Member, the question I leave you with is: in the obvious context of the indispensable animal health, what is the alternative of the NAP to our territories and to the rural world? Do you really think that the way is the restriction and imposition of a food dictatorship, as you have recommended? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u218	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Inês de Sousa Real for bringing this matter to plenary. I would also like to say that speeches have been made here which I think are quite « stratospheric», particularly that of Mr João Moura. But what we are interested in is in fact about this impunity and this lack of control over the livestock industry. We are talking a lot about animal welfare issues, but we are also talking about licensing issues, the use of the water environment and also water pollution itself. I'm going to give three examples to figure out how we're still not so evolved, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as regards livestock holdings. In Lousada, there is a livestock that takes the banks of the river and has more livestock effect than is permitted by law. And that's still allowed. In Marco de Canaveses, there is another totally illegal exploitation. Not only does it bother the animal welfare, but it also bothers all the other neighbors and neighbors who live there. But the most paradigmatic example, which we all know, is that of the Lis basin, in which there is a commitment to control the pollution of the Lis river : first in 2018 by this Assembly of the Republic ; then in 2019 by the Government ; and a total retreat by both the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of the Environment in 2020. The question we are asking here at this time is how the NAP follows this total downturn by the Government on this impunity and lack of control, because if there is still this pollution of the Lis basin, it is because these livestock continue to exist and the rivers can be polluted at the end of so many years. in this sense, I would like to see whether the honourable Member is accompanying this retreat or whether we continue to work in order to ensure not only animal welfare, but it is also considered that the livestock that do not comply with the law should not exist, in the sense that they harm the whole ecosystem. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u220	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u221	Mr President, I would begin by replying to Mr. João Moura, who not only has a very fertile imagination as he certainly did not hear the subject I brought here. It is that we have not come to talk about vegetarianism, nor about gastronomic options, we have come to talk about something which, perhaps, does not appear in its lexicon, which is animal welfare. It is essential to ensure that those who work with animals have the ability to do so. I think it is regrettable that you come here to defend your personal interests, because here we must defend the interests of the community. So if you have a livestock farm, you shouldn't even be here to talk about it. But these are different positions that each one of us has about what is public service and public life, particularly in this Chamber. As far as the facts we have brought here are concerned, he has questioned his scientific basis. I remember that the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change was the first to warn about the impact that intensive and superintensive livestock has on climate change, the environment and even public health or animal welfare. It is not the PAN that says so, Mr. We can be fantastic in a few things—and in that regard, the honourable Member has made some exchanges and some jokes—but we are not proud, nor are we, of course, among many other renowned scientists. But there is, in fact, a predatory behaviour here, Mr. And this extends to the other interventions, with the exception of Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, whose concerns we are accompanying, in relation to what has been a total lack of supervision by the Government as to not only the issues of animal welfare, but also the absolutely illegal livestock holdings that remain open, as well as the effluents themselves that continue to affect what is the environment. Mr. João Castro, I would like to ask you this question: what will your Government, the government supported by the PS Parliamentary Group, do about these situations? It is because you did not talk about well-being either, and that is what we brought here today. We would like to know what you are actually going to do. Mr João Dias spoke at DGAV, but when we called Mr. Minister of Agriculture here, Mr. João Castro's parliamentary group rejected this hearing, the hearing of that Minister that you greatly value. So I'd like to know what you are. Members will do so to solve the serious problem of animal welfare that exists in our country. As far as this is concerned, the honourable Members are concerned. Members are not going to do anything, because they continue to hold hands with the interests of agribusiness and livestock. But we will be here, not to make this House a Disneyland or whatever it is, but to continue to put on the political agenda animal welfare, which has so often been left out.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u222	For a political statement, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I thought long before I made the political statement that I am going to make today. But I am going to do it, even at the risk of the same being misinterpreted or being misinterpreted in an abusive way. We have the institutions under attack. In a few months, Portugal lost its full democracy ranking, fell into the corruption ranking in the public sector and, little by little, while in the coffee conversation we speak of Venezuela and the way to that country, we are losing control of a country that is increasingly being suffocated by political power. But not only suffocated by political power, as with the complicity of those who should denounce the one who is an irreversible path. News, which are not ours, but are from respectable media agencies, say, for example: "The secret order which prohibited the testimony of Marcelo and António Costa in the case of Tancos". It is news like this that sometimes makes us laugh and sometimes cry, without understanding or reporting, that we are or can be on an irreversible path, of which we will not be able very easily to recover. I'll give you an example. Nicolas Sarkozy was President of France. In October last year, he began to be judged for corruption and influence trafficking. In March of this year, he was sentenced to three years in prison. José Socrates was arrested in 2014. We're in 2021, and the country expects an instructional decision from an instruction court. In the case of Ricardo Salgado, it happened the following year. And the country hopes, I'm surprised, that these cases will be solved. All this in the face of the passivity of political power, in the face of the complicity of the highest institutions in the country and the scenario, which does not resolve and fear not to resolve, a country and a people who look inside and say: "What country do we have, what institutions do we have, to take advantage of? Do not keep on seeking. ” In the middle of this, the Attorney-General of the Republic has been removed — and this is not the case with the people who are now in front of the Attorney-General of the Republic — as the President of the Court of Auditors has been removed. This in the face of the passivity of a Parliament which has not been able to lead to shock on the street, the country which has seen, name after name, the judicial institutions are, at least by attempt, controlled. I also speak of the European Prosecutor or the Procurator away, in silence from a large part of the country, before choosing another name that we all knew was linked to the Socialist Party. With all this, we still think that we are not on our way to Venezuela, but that we are, tragically or in essence, developing and deepening our democracy. We have to report this. Today many in Portugal are interested in maintaining the control of justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the courts, which we cannot fail to denounce. That is what leads me to want to make this political statement today. As you all know, an illegalization process is under way in relation to the party I lead. Party leaders represented here have called for the illegalization of an elected party to this House and whose leader has obtained half a million votes in the last presidential elections. Presidential candidates, supported by parties here, submitted complaints and called for the illegalisation of the party, my arrest and closure of this party's premises. Where have we heard this, except in Venezuela, Nicolás Maduro, or North Korea? Where have we heard this? And we remain silent when the country’s largest author, Fernando Medina, says: “In fact, sooner or later, we will have to discuss the illegalization of a political party, called ‘ arrive’ because it is consistently against our values, because it is racist, xenophobic and is a threat to democracy. Do not keep on seeking. ” Others say that the same parties that have supported for decades are not a threat for one reason: because in polls they don't count at all. The reason for the threat is growth. And it is this growth, surrounding the judicial bodies, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Constitutional Court, who want to stop, so that they can shut up an uncomfortable voice in democracy. Since last week, reports from international organizations point to arriving as a danger to democracy. These are commissioned reports! Let no one doubt: commissioned reports! Human rights Commissioners have 27 countries to talk about, but they talk about a party that supposedly threatens Portuguese democracy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 18th, thousands of people will concentrate-CL in Lisbon to condemn what is an enormous and enormous attack on institutions and on a party. For the 18th day we called on the whole party — its militants, its supporters and its leaders — to join the institutions of the Republic, the Constitutional Court and this House, to say that no one in this country has the authority to illegalize a political party. The arrival came from the Portuguese people and only the Portuguese people could illegalize it. No authority in this land, appointed by which government it is or by which institution it is, can one day sign a judgment or an order to say « they are illegal, they are illegal, they do not exist, they are a flock of criminals representing the Portuguese people». In the face of the passivity of a Parliament, which does not stand up to defend what democracy should be and the freedom of political pluralism, we, Mr President, will resist. I want to finish this by saying the following: I never threatened the institutions in my life, and I will never do it! Never will the leaders of the Arrival or their party threaten courts, sovereignty or power in Portugal — we will never do so! But we will resist, because, as Thomas Jefferson said, reacting to dictatorship is obedience to God. And, in this case, we resist what is an unattainable, intolerable act of illegalizing a political party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u224	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u225	I will finish, Mr. President. We are not judges of the Constitutional Court, nor prosecutors of the Public Prosecutor's Office, nor have we appointed these prosecutors or judges. But there is one thing I want to say to you, Mr President, and to this House: we will resist, we will resist to the end! There must be an order, let there be a decision, there is one thing that I assure you: we will resist on the street, in all the streets of Portugal, before such a vile act, of threat to our existence. We'll stand to the end!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u226	To request clarification, Mr. Carlos Peixoto of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u227	Mr President, Mr Ventura, I will ask you some factual questions to hear your answers and then we will see whether we are in tune with this. Do you know who put us in the last places in Europe in the indices of corruption and transparency? Do you know who moved from the Ministry of Justice to the Judicial Police three people to key places, one of them to control the listening? Do you know, by any chance, Mr. Member who has a prosecutor in your office who has been convicted of pressing colleagues not to investigate José Socrates? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u228	And do you know, by any chance, who was the government that was pleased with today's exemption from seal tax, million, on the sale of dams, or who has reduced to a minimum the public discussion period of the Recovery and Resilience Plan (PRR)? Mr President, there is an idea that has settled down — and I therefore congratulate you on bringing this issue here — that there is someone who is doing everything to control the controllers, to keep the guards. I don't know if this is democratic asphyxiation or not, what I know is that this is starting to be bad democracy. That is why it has done very well to bring this issue here, because of the hygiene of public life and political life, which we must all have the responsibility to preserve, maintain and ensure for the future of this country. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u229	With no further inscriptions, you have the floor to answer, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u230	Mr President, Mr Peixoto, thank you very much for the questions you have raised. It is because we know all this and it is precisely because we have been aware of these and others in our democracy in recent years that we have to speak precisely in democratic asphyxiation. It is that when a State begins to use justice as a way to condition political opponents or as a way to pursue political parties, that is a sign that we are on the wrong path. Controlling controllers was something we commonly rejected in the foundation of our rule of law. In the liberalism we welcomed in that rostrum, the great initial pact was the independence of the controllers. And that is the independence of the controllers, which is threatened today. [[PS laughter.]] And while you laugh at prosecutors moving from place to place, there are judges being nominated for control positions and there are prosecutors who were close to Prime Ministers who were there just to stop them from being investigated. As they laugh, there is a country sinking into a sea of corruption, without even being able to fight for it. And I tell you more: we can always laugh at the threat, especially when the threat does not touch us, when the threat is something directed to the other side. It is very easy to laugh when we are friends of the government and we know that the government here will be to give us a hand when necessary. But, my friends, arriving isn't here to be a friend of the government. The arrival is here to be a friend of the Portuguese people. And it is this people who will give us legitimacy and strength to resist. It is for him that we will resist, even if you continue or try to continue to numb the institutions, because our struggle is worth it. It is a struggle for which the Portuguese people have mandated us and that no authority in this land can withdraw us. It is the struggle for sovereignty: we, the people! This Constitution, which you so much like, says that justice is applied on behalf of the people, is not on behalf of the Socialist Party, nor on behalf of the Left Block, nor on behalf of any party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u231	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u232	Justice in Portugal, in accordance with the Constitution, is applied on behalf of the people. And I will defend until the end, as long as the force here remains, this Portuguese people, because I will never accept an illegalization decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u233	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, finished the political statements, we moved to the third item on the agenda, which is part of the discussion of draft resolutions Nos 949 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Adaptation of the rules of access to the APOIAR measure to companies that continue to work and 970 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government allow access to the programs APOIAR + SIMPLES and APOIAR RENDAS to entrepreneurs on an individual basis without employees in charge, together with, in general, the Bills Nos 712 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the exceptional and temporary measure of the admissibility of suspension of essential service supply contracts in the context of responses to the epidemic crisis of COVID-19, 716 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Change the deadlines for general assemblies and 717 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — establishes the extension and extension of bank moratoriums, and with Resolution Projects Nos 979 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Measures to support the recovery of the economy, 1038 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By mobilizing support to shopkeepers in the context of the fight against the epidemic of COVID-19, 1039 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By reviewing the regime for the operation of economic activities of goods and services in the context of the fight against the epidemic of COVID-19, 1040 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By improving measures to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in response to the impacts of the COVID-19 epidemic, 1041 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Establish the network of contact and support to microenterprises and individual entrepreneurs for access to response measures for the epidemic by COVID-19 and 1051 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Recommends that the Government extend the APOIAR programme to individual enterprises and entrepreneurs who have been excluded from the measures of that programme. First of all, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the initiative of the CDS, today we discuss a project that several other parties have joined together to improve and make the APOIAR Programme more fair. When we go with more than one year of pandemic, it is possible to make a balance sheet, even before, of the support that the Government has drawn and has been drawing throughout this year. In addition to support for employment, the government's philosophy and practice of intervention focused mainly on lines of credit and moratoriums, and the support is largely lost, that the APOIAR is the most finished example, only arrived at a second stage of the pandemic and in a very, very small way. If we think that the government itself estimated last year in 2020 that the value that the families did not pay to the banks and that it remained in a moratorium was EUR 6100 million, while the payments of the APOIAR Programme to the companies would go to 620 million, already entering the year of 2021, we realize that the deep-lost support was one tenth of the moratoriums — I repeat, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, one tenth. Yesterday we heard the association representing travel agencies alerting that a hundred has not yet been paid under the APOIR RENDAS programme. The fact that the background of this government choice continues to be the propaganda of millions after millions — and still in recent weeks I heard more than 1000 million, or 6000 million — is even more disturbing, because it does not correspond to reality. And the result of the difference between what a businessman feels that he cannot simply survive, because he has to be closed and he cannot work, when he sees these announcements of millions behind millions, is undoubtedly outrage. There are those who say that they are very angry about populism and hear very politically correct speeches about populism. Perhaps it is worth thinking about the roots of this outrage and realizing that making politics truly is better than any speech to combat populism. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the project we are presenting today does not solve all these problems, but it can solve a problem, a concrete problem, in a simple, fair and easy way. Explaining, there are restaurants that have continued to work in the only way they could, that is, using delivery platforms. Now, in the case of some of these platforms — although not all of them — the service provided is billed to the final customer by the restaurant and is then paid by the restaurant to the platform. Result: What does this mean? The invoicing of restaurants is thus emulated, they have more invoicing, so that they cannot access the APOIR Program. But, in reality, they have costs corresponding to this increase, which is the cost of the service of the platform. What we propose is that the APOIAR Programme rules be reviewed and adapted so that these restaurants are not excluded, i.e., so that these restaurants that have chosen to continue working are not excluded from restaurants that could not or chose to be closed during this period.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u235	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the NAP introduced this proposal for a recommendation more than a month ago, it was the intention of the Assembly of the Republic to recommend to the Government a problem which, in fact, should not have happened with the support programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises. In these programmes, the Government only guarantees this support to individual entrepreneurs who were in charge of them, which was, in fact, unreasonable. More than two thirds of SMEs in Portugal are represented by individual entrepreneurs. In 2018, there were some 874 000 in Portugal, equivalent to 67 % of all companies, of which 200 000 are active in the trade and restoration sectors. More than 70 % of these individual entrepreneurs have no other workers besides themselves. We all know that, in the sectors most affected by the restriction of economic activities, the smaller the size of the company, the greater the impact on people's lives. in this framework, the case of individual entrepreneurs is particularly worrying, especially given the support they can try to access, especially in the sectors of trade, restoration and culture, in these programs APOIR + SIMPLES, to support liquidity, and APOIR RENDAS, to support income commitments. under the scope of the APOIAR programme, all individual employers who did not have their employees were excluded from these support. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, such exclusion meant, in the trade and restoration sectors, for example, about 139 000 individual entrepreneurs who were unable to use the APOIAR programme. Finally, on 24 March, and after leaving these entrepreneurs without support, the Government withdrew the obligation of individual entrepreneurs to have workers in addition to themselves to access the support. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite the initial recommendation from the NAP has already achieved its purpose, the APOIAR Programme continues to present shortcomings which should be corrected as soon as possible for reasons of justice and equity in access to support. One of the shortcomings that this project that the NAP brings to the debate aims to overcome is the exclusion of the most recent companies, i.e. constituted after 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u237	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u238	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Government cannot forget these companies, which, of course, made a great economic investment in a situation of extreme social vulnerability.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u239	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP's intervention on measures to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises has been consistently, systematically, coherently and constructively guided by the presentation of concrete proposals and solutions to the problems of businesses and workers. The demand — and the insistence! — in order for the necessary measures and for them to be actually implemented, unlocked, effectively implemented in the field, at the same time, are the expression of the commitment and determination of the CFP to respond to the problems of the country. As we have so many times said, it's really worth fighting. It was worth, and worth all the work, mobilization and intervention of micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and their organizations, which we welcome, with natural emphasis on CPPME (Portuguese Confederation of Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises ). in this plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic has the opportunity to adopt measures of greater importance for the concrete life of people, for the life of businesses, for the effectiveness and continuity of support to address the impacts of this pandemic crisis. We propose that the rules on access to support be corrected, eliminating discrimination by sector of activity, adapting the criteria to reality and giving them justice. We propose that there be a solution to the unbearable difficulties in contact with the State services — IAPMEI, I.P. - Agency for Competitiveness and Innovation, Social Security, Tax Authority, with the creation of a network of contacts and support for micro-enterprises and individual entrepreneurs. We propose that, for another six months, the moratoriums now ending should be maintained, that appropriations contracted by 31 December 2020 be included and that the absurd restrictions imposed on the economic activity code should be removed. We propose an extraordinary and temporary regime allowing the suspension of energy and telecommunications contracts by micro and small entrepreneurs and ENI(individual entrepreneurs) who have the door closed in the current context. We propose the mobilization of support for shopkeepers from shopping centres. We are available to follow the other initiatives and work together for the best solutions, but without waste of time and no fun maneuvers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, refusing, dragging, delaying, hindering the implementation of support measures or the effective access of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to such support can be used to save now in the deficit, but that is not what the country needs. It cannot continue this difficulty in moving forward with the measures. The government came there late and late, integrating some of the subjects we had been insisting on. It is urgent to move forward with the answers to the problems, not the score, nor the counter-gost, but decisively and effectively! This is the opportunity now put before this House, approving the proposals of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u241	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country has been living for more than a year with a pandemic crisis, but also with a social and economic crisis. The way in which the government has delayed access to proposals that were obvious from the outset, such as the question of the lost fund, and how it has saved in social support, at the expense of obsession with the deficit is elucidative than not to do in a response to the crisis with the dimension of what we live. Between the announcement and the implementation of the measures have already passed months, which, of course, leaves thousands of micro and small businesses and workers with life on hold. This brings insecurity, instability and great difficulty in planning the future at least. The support that should be reaching companies and workers is still leaving many and many behind. It is therefore necessary to adapt existing support to make them easier. That is what we achieved with the extension of the criteria for supporting APOYAR RENDAS, for example with a resolution published yesterday. But more is needed. For example, the Government should exclude the costs of transport charged by external entities by companies from the reference value, in particular for restoration, as well as the need to include companies formed in 2020. On the other hand, one of the most recurrent criticisms from almost all sectors of activity indicates that the large generality of micro and small entrepreneurs is still not receiving support. It's been over a year since the beginning of this pandemic. This is now due to difficulties in accessing programs such as APOIR, or because the lines of these programs close too early. We recall that in December, according to the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), more than 50 % of Portuguese companies had reduced invoicing but only 30 % had access to some support. In the case of restoration, the numbers were even worse. Therefore, we propose to adapt the criteria of the APOIR.PT program to reach more people and faster to more people and businesses. On credit lines, the idea that they are a salvation is wrong because they mean accumulation of debt without perspective, yet, of how it will deal with it. We therefore propose an answer that will speed up the deadlines for payment of appropriations in order to create conditions favourable to the maintenance of employment and economic recovery. A final note on the issue of moratoriums. At the request of the Left Block, the Governor of the Banco de Portugal was heard yesterday about this because it creates a scenario of uncertainty, which needs to be clarified. As the largest oxygen balloon for families and businesses in the face of the crisis in the face of insufficient state support, this solution poses risks — risks to the stability of the financial system, it is true, but risks to families and businesses. Without income, the return, without more, of debt payments, however increased by interest capitalization, is a bankruptcy sentence. Today, March 31, wins the first significant tranche of moratoriums, private moratoriums, created under the Portuguese Banks Association, which essentially cover consumer credit and some housing credit. Consumer credit expires 12 months after the contract, with the limit of 30 June. However, there is still a lack of information on their situation. The sudden end of the moratoriums, in view of the effective recovery of the economy and incomes, can lead to a wave of failures with effects on the economy, employment and levels of poverty. It is clear, therefore, that a restructuring programme will need to be implemented which will suit the return on payments to the financial situation of each debtor. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the adaptation of the OPAIR.PT criteria, greater attention to the periods of lack of credit lines, and what to do with moratoriums are essential issues that take too long to be answered by the Government. The crisis we are going through does not allow us to wait, but requires, yes, more rapid action and action in this one year or more since the beginning of the pandemic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u243	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP spoke in connection with the presentation of initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The APOIAR programme, which the CDS brings today—and well—for discussion, was created with the aim of supporting companies which had broken more than 25 % of turnover, in order to contribute to enable these companies to bear the operating costs, thus aiming to mitigate the negative impacts on the billing caused by the pandemic and contributing to the survival of micro and small enterprises. As a result of the new restrictions, motivated by the worsening epidemiological situation, which determined the suspension or closure of certain types of activities, this programme was eventually extended through Ordinance Nos 15 - B / 2021, and now includes the losses of invoices recorded throughout the year 2020. The same diploma also extended support to 1. the quarter of 2021, with a view to early compensating any billing losses recorded by the companies in this quarter following the suspension and closure of activities. Among other changes to the program, the portfolio also creates two measures, the APOIAR + SIMPLES and the APOIAR RENDAS. Despite the importance that the Greens attach to these two measures, they have left out the individual entrepreneurs without organised accounting and have no workers on behalf of others, which has excluded thousands of individual entrepreneurs from the measures. In fact, if, through the recent Ordinance No. 69 -A / 2021, the Government has corrected this injustice by extending the APOIAR + SIMPLES measure to entrepreneurs on an individual basis without organised accounts and without other employees, by also extending the APOIAR RENDAS measure, as they defend The Greens in the draft resolution that we now present, on the other hand, the Government intends not to reformulate the APOIAR Programme, in order to cover many micro and small enterprises, which have been excluded, in particular by statistical criteria, because they have an artificial turnover or because they have been created after the outbreak of the pandemic. In fact, in addition to the companies that started the activity in 2020, many others, created in 2019, were also not covered by « statistical variables », as a result of having effectively started the activity months after they were created. However, the months of inactivity between the creation of the company and the effective start of activity result in a fall in the monthly turnover average in 2019. In the restoration sector, APOIAR has left out many companies due to this artificial billing. In fact, and in the face of the difficulties experienced by the sector, many restaurants have tried alternatives to survive and ensure their jobs, in particular by adapting the products or the ingredients, in order to be more sold at a distance and thus using channels and delivery platforms. However, these platforms require additional charges — such committees that we all hear — which almost completely absorb the margins of restaurants. In addition to the commissions charged, there are platforms where delivery rates are invoiced directly by the restaurants, thus artificially increasing their sales, being subsequently subject to an account meeting between the platform and restaurants. In other words, there are restaurants that see their invoicing increased, replacing themselves with platforms, without removing any benefit or margin from this invoicing, nor providing the restaurant with any service, being impaired in access to the APOIAR Program, which represents a loud injustice. Now, the legislative initiative now presented by the Greens is precisely intended to remove this injustice, thus seeking to contribute to ensuring the survival of these micro and small businesses and to maintain jobs in this difficult period of bankruptcy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u245	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The structure of this APOIAR programme clearly demonstrates the ease with which the PS government binds the complicator in these economic systems. There is the APOYAR.PT, the APOYAR RESTORATION, the APOYAR RENDAS, the APOYAR + SIMPLES... Well, the simplest is that, in fact, it is not, and so many sectors complain about the lack of support, although there are Members to say, on television, that this is not just fiction. It's all a complication. First, there are some sectors that can access and others that cannot — now, for example, can access bakery, pastry, pyrotechnics — ; then, applications are opened; then, the deadline is extended; then, new contests are opened, and we return to the beginning and resume the calvary. There are maximum limits, depending on the revenue; restoration breaks on an undetermined basis; whether they have organized accounting or not; whether they have workers or not and if they have one support no longer has the other, and in the end, no one knows what the most advantageous support for each situation. In the midst of all this confusion, we believe that the President of the Republic has promulgated the diploma approved here, which extends the whole of the social support provided for independent workers, managers and individual entrepreneurs. But we repeat what we have said since the beginning: in this difficult situation, a state that has taxed so many and so long and that now does not leave businesses and people working has an obligation to ensure that support is simple to understand and simple to access. This is definitely not the time for more bureaucracies of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u247	Mr Carlos Silva, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are discussing the issue of bank moratoriums. This is one of the concerns that the country has in front of the post-COVID-19. Without any doubt, we are facing a very serious issue. It is very serious for families, for companies, and it must require all of us to reflect and take responsible, weighted and demanding action. From tomorrow, thousands and thousands of families again have to pay the monthly allowance of their home to the bank, at a time when, as a result of the crisis, the Portuguese in distress have less income or are even without income. The government’s answer was: “Patience, it’s life! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is also studying and evaluating the impact on the maturity of suspensions of the forthcoming moratoriums. Other European countries have decided to take a different path in aid and incentives for families and businesses. The aid was direct to the sectors of economic activity, which closed. In Portugal, with the moratoriums, the government pushed the belly, transferring to the banks the function of helping families and businesses. I am not, with this, devaluation of the role of moratoriums in the economy, but the lack of concrete support measures is being dramatic, although the government announces several vacancies in support of the pandemic and the economy. See the various PowerPoints, all beautiful, of socialist propaganda. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not because they are exposed on the government portal that the support comes to businesses and families.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u249	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u250	The lack of this support from the Government was replaced by the cushion of the moratoriums and disguised the clash and shock of the reality of the crisis we are going through. I don't know if this has happened because of incompetence or the overthrow of the government. With a highly indebted economy, with sharp breakdowns of income, the only emergency remedy the government had, the moratoriums, are suspended when the reason for their adoption as public policy is far from being overcome. The Governor of the Banco de Portugal recommended last December that no stimulus and incentives be withdrawn from the economy without the economy progressing, but the government, from which he was the Minister of Finance until recently, olympically ignored it. The pandemic has not yet ended, and it is still not known whether the Portuguese economy comes out of intensive care and the State is already preparing itself, without any alternative, to withdraw support and incentives, forgetting the thousands and thousands of Portuguese being left behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u251	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u252	Portugal has more than twice the volume of other countries of the European Union in moratoriums. We don't understand why the government didn't listen to the alerts and did not ring the bells in the Ministry of Finance. This situation is explosive: 23 % of the total credit is in moratoriums. We are the second country in the European Union with more use of moratoriums. Unfortunately, we have no knowledge of palliative measures by the Government which, responsiblely, compensate for the withdrawal of these same moratoriums. The deterioration of the economy in paragraph 1. the trimester was violent, put pressure on the main macroeconomic indicators. Unemployment is rising, failures are shooting, entire sectors are stopped. Portugal was one of the least used public resources to help companies protect themselves from the effects of the pandemic. The INE estimates that only 2, 3 % of GDP was used in the impact and aid to companies; the budgetary balance was over 34 billion in addition to the forecast in public accounts; the Budget was drawn up for an unrealistic economic development, which is not going to happen. Therefore, the PSD is very concerned and will act responsibly to find the best solutions to help families and businesses overcome this crisis. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u253	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr. Carlos Silva was unable to say here what his party said yesterday, i.e. that, with regard to the moratoriums, they would vote in favour of the Portuguese Communist Party project, knowing that they do not agree with the same project and that, at the end of the day, the proposed solution is impossible. With regard to moratoriums, what the PSD is trying to do is, forgive me, an exercise of hypocrisy. It is called to this, with all frontality, to deceive the Portuguese and not tell what they are coming to! Yesterday, the Governor of the Banco de Portugal — and the PSD knows - told us in the Committee on Budgets and Finance that the extension of moratoriums outside the European framework would have serious consequences for the Portuguese economy and also said that this framework was extremely difficult. As I said, extending the moratoriums can only be done within the European framework, and this is not foreseen in the draft of the Communist Party of Portugal, for which the honourable Members are concerned. PSD members announced that they would vote in favour. To go this way is to place companies and families benefiting from moratoriums as defaulters and to prevent them from accessing banking services. Going along this path is to create a financial system under strong pressure, raising credit levels in non-compliance, forcing the creation of inequalities and generating major problems for banks. Going this way is creating false expectations, it's not being serious and not telling the truth to the Portuguese. Any changes to the moratorium regime, to be made, can only be made in the European framework, as has happened so far, both in private moratoriums and in public moratoriums—in fact, the private moratoriums that cease today correspond to 10 % of the total moratoriums. The time calls us to work with the government, with the financial system, with families and businesses, does not call us to demagogy, does not call us to deceive the Portuguese. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Everything that doesn't go this way, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undermining trust in institutions, and it does not count on the Socialist Party for this task. Democracy needs a responsible and serious opposition, but what the PSD is offering to the Portuguese, forgive me, is a disqualified and not serious opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u255	You heard me wrong, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u256	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u257	Mr President, first of all, I just wanted to ask if there were no more interventions, because...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u258	There are no more inscriptions, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u259	Mr President, I am sorry, if I may, I would still like to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u260	After all, Mr Duarte Alves, it seems that one has emerged now. You have the floor, Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u261	Mr President, once again, I apologize, but as there were parties that still had time, it might not be the closing intervention. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be very clear. Sometimes people hear only what they want to hear and forget to be attentive to all public intervention. It happens to any mortal, and it also happened to Mr Fernando Anastácio. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is paradoxical is that Portugal still lives in a state of emergency, with severe restrictions on economic activity and families, the economic crisis gives signs of aggravation, people cannot circulate between municipalities, they cannot go to a restaurant to eat, but for you, they can start to pay from now on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u262	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u263	Here's the difference.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u264	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u265	In conclusion, Mr President, we say the following: precisely as these restrictions prevail, the moratoriums must also be extended exclusively during this stage and, of course, respecting the agreement that the Government has to reach with the European Banking Authority. Do your job, because the Portuguese make it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u266	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is true that one of the projects that will be voted on today is the PCP project on bank moratoriums and it is necessary to understand what makes the PCP bring about this initiative. In fact, we are in a situation where there are still no conditions for many families to start paying home benefits and for many micro-enterprises to start paying the benefits of the credits they have contracted. In view of this obvious and urgent reality that we live in, an urgent measure is necessary, which is the extension of moratoriums for another six months—and for now only for another six months—with the idea that we cannot immediately start paying benefits when life does not yet allow it, because the normality required has not yet been recovered. It is also true that we need substantive answers and that the extension of moratoriums does not solve everything, but for these substantive responses, the CFP also brought here proposals, in support of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in support of workers' incomes, because that is, are ways to ensure normality in life and in fulfilling each one's responsibilities. Our initiative also aims to extend the deadline for people who, for some reason, have acceded to private moratoriums to public moratoriums, if they so understand and if they have conditions for that. On the issue which was raised yesterday by the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, what we say is simple: the real trap is the banking union. The banking union is putting this trap on a very specific situation in our country, which is different from other European countries, where there is difficulty in many people being involved in these moratoriums. So what the Government and Banco de Portugal do is watch over national interests. And if yesterday it became clear that this proposal has feet to be approved as a starting point, and we hope that it will be so, what Mr. Governor of the Banco de Portugal should have done was to pick up immediately on the telephone and call the European authorities to find solutions and not put obstacles in place.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u268	Work! Work!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u269	The situation we are now living is that it is not sustainable. People can't start paying without conditions to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u270	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u271	These conditions must be created, but now, in view of the situation that is created, we must respond urgently and prolong these moratoriums. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u272	Mrs. However, Mr Ricardo Leão of the PS was registered. Please. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Continuation of PCP protests.]] If Mr. President will allow me...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u274	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ricardo Leon has no way of speaking. Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the merit of the initiatives that have been presented here today, in addition to this important issue of moratoriums, what is true about the APOIAR Programme, is that many of them are already being implemented by the Government itself and there are others that deserve some reservations, and their possible adoption must be correlated with the results of the close follow-up to the evolution of the country's pandemic, social, economic and financial situation, but also with the fact that the Government is already evaluating the criteria for access to the different modalities of the APOIAR Programme. The PS Parliamentary Group is well aware of the importance of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in our economy, as well as the crucial importance of local trade in the collective life of our streets, our localities, freguesas and municipalities. That is why the APOIAR programme has already supported around 60 000 companies and, contrary to what has been said, 85 % are indeed micro-enterprises. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Aware of this importance, the Government has recently decided to amend the APOIAR Programme Regulation in order to increase, expand and strengthen support for more sectors of activity, particularly those already mentioned today as the ones most affected by confinement, such as tourism, event organisation and even restoration, thus reopening the application process and its period, and increasing its support limits. The increase in support limits for individual entrepreneurs without organised accounting for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises is a measure which applies retroactively to the applications already submitted and the adjustment of their values will be made automatically. Measures such as APOIAR + SIMPLES and APOIAR RENDAS are extended to entrepreneurs on an individual basis without organised accounting, regardless of whether or not they are employed. There is a line of credit for tourism, amounting to EUR 300 million, adding to the EUR 8 billion already allocated to companies, through the various lines of credit, with State guarantees, from the outset. And, contrary to what has been said here, it has been extended for nine months the periods of lack of credit lines with State guarantees. The Government is aware that this APOIAR programme has been assumed as a dynamic programme, which adapts and adapts to the needs of companies, always seeking greater scope in their support. For PS, without demagogy and populism, contrary to what the PSD here has done, if it is true that no one can stay behind, it is also no less true that no one can stay out of this effort than if it wants to be collective, for the sake of our economy and for the sake of our local trade. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u276	I draw the attention of the services to the timing of intervention and to avoid repeating the situation that has now occurred, because there was no counting during this last intervention and this disrupts the development of the work. You now have the floor to Mrs Cecilia Meireles for the closure.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Some projects that we have discussed here have to do with the APOIAR Programme and refer to the correction of many problems, but we have heard the Socialist Party say here: "Well, some of these problems have already been solved." Yeah, just outside they weren't! The problem is that if at the beginning of the pandemic you could see that things were not prepared, you don't realize how at this time of the championship, when, finally, nearly a year of the pandemic, such deep-lost support appears, still, are so badly achieved, so badly organized. That's what you can't figure out, but let's hope that some of these problems can be solved here. The different thing about this is to realize what has been the philosophy of response to the pandemic. A short time ago, I also heard Mr Ricardo Leon compare a greatly lost support of EUR 300 million with a credit line of EUR 8 billion. I don't know if you understand the huge difference in the size of your efforts. It is that, in fact, the bulk of the response is leveraged in lines of credit and in moratoriums and this means that the bulk of the Portuguese response to the pandemic was taken into account and left them forward. This didn't solve the problem! This simply allowed companies and families to continue to survive, saying 'then we will solve the problem'. On the proposal of the moratoriums, I would also like to say that what solves the problem of accounts is to find ways of companies and families to pay them, not simply add them. That doesn't solve any problems. However, taking this into account, it will not be for us that the project does not go to the specialty, to find solutions. However, I would like to draw attention to the following: we do not want a banking crisis on the basis of the family crisis. Therefore, this implies, firstly, a negotiation with Brussels, which, moreover, the CDS has repeatedly urged the Government to do, and also implies, secondly, real solutions and not only delays over delays. So we will do our best to get this project to go to the specialty, but we do not want to create here false expectations regarding the deadlines that expire today, because this decree will not enter into force tomorrow. It's important to have this clarity talking to people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u278	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have concluded this debate, so we will move on to the next point of our agenda, which is that of the general appraisal of Bills No. 681 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Determines the prohibition on the practice of shooting at the flight of captive birds for the sole purpose of serving as a target and the creation of a counter-ordering regime by amending Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September 703 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Prohibits the practice of shooting animals created in captivity and released to serve as target in hunting camps and shooting events ( ninth amendment to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August and fourth amendment to Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September ), 735 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — prohibits the use of live animals for the sport of shooting with a hunting weapon, and 737 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Amends the fourth Act No 92 / 95 of 12 September by restricting exclusively sporting practices that cause death to animals, together with the Draft Resolution No 583 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — The inclusion of priority protection for animals in the national civil protection plan. To present the NAP initiative, Mrs Inês Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There are still some anachronistic practices in Portugal which should have long been eradicated and which are based on acts of violence and extreme cruelty against animals, without any justification. Among these practices is the so-called « dove shot», which has long generated indignation and has been challenged by society and animal protection associations, in particular by the completely unjustified and barbaric form as animals are slaughtered in sports trials, for which there are viable alternatives, which have already been adopted by other countries, such as England, where the modality has its origin, but where it has been banned since 1921, that is, precisely one century ago. This modality also ceased to be part of international shooting competitions, including Olympic games, and when it was included in the 1900 Olympics, it was immediately banned by extreme cruelty to animals and by the challenge it generated, and replaced, and well by the use of artificial targets. In addition to the slaughter of birds, in this activity, pigeons are transported in dry and dark boxes, they are removed some tail feathers to provoke an irregular flight and are then released into shooting races, within the scope of evidence, to clear the skill of the shooters. In each of these tests hundreds of pigeons are released, depending on the number of shooters. Many animals are slaughtered at the moment, others fall wounded on the scene of the evidence and others can escape and eventually die following the injuries. In most cases, there is no immediate death of animals, which end up being subjected to cruel, atrocious and prolonged suffering. This scenario is absolutely incomprehensible in the light of current values because it governs our society and there is no valid argument justifying the perpetuation of this practice in our country. This is not, however, a new theme in this House. Indeed, the « fire on pigeons » has motivated numerous interventions in this Assembly of the Republic in defence of its definitive abolition, as was the case in 1995 by the voice of the Social Democrat Member Antonio Maria Pereira, author of the law we are debating today and we propose to amend, or in 1999 by the voice of the then Socialist Member Rosa Maria Albernz, who said that «the practice of shooting on pigeons is a barbarous atavism already banned throughout Europe, implicitly prohibited by Law No 92 / 95 », an interpretation which, moreover, meets the current opinion of several academics, such as the distinguished Professors Jorge Bacelar Gouvía, Carla Amado Gomes, Fernando Araújo, among many others. Unfortunately, in a completely unjustifiable way, pigeon-shooting promoters have been able in recent years to circumvent legislation, keep the organization of evidence as secret as possible, without disseminating the date and location where they are carried out. It is curious that they have also sought to hide the true cruelty of the modality by changing the designation of the clubs themselves, which have become known as « lead shooting clubs » instead of « pigeon shooting clubs ». This practice also adheres to the principles of Article 13. that of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which recognises animals as sensitive beings as well as the Civil Code itself, which has also recognized its own legal status and which, in Portugal, determines that « the animals are live beings endowed with sensitivity and object of legal protection by virtue of their nature. » However, we have allowed this activity in our country, contrary to the legislation and the spirit of the animal protection law. Today, there are other proposals that we will follow, certain that, in the field of expertise, it will be possible to harmonise the different concerns. However, we cannot continue to close our eyes to the suffering of animals and we can prevent that same suffering. The abolition of a sport that consists of slaughtering thousands of pigeons to shooting, for mere fun, is an inevitable civilizational advance in our country. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a step that should have been taken long ago and it is up to everyone and each one of us to give here today, thus contributing to the recovery of free violence and, on the other hand, to promote the empathy and respect that is due to animals, values that the NAP defends and will continue to defend. We hope that today, at least in this respect, this House will be with us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u280	To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The protection of animals has already been enshrined in the law that prohibits all unjustified violence against animals and, in this case, includes the acts in which death and suffering is caused to an animal without any need. This afternoon we are talking precisely about clarifying this law so that it is clear that creating animals in mass to be slaughtered violates these provisions. The practice of shooting at the flight, shooting at the pigeon or, still, shooting at the lead has been banned for decades, or even centuries, in several countries. in these shooting clubs or training fields, pigeons or other birds produced with the fist of being abused and shot down may not be used. But not in Portugal. Birds are raised in captivity, intensively, and transported in cages to the places of practice. Here are removed tail feathers to make your flight irregular, then thrown in front of the shooters to be shot with lead shells. If the shot is true they lose their lives instantly, but, as it is easy to imagine, many fall wounded outside the firing grounds, dying after hours of suffering. Every year thousands of birds die in target shooting practices. According to the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature et das Floresta), nearly 150 000 pigeons, 1 million peats, 130 000 bran rabbits and 123 000 partridges were hunted in 2017 / 2018. And we're just talking about the age of kinetics. At the departures outside the venatoria times in these same training camps, how many will it be? The General Basics of Hunting Act allows these to be carried out in hunting training camps where these animals are released to be hunted and shot on the very day. Among the species created, transported and marketed to be slaughtered in training fields, are still the hare, the bree rabbit, the red partridge, the duck-real, the pheasant and, once again, several species of pigeons. in these training events and practices, the animals serve only as a target for the exercise of the shooter and stimulation of the dog. For this purpose, other objects such as dishes, not ducks, or artificial mobile targets may be used once again. But no, that's still not the option. We must therefore change the law, avoiding the death and injury of thousands of animals and the mass and cruel production of animals to be shot and slaughtered by pure sport. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that a part of you are crying out demagogically that these bills are intended to end the hunt—we have discussed it here yesterday and in the last days and, indeed, so many other times. I take advantage of this presentation to tell you that it has been ending the hunt precisely the immobility of the sector and of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It is not understood that activities that want to be seen as sports, conservation and subsistence continue to insist that it is possible to condemn thousands of living beings to a life in captivity so that they are only released to be dead, without any other purpose; that tools that we all know are used only to kill wild birds, activity already banned and project already discussed and plummeted here; that alloctone animals are introduced that imbalance ecosystems only for once again are killed in exchange for thousands of euros. This is not conservation, it is not nature, nor is it the rural world, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about pure artifact! And farmers and hunters who make these activities the moment of contact with nature and refuse chacinas know - it. I therefore leave an invitation for the ladies and gentlemen. Members also see it in the eyes of those who do not hunt an activity to collect 7000 or 8000 €. The question is whether they will succeed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u282	To present the ENP initiative, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Concerns about animal welfare have been on the agenda for the intervention of the Greens for many years. There were several legislative initiatives presented by the Greens in this House in order to monitor the evolution of social concerns in this area. Among the proposals presented are the elimination of the use of animals for scientific purposes; the fight against widespread slaughter of animals, requiring a new paradigm of control of the animal population; the demand for the end of public financing to the peats; the improvement or limitation of the conditions of long-term transport of live animals. In fact, the responsibility that, as humans, is imputed to us in the sense of valuing biodiversity calls on us to extend the horizon of our concerns to species that are not threatened with extinction in our day and to refuse, without any reservations, the theory or idea lapses and today, deprived of any sense, that anything that may be moved can be hunted or even used for sports practices. Despite the legislative developments in recent years in animal protection in Portugal, anachronistic sports practices that have been widely contested from the point of view of animal welfare still persist. The bill we bring to the discussion today aims to continue the path of these advances, prohibiting the use of live animals for the sport practice of shooting with a hunting weapon. The practice referred to as ‘pulmonary shooting’ may be replaced by other practices that have been developed and it is now possible to use alternatives to the use of live animals in this type of sport mode. In fact, we continue to see these practices, even though we can read on the official page of the Olympic Committee of Portugal the following: "There is already the time when the shooting with hunting weapons made victims and the most innocent pigeons, who were replaced by ceramic dishes. A plate launcher defers these properly identified flying objects at a speed of 180 km/h, challenging the expertise of shooters placed at a distance of 70 m or 20 m. » We are facing a set of practices that must stop. It doesn't make sense that in today's day there's sporting evidence of shooting with a hunting weapon with live animals. The promotion of individual well-being and health associated with sports practices is not compatible with the development of practices that call into question animal welfare. Therefore, this legislative initiative prohibits the use of live animals for the practice of sport shooting with a hunting weapon, commonly referred to as ‘flight shooting’ or ‘pulmonary shooting’, even if these animals have been created for that purpose, even if in their domestic form, or even other birds. We want the legislative body to be given to the current requirements of Portuguese society in these matters of promoting animal welfare and in promoting a change of attitude that we have before the other animals and living beings, in general. It is important to continue to pursue a path of balance and preservation of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u284	To present the initiative of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Arrival presents a project that aims to combat the radical animalism of some and to ensure that there is still room, as in most European legislation, for animal welfare and for its safeguarding. The project presented here integrates well-being and animal protection into the national civil protection plan—along with what is happening in other European Union states. In any case, we must say the following: some of the projects that are presented today in this House, with legitimate reasons and sincere concerns, also represent a threat to a fundamental sector, which is hunting. We can have on hunting the most diverse opinions—I have my own—but we cannot question a sector that has been so important within the country, which has generated so many jobs, which has often generated millions of them in investment, mobility and the development of abandoned areas. This is therefore a realistic project because it touches on a point that we can legally ensure: animal protection and welfare within a reasonable, realistic, well-supported and best practices within the European Union. What we cannot do is use political revenge and animal fundamentalism to destroy a sector that has been so important to the interior of the country and that, like many of you. Members who are here know, it has been essential that, in their districts, there is still some employment, some investment and some mobility, even if seasonal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u286	To present your initiative, you have the floor of Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislator has taken an important path in strengthening measures to protect pets. From the adoption of the animal protection law to the law that criminalizes its animal abuse, to the law that criminalizes its abuse, to the change of legal status, but the path is still long. In our country, there are still certain sports practices, such as shooting at the flight, which consists of the release of birds with the sole objective of serving as targets. What we are advocating is that there should be a weighting of the goods in question. A sport that involves the free use of a living being does not survive the test of the need to read in the light of respect for the values of the environment and the simplicity of the animals. It is not acceptable for the Portuguese legal system, which recognizes animals, which distinguishes them from things, which provides specific protection standards for them, which criminalizes abuse against animals and recognizes the pain associated with their loss, to allow animals to be used for sports practices that involve their death. Sports, although traditional, should be reviewed in accordance with the dominant social conceptions and for this reason, for example, there are no longer any dog fights. According to the words of Carla Amado Gomes, « traditions form, they are lost, they recover, they ban themselves as cultural/temporary phenomena that are».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u288	Presented with the initiatives, I now give the floor to Mr Pedro do Carmo of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bills submitted, in particular Bill No. 703 / XIV / 2. a, BE, aim at a clear and frontal attack on the rural world, guided by a arrogant and lofty spirit : « we know », « we are right », « that is how it should be and ready ». With this attitude, it aims to impose on the rural world a set of practices and rules on men and women in the field, on nature and on the caregivers of the environment. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing more wrong! They need to have more humility and respect for those who live in the rural world, for those who truly respect ecosystems, for those who daily struggle to stop the depopulation of the interior territories. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u290	You know what? The men and women of the rural world respect you very much! Humbly and intelligently, they are always available to listen to you, but please stop treating these people, hunters or not, as inhabitants of a theme park that VV. Ex. they idealized and where they want to dictate the rules. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The reality is quite different. Hunting recreates and repopulates habitats, it is a necessary activity to territories with value, which keeps ecosystems balanced and promotes biodiversity. Hunting and hunters have made and are part of the rural world, are an important part of the memory and the present, of the local development strategy and of many rural territories. They want, from Lisbon, to decree laws without this connection to the reality of the rural world, not doing the essential and devoting energy to the accessory. Introducing bills that want to limit or prevent this activity is a mistake, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. It's a mistake! If Bill No. 703 / XIV / 2. the, presented by BE, was approved by this House, would call into question the continuity, for example, of the art of falcoaria, which is neither more nor less a practice classified by UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ), an art that has an extraordinary history in Portugal, a genuine, authentic, true and, most importantly, tradition of ecological neutrality. I would end with the following : VV. Ex., totally unaware of reality, they consider and place all the acts that have to do with the release of animals as target-shooting animals. But it's not like that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what's essential! Ventatory acts have and should be an exception because they are fundamental to the continuity of ecological balance and, therefore, of hunting. The creation of captive birds and their release have an enormous environmental function, because when birds are released into the natural environment, the settlement is promoted, the effective and the predators' livelihood is increased. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS listens and talks with the industry's representative associations and we know that they are available to discuss, plan and reform in order to modernize the sector. This is the way: to participate, with these entities, in the National Hunting Council which is scheduled for shortly. We thus have a huge responsibility, because it is our responsibility to make laws balanced and sensible, not imposing ideological concepts and radicalisms. This is the way I stand for, the path of progress and respect. Only with respect and balance can we have a more inclusive and stronger Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u291	Mrs Emília Cerqueira from the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again we have a number of initiatives that under the cover of animal welfare cause us to discuss the rural world. It is increasingly the dictatorship of taste — « me and the others», « I am sure, nor that it belongs to a minority among the minorities» — and it must impose the will on all others. We have these four more proposals and we are already a little tired of discussing these proposals constantly, constantly, constantly, in a continuous repetition to impose that which is not the will of the country. in the same way, there is no national cry, unless it is that cry that Mrs Inês de Sousa Real came to talk about the pigeon accident, which, by chance, were not for any venatoria activity or for any shooting, but rather for a competition. She agreed that she had read the communiqué of the National Federation of Columbophilia and, perhaps, it would not be wrong to hear what is the activity of falcoria, as has already been mentioned here, classified by UNESCO. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u293	But there is another issue on which we need to focus. Under the cover of animal welfare, try to change the law and make a parallel between venatoria activity and pets, mixing everything as if it were all the same and, ultimately, to end a whole fundamental activity in the rural world. Yes, that rural world they don't like, they don't listen and they don't want to know, because they don't receive them and they don't hear the opinion of who, in fact, is there and knows the reality. Then we talk about biodiversity, territorial cohesion, animal protection, but these are not just big, completely torn bricks from what is our territory and what is our country. Politics must serve the country and territory! But today we are again discussing these matters and, on the map, we are going to propose here, it is changing there and there, almost by order. [[Protests by PEV MP Mariana Silva.]] Today, at the time of the CAP (common agricultural policy), we should be discussing public policies for the territory, for agriculture, for forests, for biodiversity, to make territorial cohesion in the territories. With the real life of people, with the lack of income, with the working conditions, with the production, with the food of Portuguese is that they should be worried! It was about these issues that we should be gathering to discuss, and these should be the reason for parliamentary initiatives. This is what concerns the Portuguese, not an agenda that tries to impose itself on a country that does not exist, as if that is the real country. Listen to what the rural world says! It is people, they are people there, they have their territories to manage and, more importantly, they are, above all, the great conservation agents of the environment and biodiversity. Without us there is no rural world, no economy there are no people. Decide what you want! They want to end the rural world and do what they think, through movies and books and any video on YouTube! Is that what you're talking about? [[Protests by PEV MP Mariana Silva.]] It seems that it is through Google, through any iPad, any phone or laptop, who know the rural world, instead of going there and seeing people's feelings. That's what's at stake. Moreover, saying that people and agents in the rural world do not take animal welfare into account is an insult without size for everyone living in our territory and for people who care about the cinematic activity. Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, I am not a hunter—see my manifestation of interest! — I have no interest or gain thousands of euros, but there is something I do, which is to defend our people, our territories, the ways of life in our territories. Believe that whenever you try to destroy Portugal, our country and the true territorial cohesion, you will always have-CL in an uninterested, serious way and according to science to defend our people, because that is why I am here. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] Madam Member, while I feel that I am defending our people, I do not need money or interests, as you have suggested, but I do need to be serious. They should start, once and for all, thinking about what the country needs and do not have to constantly transform, day after day, week after week, session after session, anything that goes wrong in an attack on the lifestyles of our territory. Portugal and the Portuguese deserve much more and the rural world, for which we respect the PSD and I deserve much more. We believe that these constant and systematic debates are another proof of the disrespect they have for our territories and for our people. It's to defend them that we're here today, tomorrow and always. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u294	Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I will make a previous point on the fact that it is not the first time we have discussed projects of this nature and similar. I would like to make it clear that, contrary to what I have heard today, we are in fact discussing projects that ultimately have the prohibition of hunting. That is why this debate has started by saying 'again again' because, once again, the same way we have discussed this matter, we have already discussed the prohibition of hunting various species. There is a problem of some Members and of some parliamentary groups with the hunting activity and there, the last end is to ban this activity which they consider cruel or excessively cruel. I, respecting that view, disagree with her. A challenge was made by Mrs Maria Manuel Rola in which we were asked to look at things with different eyes. Mrs. Member, I don't hunt, I never took a gun in my life and never lived inside. So I am actually looking at things with different eyes and, above all, I am listening to those who have asked people who are hunting and living in territories where they are hunting. But, Mrs Deputies, I am not actually going around the world to issue judgments of value on everything and on all, and I do not think that my taste and lifestyle must be a rule to impose on others, prohibiting all other tastes and all other ways of life. I actually look at things with the eyes of others and hear who thinks differently from me. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, in this matter you have no lesson to give because, when presenting these projects, it shows well that you do not know how to do so and have no humility to do so. Secondly, I would also like to say that these projects have a different content than their title. The title speaks of « dove shot» or « flight shot», but, in reality, these projects, when approved, prohibit all releases of kinetic species created in captivity, that is, they go far beyond the shooting to the dove. Thirdly, although I understand that you are. Members question it, they themselves say they question the practice of falcory, making it impossible and forbidden. They are the very ones who say it, it is not a statement that we invented. Then there are various inaccuracies and prejudices to which you would like to draw your attention. It is not true that most of these birds are created intensively in captivity and much less it is true that it is common for dogs to end up dead or wounded in these hunting and sports practices. Pure and simply, that is not true! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you have every right to think that this practice is cruel, but I think you have no right to ban and, of course, you have no right to simply invent facts to make your history—let us say so—more appealing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u296	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u297	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating four initiatives whose object affects the practice of shooting at the flight, which is commonly called dove shooting. We perceive and value concern for animal welfare. First of all, I would like to say that, within the framework of animal welfare, considerable progress has been made. In several areas, the CFP has contributed to animal welfare in terms of appreciation which should be considered for what the conditions under which animals are treated are created. However, even if we cannot and should not run away from the debate - we should indeed do so - it seems to us that it is not the right time or the situation, in current terms, to do so. This is because we understand that we need to consider better, even listening to the entities, the structures, the associations, so that we can have a more detailed, more detailed knowledge that allows us to have a stance to defend the animal welfare that is done with and not against the populations. As has already been said, and we agree, we are talking about a sports practice where hunting weapons are used and therefore it is important to consider the impact that this has on hunting as well and, having in hunting, has in the rural world and within. Therefore, it is important to consider the dynamics and also to consider the traditions associated with this sport practice that resort to the use of hunting weapons. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to alert you to the following fact: in 2019, the World Championship of Flying Shooting took place in Portugal, a sport practice which welcomed about 500 practitioners from the most diverse parts of the world and which had a significant impact and dimension on the municipalities where it happened and in the neighbouring municipalities. in this sense, we cannot devalue that, in fact, these sports practices end up being associated also with the ancestral activity of hunting and has implications in the dynamics of the rural world. We understand that we cannot regret the abandonment of the interior, we cannot regret the burned areas,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u299	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u300	... we cannot regret the declining situation of the rural world and then disregard what activities are that contradict the cycle of abandonment and depopulation. It is in this sense that we look at activities such as the practice of shooting at the flight as respectable activities and that make a useful contribution for the country to be preserved. I think it is important to end my speech with the main message that we must defend animal welfare with populations and not against populations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u301	You're talking right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u302	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, from the Left Block, intends to exhaust the 29 seconds available to intervene, so you have the floor from now on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Thank you and I would like to put on the table the lack of reasonableness and notion that we all have when we are discussing these issues in the Assembly of the Republic. This is because using lies about the projects under discussion is not reasonable when we are talking about the will to conserve animals, to preserve nature. Indeed, tired of the lack of knowledge and tearing the territory, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, I am sorry to tell you, it is us. Mr. President ( Fernando Negrão ). — Would you like to finish, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u304	I will finish, Mr. President. This is because those who ended up dismantling the country, with a total depopulation, with a closure of services, were not sure, the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Finally, I would like to say that the honourable Member, in fact, has difficulty in understanding, and Mr Pedro do Carmo also,... Mr. President ( Fernando Negrão ). — Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u305	... that we only want to limit the issue of the production of hunting animals. It's not about hunting itself, it's about producing animals. Mr. President ( Fernando Negrão ). — Madam Member, you may finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u306	Hunting is millennia and does not produce animals to hunt—it would simply hunt! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u307	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u308	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u309	Mr. President, the PS has given me time, which is already on the screen.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u310	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u311	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, this is not a debate about hunting or personal tastes, it is a debate about animal welfare and the uses we still agree to give to animals today. Mr Emília Cerqueira, this is a subject that will certainly come to the plenary again. In fact, it will come as necessary until this civilizational step is taken. The PSD, while one of the proponents of the approval of the animal abuse law, should be consistent and approve the initiatives under discussion here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u312	To close the debate, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not distorting the facts that we are right, nor is it repeatedly invoking the rural world that we are going to solve the problems of the country every time we talk about anachronistic activities. Today, the Assembly of the Republic has the opportunity to correct a civilizational delay. We are not even talking about kinetic activities, — we could be because the NAP would not have any problem talking about this issue — we are talking about a sporting activity consisting of championships where pigeons are not only created in captivity as they are then released for unique and exclusively sporting purposes that have nothing to do with preserving biodiversity or controlling species, although, as we well know, much separate us from that. We cannot continue to have an absolutely distorted and mechanistic view of animals, a Cartesian vision that allows us to treat them to our beautiful pleasure as if they were mere things, destroying them, and destroying them - when it is perfectly possible - and other countries have already done so until more than a century ago - replacing animals, living beings endowed with sensitivity, with inanimate dishes, of course continuing to train skill or pointer. What we cannot effectively train, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is ethics, it is morals that must also guide us here in the Assembly of the Republic. We have, in fact, a duty to the other animals, to those creatures that also persist on our planet and that do not have to be subject to this kind of activity. Now, as legislators, we cannot ignore that, today, it is already a given civilizational duty that we have towards animals, not available to them as we well understand, and in the case of shooting pigeons it is perfectly possible and morally required to reconcile these two interests here in comparison without this inflicting suffering on animals. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, to conclude, the PSD so often boasts of being the father of animal protection legislation but, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, Antonio Maria Pereira, today, will feel-CL will be very disappointed by her words, as well as Mrs Maria Rosa Albernaz will certainly not be recognized in the words of the Socialist Party bench. We're talking about a sports activity and nothing more than that. To conclude, I borrow the words of the illustrious Professor Menezes Lamb in which he calls us, in fact, to the ethical and humanist fund...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u314	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u315	I really am concluding, Mr President. As I said, the words of the illustrious Professor Menezes Lamb call us to the ethical and humanist background that extends to all forms of life, not only to humans, even saying that the wisdom that we must know to avoid suffering gives us the responsibility to do so. The ladies and gentlemen. Members who actually choose which side they want to be, if on the right side of the history and the protection of animals...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u316	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies, you can finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u317	...or if, once again, they will, stubbornly, insist on and persist in the mistake of not correcting something that is in our hands.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u318	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the joint appraisal of Bill No. 677 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Decreases the maximum number of students allowed by class, in general, of Resolution Projects Nos 966 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of non-invasive testing methods for children and young people in return to face-to-face education and 968 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — On the review of national examinations, taking into account the inequalities revealed by distance education, from Petition No 126 / XIV / 1. a ( Ana Rita Lagoas Dias et al.) — Reduction of the number of students per class from 2020 / 2021, of Law Projects No 695 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Set a maximum number of students per class, 738 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Student support measures in the context of school social action, 739 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Establishs measures to reduce the number of students per class, aiming to improve the teaching-learning process, 740 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — establishes measures for the elimination of examinations by establishing a transitional scheme for completion of secondary education and access to higher education in school year 2020 / 2021, in general, and of Resolution Projects Nos 420 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government maintain the national final examinations for the approval of disciplines and completion of secondary education and that it use spaces under the height of the authorities to carry out the relevant teaching tests, 1108 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Effective prevention and combat of early school dropout and 1109 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Under the law of students carry out national examinations to improve internal classification. For the presentation of your ENP initiatives, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Distance teaching, taken as a measure of prevention and containment of the CVID-19 pandemic, has contributed to revealing inequalities between students, such as access to the Internet and computer material, with profound implications for learning processes. These inequalities are not surprising and it is regrettable that the government has not, in its own time, solved many of these situations. For example, computer equipment came late, in clearly insufficient quantity and even with manufacturing failures. There are therefore many students who still lack the means to be able to participate appropriately in distance classes. The situation is so loud that even a large company takes advantage of the fact that it is engaged in an advertising campaign. COVID-19 has forced the government to find some immediate answers to some of the problems of education, but, as in previous situations, most of them have left out. The initiatives we bring to the discussion today are recommendations to the Government to make the necessary changes so that the remaining months of school, hopefully present, of another short school year, run within the normality that is essential so that students no longer be harmed in their acquisition of knowledge, in their development, in their socialization. The diagnosis made by the IAVE (Instituto de Evaluación Educação Educação ) says that more than half of the students did not reach the basic skills — this is only with regard to the first confinement. In view of such different realities in promoting learning, the Greens believe it would not be fair for the government to insist on maintaining the 9th exams. the year, penalizing students who had the most difficulties, accentuating discrimination processes, as with regard to secondary school exams, we believe that they should count only for access to higher education. These changes have already been implemented by the Ministry of Education, but there is a need to make a real assessment of the relevance of using exams that only serve to assess the student at a single time when his school course is extensive and with many moments when they can be evaluated. COVID-19 imposes health security measures on us, including physical distance which is not possible in many classes, taking into account the high number of students. It is necessary to reduce the maximum number of students per class, either for reasons of better learning conditions and to promote recovery plans, or to ensure the safe return to face-to-face education. Obviously, this measure requires an adaptation of educational establishments and groups of schools, as well as the hiring of more teachers to ensure these developments, but it must be understood once and for all that these consequences do not represent costs and expenses but, rather, a positive investment, with a return to the quality and strengthening of learning and to the security of the entire school population and society in general. Finally, in order to comply with the test plan in schools, so that we do not take any further steps back, The Greens recommend that saliva tests be used to detect infection by the VOCID-19 virus, some already developed by teams of Portuguese researchers, who represent a less invasive test method and, according to the information available, will represent greater speed, sensitivity and ease of harvesting in children and young people at a reduced cost. The option of closing schools only on the basis of epidemiological criteria is very risky. We don't want to die of evil, but so little do we want to die of healing. It is therefore essential that plans be created and investments be made for young people to socialize, share affections and live with each other.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u320	For an intervention, Mrs Alexandra Vieira of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u321	Mr. President, I greet all of you. Members present and I also greet the 36 000 petitioners for reducing the number of students per class they propose. A pandemic and two confinements became atypical two school years for which exceptional measures such as non-presental teaching or phased opening of schools were required. The commitment of educational communities to respond to adversity has been significant. Still, the limitations of non-presental education are several and aggravate technical, socio-economic and cultural inequalities. The weaknesses of the educational system that are dragged, without structural solutions, are visible. There are missing equipment, teachers, operational assistants and physical conditions. Curriculum drawing is anachronistic. Professional education is dual. The inclusion is far from having the necessary scope. From reform to reform, education has become a gigantic blanket of cuts in which changes are justified, without revocation, by increasing bureaucratic chaos and obsession with control. The resumming of the word "autonomy" reveals how a rich concept can be emptied of meaning. The size of the number of students per class should be within the scope of this autonomy proclaimed and never achieved. It is the fundamental adjustment to the diversity with which the public school has to deal with and the guarantee of equality. There is a proportionally inverse relationship between the size of the classes and the success of the learnings. The lower the number of students, the greater the success of learning. However, some directors deny this evidence. The teachers, teachers and structures that represent them are never heard, so the Left Block defends the return of democratic management to schools. After 25 April 1974, with the improvement of living conditions, more children and young people were able to attend school, which of 600 students became 3000, in classes from 30 to 35 students. Mass school was given to school-deposit, as is the case with full-time school for parents and mothers who work longer hours. The pandemic made the results of the dispensation of thousands of teachers visible and the civilizational backwardness that was the closure of schools that are now necessary. Many children and young people were affected in their learning and in their social and psychological well-being. Therefore, the Left Block resumes its proposal to reduce the number of students by class for pedagogical reasons. Students and students need to find the best conditions at school to recover from at least two atypical school years. The reduction in the number of students per class of necessity has become urgent. The economic narrative that says that small classes represent more costs must be disassembled. How much do support classes and tutorials cost? What about the other measures, such as successful promotion plans or the fight against school dropout? Not to mention the costs of the various forms of inclusion that have repercussions for the rest of adult life. All these problems have a beginning and an end: the giant classes, which do not allow a teaching of proximity. On the national evidence of 9. the year, there is too much evidence about its usefulness. The exams of 11. o and 12. the years, as mode of entry into higher education needs to be reviewed, because it goes back to mass school and the need to create number clauses. For decades this entry has remained virtually unchanged, with the national exams being used to verify what teachers teach and to measure rankings. It is also necessary to start this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u322	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u323	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP brings the debate a set of essential proposals to respond to the demands posed by the COVID-19 epidemic in the protection of the health of workers and students, in strengthening support for students and in implementing exceptional measures that avoid the penalty of students and that ensure the successful continuation of their school course. We propose the reduction of the number of students per class in order to ensure the pedagogical conditions that allow the proper follow-up of the specific learning process of each of the students, on the one hand, and on the other, as a measure to protect public health and combat the epidemic, by ensuring physical distance. In view of the cuts in wages, the increase in unemployment and the loss of income of families, we propose the strengthening of school social action to ensure equality in the conditions of access, frequency and success of all students. Ensuring the school course of all students successfully and avoiding school dropout should be a priority. The burden of spending on education in the family budget is high and the current situation has only aggravated this reality. We therefore propose extending the free distribution of milk and fruit to all students of compulsory education, repositioning in step A of the students of support steps B and C, in cases where one of the parents is in situations of involuntary unemployment or reduction of time. We also propose the extension of social support, passing the step To correspond to steps 1 and 2 of the family allowance, step B to correspond to step 3 of the family allowance and step C to step 4 of the family allowance, as well as the participation to 100% in food and study visits at all levels of the school social action. To prevent students from being penalized in their school course due to the impact of the epidemic in two consecutive years, when it is already proven that there are indeed learning breaks, the CFP proposes that 12 tests be allowed. the year for improvement of note, for all those who wish to do so, as we propose the definitive elimination of the 9 exams. year. The current context of the epidemic has made it more evident that the system of evaluation and access to higher education is unfair, which requires a profound change. This may be the opportunity to find a just solution for entry into higher education, for effective implementation and enhancement of the continuous evaluation, thus allowing the elimination of national examinations of the 12. the year that constitutes an obstacle to the continuation of studies and does not allow an adequate evaluation of the learnings acquired by students. It is proven that the so-called distance teaching is not a solution. It is responsible for deepening inequalities and does not guarantee the learning conditions and adequate monitoring of students. The most appropriate pedagogical solution is face-to-face teaching. It is the classroom that allows an effective relationship between teacher and student. We therefore believe that it is essential that measures be taken to ensure the functioning of schools, in conditions of safety and health protection. There is no need for rhetoric, but, yes, more investment in the hiring of missing workers — assistants in educational action, teachers, specialist technicians — in the requalification of the school park and in the reduction of the number of students per class. These are proposals that the CFP has long defended and that, if they had been implemented, we would be in much better condition to deal with the epidemic. It is still time to take these measures and strengthen the public school response in support of students and families, the right to education and knowledge on an equal footing. There must be political will to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u324	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u325	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Decree-Law No 14 - G / 2020 it was established that national final examinations, when carried out by internal students, for the purpose of the approval of disciplines and completion of secondary education, should be carried out preferably in a non-presentative manner. In the same document, paragraph 1, it is read that, for the purposes of evaluation, approval of disciplines and completion of secondary education, including disciplines in which national final examinations are carried out, it is only considered internal evaluation, adding that students perform national final examinations only in the disciplines they choose as input tests for the purposes of access to higher education, being allowed to perform these examinations for improvement of grade. This is, and it was, from the beginning, a bad choice. The government was alerted to the bad choice it brought here not only by the impact on the level of students and the functioning of schools, but also in the development of the student personality itself. We had in April 2020 the conditions for creating spaces and the organisation to be able to have blocks to carry out these tests and we will not be limiting students to face-to-face national examinations. For example, what was done in terms of authentic pavilions that could be used for this purpose? Absolutely nothing! The same diploma states that, to be carried out, the distribution of the materials necessary and known for combating the pandemic should be guaranteed. How far we're still at it! This project aims only and solely for the Government to fulfill what it promised in 2020, i.e. that these examinations, tendingly, can be carried out in a face-to-face manner, that we have structures and infrastructures, in particular of a hierarchical nature, capable of doing so - the Government has not yet done so, since in just 5 % of the municipalities there are these conditions - and that indeed we have conditions, in terms of equipment, to carry out these national examinations, which should not be an obstacle, but a right to improve our teaching system, in the free development of the personality of our students.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u326	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u327	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has decided to maintain the rules on access to higher education which it defined last year, already in the context of pandemics. The maintenance of this scheme prevents Portuguese students from conducting national examinations for the purpose of improving internal classification. This may have a very negative impact on their conditions of access to higher education. Do not allow national examinations to improve the rating disregard the efforts made throughout the year by students, teachers and teachers, and students see their legitimate expectations frustrated by the government, in some cases for the second consecutive year. The National Higher Education Access Commission itself recommended on 15 February that the examinations may also be used for the purpose of improving internal classification. The situation is even more incomprehensible given that the number of improvement examinations is perfectly manageable with regard to the social distance which the health authorities recommend in carrying out national examinations. There is, in general, a wide availability of space for examinations, either in the usual educational spaces, or in other facilities, such as the pavilions of the schools themselves. Therefore, the Liberal Initiative is here, once again, in defending the rights of students, proposing that it be possible to carry out these national examinations to improve the internal classification of all students who so claim. We hope that the other parties will put the interests of the students first and accompany us in this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u328	Having presented the legislative initiatives under discussion, I now give the floor to an intervention by Mr Porfirio Silva of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u329	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the set of important educational proposals we have for discussion, perhaps I will not say anything about them all, but I would like to mention three important points. First of all, I wanted to start by referring to the proposal from the CFP on support for students in the context of social action at school. Social action at school has been a robust response to the consequences of the pandemic. Schools have continued to be centres of response to social challenges caused by the situation we have lived for about a year, where necessary, with extended criteria. It is true that the proposal contains some elements that would need clarification, such as participation for study visits at a time when there are no study visits. In any case, we recognize that social support for students is a relevant matter, which we need to constantly monitor, which the Government has done, by strengthening the social action at school, its mission and the means at its disposal. For example, in addition to what my colleague, Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins has already mentioned today, it must be remembered that the program of free school textbooks, a very strong public investment in education, has relieved families from what, for many, was the heavier part of their children's education burden. However, I would like to be very clear at a point of view from a legislative point of view on the proposal from the CFP: it is clearly an anticipation of the next State budget, insofar as it intends to produce effects with the entry into force of the subsequent State budget, as it is said. And that has an advantage, which is to show that there is someone who understands that the Constitution is to respect, in particular as regards labour law, and that decisions with budgetary impact are to be taken at the right time. However, the last point of the proposal leaves us perplexed, since it seems that the government will try to enforce the law before the deadline in which the law itself establishes that it will be applied and will produce effects. It would therefore be a half-gas law, a lusco-foscian law, a law in a tempting way: it is not producing effects, but it is up to the government to make effect. It seems that this approach should be served, at best by a recommendation and not by a law, even avoiding the legal uncertainty about people in the field who are doing a job where there is already enough uncertainty caused by the pandemic. There are also several proposals on examinations, where we traditionally find in the political spectrum a very variable range of positions, from those who defend exams such as alpha and omega of education, to those who reject any form of external evaluation. For us, both internal evaluation and external evaluation have their role and should be balanced at the service of learning. We therefore support the balanced position defined by the Government: further this year of pandemic is suspended the performance of the measurement tests and the evidence of 9. the year and only the national exams that function as proof of access to higher education are performed. It is therefore necessary to reconcile various values. First of all, for public health reasons, it is necessary to limit the number of evidence to be carried out at present and this must be defined in advance, because the pandemic has already shown that we cannot be sure of what will happen from here to a few months. We need to make sensible decisions, which will enable people to take care and plan. Secondly, it is prudent not to make profound and definitive changes in the educational system in the middle of a pandemic, as it seems to us that we should not experience the lives of people, which we would be doing by varying the rules from year to year in the course of the same pandemic. Thirdly, we can't kill the students' lives just in the course of the exams. We know today, not only by direct observation, but also by the studies that have been carried out, in particular, the diagnosis promoted by the Ministry of Education since last year, which was presented publicly for the first time this week, that there are significant losses caused by this current situation in the development of students. But it's not just school losses in the strict sense. They are emotional losses, relational losses, socialization losses, loss at the level of social and family integration balances. in this situation, it would be absolutely inappropriate to eliminate the educational response in exams, disregarding other essential dimensions. therefore the option to suspend the main external evidence, only maintaining the proofs of access to higher education and its results only counting to that end. The secondary is completed with internal evaluations. However, any deviation from this model would be discriminatory against some students, unless all secondary terminal exams are carried out, as in the normal year, which clearly is not the case in times of pandemic. In fact, the past year showed that this solution was balanced and that, in fact, it did not interfere with access to higher education, despite the understandable fears some expressed at that time, but there were fears that did not happen. Finally, on the reduction of the number of students per class, it should be recalled that, since the previous legislation, the commitment that the PS Government has taken and has honoured with punctuality is under way.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u330	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u331	I will finish, Mr. President. This reduction, which will represent, in 2021 / 2022, an investment in the order of EUR 83 million — is more or less 3000 teaching hours — is being implemented progressively and incrementally. This is how we think it must be done, as we have predicted from the outset and how we have adopted here: a progressive and incremental reduction programme. When we finish it, we'll evaluate it and see if there's a need to do more.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u332	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u333	Only one last sentence is missing, Mr President. But we cannot fall into the temptation to think that it is possible, from a physical point of view, to solve the problems of distance during the pandemic with a universal reduction in the number of students per class, in addition to what is already being done. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u334	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u335	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss a petition and 10 legislative initiatives at the same point of order, since the reduction of the number of students per class, which comes to the petition's ticket, in Green projects, the PCP and the Block, to the elimination of examinations, in Green projects and the PCP, but also to the contrary, that is, the maintenance of examinations and improvements, as is the case with the projects of the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative. There are also initiatives on social action at school — this is the case with the PCP's diploma —, the non-invasive testing policy — the Greens' diploma — and the fight against early dropout — the Liberal Initiative's diploma. It's impossible, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, have a focused discussion. I cannot fail to note at this time that this ongoing process of project tracings — it has already happened at other times — because we have few plenarys, because it is the only way we can discuss, have or do not have to do with the theme that originated the initial agenda, can be a very pragmatic option from the point of view of the management of political positions, but does not fulfil the good purpose from the point of view of the institution and does not allow a structured discussion, which is what we should be doing. Take this note, which is more a waste, it is no more than that, so let's go to the various themes. The first theme is the reduction in the number of students per class. The projects are the usual : the PCP, the PEV and the Block, which ignore everything we have discussed in the past legislature, the working group led by Mr Porfirio Silva... We heard everyone, Mrs Alexandra Vieira. I know I wasn't here, but very few people in this country were heard on this subject, and you ignore that. They ignored the situation of the reality of the Portuguese system and again proposed the same solutions, of unique size, for all schools, regardless of the will of schools, the strategies of schools or the results of schools. So we too are forced to maintain our position. We are not against the existence of smaller classes, we are not against classes that can be divided. We are in favour of each director, in the exercise of his autonomy, decide to organize the classes and curricular and pedagogical processes in his school as to understand. this time they did not bring this into discussion, but it is also a classic. It is that when the classes are very reduced, there are teachers who, instead of having a class, have twenty. If I remember, that was an old problem. In addition, I would like to say that using COVID-19 as an argument is highly demagogic, because you know that from now on to July, we are certainly not going to increase the buildings to make the rooms fit there. Then there would be the problem, then, of the parent's schedules and complaints and everything else. Honestly, we're not gonna give that petition. On the exams, this year, and most of the reason, the exams of the 9. the year—and I fully disagree with what has been said, as I have said at other times — would be even more necessary. The problem is, as we look at the exams as a tool of selectivity, we're never going to have a point of agreement again. The exams were important precisely because, in a year when we don't know how the learnings went, they were a way to measure how the system is, for the benefit of the students. Not knowing doesn't help anyone. Finally, we disagree with all the projects that, at the once again, of the COVID-19, alter the rules of access to higher education, as changed last year, creating discontinuity. It's three-year cycles. The middle of a three-year cycle creates discontinuities.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u336	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u337	I will finish, Mr. President. We therefore disagree with all the projects, so obviously we will not follow them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u338	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u339	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would like to welcome the subscribers of the petition on the reduction of the number of students per class. We would also like to recall the statements made by the Minister of Education at the last meeting on UNESCO Global Education, which stated that innovative policies had to be created and to address the teaching-learning process in another way. We need actions to follow those words. The NAP's position on educational policies is clear: to find solutions to recover lost time and learning, but in an efficient way, not with repetition of methodologies and assumptions that do not work, such as the increase in educational times, the time overload, the excess content, the high number of students per class, the lack of teachers or the bureaucracy with which these professionals are overloaded. It's impossible, ladies and gentlemen. Members, follow each student in a class with 28 or 29 students in a close and personalized manner. The pedagogical differentiation is clearly compromised and it becomes very difficult to fight failure and drop out of school, with inclusion at risk. So, what explains the government's insistence on maintaining classes with a large number of students? Well, we would also like to get that answer. It is not acceptable for the Government to continue to hypothesize the future of children and of the country itself, repeatedly opting for harsh, remedial measures rather than implementing structural changes for the present and the future. How? Reducing the classes, implementing hourly unfoldments, ensuring a decent allocation of human resources, valuing these professionals and advancing with a curricular review in essential contents. The Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have asked the self-sacrifice educational communities. It is time, now, to respond with more and better investments in education. Therefore, it is also necessary to ensure the right of students to carry out tests to improve the classification, with the NAP scheduled a discussion on the same subject. Again, they were left out, repeating mistakes last year. The NAP cannot agree with this injustice, so it accompanies the concerns of students, families and teachers regarding the right to improve their internal classification, after an investment made since the beginning of secondary education.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u340	Mr António Cunha, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also begin by congratulating the petitioners. With regard to the legislative initiatives under discussion on the reduction of the number of students per class, this would have an immediate involvement in the increase in the recruitment costs of more teachers and more operational assistants. I wonder how much it would cost the State Budget to reduce the number of students per class that these projects propose! How many million euros? More: with the proposed increase in classes in these projects, between 19 % and 30 %, I also question where there would be rooms or schools for more classes. Paradoxically, the country would have to build more schools in times of population contraction marked. Despite the propaganda of the austerity page, the money does not, unfortunately, reach everything: see the estimate of 34, 8 % tax burden by 2020 ; see the request for successive supervision to the Constitutional Court of diplomas extending social support to partners, self-employed workers, health professionals and parents who have to stay at home because of the closure of schools. But this government repeats to the exhaustion that « no one stays behind». Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we want to, we need to know how much it costs to have it. However, it tells us the research on this subject that the size of classes, provided that within reasonable limits, does not have a great influence on the quality of learning. Why does this government, which speaks so much about the autonomy of schools, which so much enhances the work of teachers and directors—when it does, of course, do not go from theory to action and let them be, above all, the pedagogical structures of schools to decide, class, case by case, the number of students per class, according to the pedagogical intent, depending on the characteristics of their students, the year of schooling, the type of class, the type of school, setting limits, for example, by determining a ratio of teachers/ pupils? Does it make sense to be the Ministry of Education to decide, centrally, that all classes in the country have the same size? Don't do it! The PSD argues that the organization of classes, the distribution criteria of students by classes and their size should be the sole responsibility of the educational structures of schools, and may form classes of variable size, depending on the characteristics of their students. What scientific practice and evidence have shown is that fixing the number of students administratively and at central level is not the best solution for both students and families. As regards the examinations, if, about a year ago, the Government determined that national examinations would serve only as proof of entry, now for the second consecutive year, it insists on undermining the expectations of students, because it does not want to give them the opportunity to improve the final classification of disciplines. For more than a year to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic, the Minister of Education, with regard to the conduct of national examinations, has learned nothing and has not guarded the legitimate expectations and interests of thousands of young people in secondary education, recalling health reasons. Only the laxism, inaction and impreparation of the Ministry of Education justify their decision, a political decision that deliberately ignores the effort, courage and additional will of thousands of students to want to access the courses they want in higher education. The Government had an obligation to have planned and guarded the logistical and organisational conditions necessary for these students to be able to carry out their examinations under safe health conditions as well. So aren't schools the safest place? Oh, my God! The government, diligently, preferred to follow the easiest path: to ban by decree, because, after all, the interests of students and their families are not at the top of the priorities of the bureaucratic machine of the Ministry of Education. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Students who wish to improve the internal note in their disciplines should have the right to do so. Furthermore, the National Access to Higher Education Commission, as has already been said, suggested that the possibility of conducting the examinations used for the purpose of improving the internal note should be opened, which is recommended. contrary to what left parties plan, wanting to end the final tests and exams, the PSD evaluates evaluation, exams and merit. I have already said this: the external evaluation of learning is of the instruments for regulating the development of curriculum and learning.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u342	Sir, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u343	I'm done now, Mr. President. We do not repudiate the exams, we do not underestimate the fundamental value of knowledge and we do not ignore the structuring power of curricular content that serves as its foundation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u344	To finish the time still available, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u345	Mr President, following the debate on these matters, we would like to say the following: of course we are not surprised that the PSD and CDS do not advocate the reduction in the number of students per class, because they were precisely responsible for the increase in the number of students per class, penalizing and harming students in our country, without ensuring the pedagogical quality that is necessary in the follow-up of teachers in the educational and learning process by students.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u346	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u347	I think this look is clear! And the way the question has been put is not to give priority to investment in education. It is always in the logic of expenditure and cost and not the importance of education for the development of our country and for the integral formation of individuals. The CFP has brought proposals to respond to the problems that exist in our country and that require a concrete response to the pandemic. The last two school years were not normal school years, like the previous ones, were exceptional, with enormous disturbances. This must be taken into account at the time of evaluation, so as not to penalize students. That is why we propose that there be the possibility of improvement, as is claimed by the students.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u348	Madam Member, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u349	I will finish, Mr. President. But we need to go further. We need to make an assessment, yes, but with the appreciation of the continuous evaluation and not in a perspective of creating obstacles.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u350	Mrs. Member, if you don't mind staying here right now...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u351	Mr President, let me just ask the last question. On school social action, what is important right now is to prevent students from leaving education because of the economic difficulties of families, with cuts in wages, with losses of income, with unemployment. Therefore, the CFP brings this proposal, in order to strengthen and ensure that everyone in education is able to continue, on an equal footing between all students, in order to ensure the success of their school course. I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u352	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further inscriptions, you have the floor to close the debate, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u353	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we are discussing here is the impact of reality that lives on a generation or more, the generations that have lost two school years. We have seen a government presenting studies in which this is clear, even though by default: 20 % with local difficulties to study, 17 % with difficulty in accessing computers, 15 % with difficulty in accessing the Internet, and this is only in the first confinement. Waiting for another study, waiting for a working group to set up and leaving hundreds of thousands of students affected and their families in panic because they do not know what to do or how to help, that, yes, should worry us. Although the studies indicate that the situation has worsened, this government continues to insist on examinations and to maintain the number of students per class, which, in our view, leaves the inequalities even more exposed. With regard to the number of students per class, this classic for some is just one of the many solutions for an emergency situation. It is not to be reducing the number of students per class to meet what is in the law but to respond to an emergency. We cannot continue to watch 30% of the students, or more, to stay behind—because that is what we are watching—and it is our responsibility, it is the responsibility of the government, to work to reduce the impact of reality on our children and our young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u354	Mrs. Members, in paragraph 6, the draft Law No 732 / XIV / 2 is followed, with no time allocated for debate. a ( PSD ) — Renewal of the transitional imposition of the mandatory use of masks in public spaces, extending for the second time the validity of Law No 62 -A / 2020 of 27 October, which means that we move to the next point, that of the statutory votes. Regarding the Voting Project No 509 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — regretting the death of Lourenço Feria, I ask Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed to her reading. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u355	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last 22 March, victim of prolonged disease, at the age of 86, Lourenço António Goes Martins Feria, farmer, natural of Salvada, municipality of Beja. Founder of the CDS in the region, Lourenço Feria was the leader of the CDS list by Basso Alentejo in the first legislative elections and member of the Municipal Assembly of Beja. He was also a prominent national and local leader, having for years been the President of the CDS District of Beja. Throughout his professional, political and association life, he never stopped having as one of the great battles the defense of the Alentejo, particularly of agriculture, of the rural world and of his people. Lourenço Feria was a man of strong convictions and full causes, and he was, in particular, an undefectable defender of democracy and the values of Christian democracy. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expressed its deep regret at the death of Lourenço Feria and presented his condolences to the grieving family. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u356	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The Vote Project No. 514 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — regretting the death of former Deputy José Puig, who will be read by Secretary Lina Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u357	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « The Assembly of the Republic took note of the sad news of the death of former PSD MP José Alberto Puig dos Santos Costa, victim of the COVID-19, after a prolonged hospital stay. José Puig was 59 years old, he was a lawyer and served as a member of the Assembly of the Republic in the V and VI legislatures between 1987 and 1995, elected by the Electoral Circle of the Port. In the course of his parliamentary life, he was committed to the monitoring of a wide range of issues within the framework of the Committees on Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees and Labour and Social Security, including the rights of immigrants, issues of conscientious objection, social support for deprived citizens, the functioning of information services and electoral legislation. He was also the first subscriber of the elevated laws of the Village of Ermesinde the city and the village of São Vicente de Alfena to the category of village, both in the municipality of Valongo, where he lived. José Puig was also President of the Valongo Municipal Assembly, between 1994 and 1997. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its public regret at the death of José Alberto Puig dos Santos Costa, presenting to his family his most heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u358	Thank you very much, Secretary Lina Lopes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the votes. We now have a number of congratulation voting proposals. I wonder if there is any parliamentary group that is against the complete non-reading of them. [[Pause.]] There is no objection, I will read their titles and vote on their deliberative parts. Mrs. Members, let us vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote No 521 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport and subscribed by PSD and PS Members ) — Congratulations on the award of the 2020 European Citizen Award to the National Listening Body ( NEC ). [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote No 522 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport and subscribed by PSD and PS Members ) — Congratulations on the consecration of Miguel Monteiro as a champion of the world in the launch of weight, class F40. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote No 523 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport and subscribed by PSD and PS Members ) — Congratulations on the allocation of the Global Teacher Award 2020 to Professor José Jorge Teixeira. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now vote the deliberative part of the Voting Project No 524 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport and signed by PS and PS Members ) — Congratulations on the 100th anniversary of the Arrifanense Sports Club. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 949 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Adaptation of the rules of access to the APOIAR measure to companies that continue to work. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 970 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government allow access to the programs APOIAR + SIMPLES and APOIAR RENDAS to entrepreneurs on an individual basis without employees in charge. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote of Bill No. 712 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the exceptional and temporary measure of the admissibility of suspension of essential service supply contracts in the context of responses to the epidemic crisis of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and the IL and abstained from PS, PSD and CH.]] Mrs Ana Rita Bessa asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u359	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u360	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u361	Just to clarify that the vote on the Liberal Initiative was against this initiative, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u362	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 717 / XIV / 2. a ( CFP ) — Establishs the extension and extension of bank moratoriums. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP and IL.]] Mr Ventura asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u363	Mr President, it is only to say that a statement of vote on this subject will be given to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u364	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 979 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Measures to support the recovery of the economy. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 1038 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By mobilizing support for shopkeepers in the context of the fight against the COVID-19 epidemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, CH and IL abstentions.]] Mrs. Members, we are voting in general on draft resolution No 1039 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By reviewing the regime for the functioning of economic activities of goods and services in the context of the fight against the epidemic of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against IL and the abstentions from PSD and CH.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1040 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Improving measures to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in response to the impacts of the COVID-19 epidemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 1041 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Establish the network of contact and support to micro-enterprises and individual entrepreneurs for access to response measures for the COVID-19 epidemic. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD abstentions.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1051 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Recommends that the Government extend the APOIAR programme to individual enterprises and entrepreneurs who have been excluded from the measures of that programme. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We now proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 681 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Determines the prohibition on the practice of shooting at captive birds for the sole purpose of serving as a target and the creation of a counter-ordering regime, by amending Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September. Who votes against? [[Pause.]] They vote against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the Arrival, the PCP and the Mrs. Deputies of PS Pedro do Carmo, Norberto Patinho and António Gameiro. Who's away? [[Pause.]] Abstaining the Liberal Initiative and Mr. PSD Member Cristovão Norte...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u365	I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u366	Here we go, sir. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will restart the vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u367	It's better!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u368	I did not hear your initiative, so it was my memory. And I have just received an order from the Secretary to repeat the vote. So orders are orders and I will fulfill it! Mrs. Members, we will vote for Bill No. 681 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Determines the prohibition of the practice of egg shooting... on the flight... [[Laughing.]] The gentlemen. Members are laughing, but it could also be. No one's remembered yet! [[Laughing.]] I'll reform it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We will generally vote for Bill No. 681 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Determines the prohibition on the practice of shooting at captive birds for the sole purpose of serving as a target and the creation of a counter-ordering regime, by amending Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PAN, ENP, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD Member Cristovão Norte, votes against PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and 3 Members of PS (António Gameiro, Norberto Patinho and Pedro do Carmo) and abstentions from IL and from PS Member Hugo Costa.]] As Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha says, it was « even to the tangent», but it was approved. We continue with the vote on an application by your author to the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 703 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Prohibits the practice of shooting animals raised in captivity and released to serve as target in hunting camps and shooting events ( the ninth amendment to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August and the fourth amendment to Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This bill therefore drops to 7. the Commission. We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 735 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — prohibits the use of live animals for the sport of shooting with a hunting weapon. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, BE, PAN, ENP, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD Member Cristovão Norte, votes against PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH, IL and 3 PS (António Gameiro, Norberto Patinho and Pedro do Carmo) and the abstention of PS Member Hugo Costa.]] For Bill No. 737 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — The fourth amendment is made to Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September, restricting exclusively sporting practices that cause animal death, we will vote for an application submitted by the author to the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, without a vote, for 60 days. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This bill goes down to 7. the Commission. We now vote on the Resolution Project No 583 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — The inclusion of priority protection for animals in the National Civil Protection Plan. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PCP were rejected in favour of the NAP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the ENP and the non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 677 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Decreases the maximum number of students allowed per class. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 966 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of non-invasive testing methods for children and young people in return to face-to-face education. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 968 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — On the review of national examinations, taking into account the inequalities revealed by distance education. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the IL and the CH.]] Mr Porfirio Silva asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u369	Mr President, it is only to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will make a written statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u370	You will be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting in general on Bill No 695 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Establish a maximum number of students per class. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 738 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Measures to support students in the context of school social action. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 739 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — establishes measures to reduce the number of students per class aimed at improving the teaching-learning process. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 740 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — lays down measures for the elimination of examinations by establishing a transitional scheme for completion of secondary education and access to higher education in school year 2020 / 2021. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We will now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 420 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government continue to carry out national final examinations for the approval of disciplines and completion of secondary education and that it use spaces under the height of the authorities to carry out the relevant teaching tests. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PSD abstentions.]] Mrs Bebiana Cunha asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u371	Mr President, it is to be announced that the NAP will make a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u372	You will be registered, Madam Member. Then we will vote on the Draft Resolution No. 1108 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Effective prevention and combat of early school dropout. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, the PCP and the PEV.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1109 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Under the law of students carry out national examinations to improve internal classification. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We will now vote, in general, in the expertise and in the overall final vote, the Bill No. 732 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Renewal of the transitional imposition of the mandatory use of masks in public spaces, extending for the second time the validity of Law No 62 -A / 2020 of 27 October. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against CH, IL and abstains from BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 953 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to encourage the use of reusable hygiene articles for early childhood. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PEN, PEN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u373	Mr President, it is to correct my sense of vote in relation to Bill No 740 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ). I believe that it does not change the outcome of the vote, but my point of vote is that of abstention and I think it has been registered as a favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u374	It does not change the meaning of the vote, but of course the vote of the honourable Member will be recorded. Ladies and gentlemen. Members are in favour of paragraphs 21 to 29 of the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic, I Series, concerning plenary meetings held on 20, 23, 24, 25, 26 November 2020 and 3, 4, 10 and 11 December 2020. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall then vote on two opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to give us the first opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u375	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Évora, Local Court of Évora, Juiz, Case No 204 / 18.0PATVD, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Norberto Patinho ( PS ) to present a statement as a witness within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u376	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I ask the Secretary, please give us an account of the second opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u377	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Juiz 5, Case No 10389 / 18.0T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mrs Maria Begonha ( PS ) within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u378	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha still has some information to give us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u379	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would just like to inform you that, via video conference, Members Marta Freitas and Sara Madruga of the Costa, respectively of the PS Parliamentary Group and the PSD Parliamentary Group, both elected by the electoral circle of Madeira. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-31.u380	Finally, I will begin to read the agenda for our next plenary meeting, which will take place on 8 April, Thursday, for 15 hours. of the first point is the discussion of the motion for a resolution No 20 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves for ratification the amendment to be added to Article 8. the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, adopted in The Hague, on December 06, 2019. In the second point we will appreciate Bill No 74 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to lay down rules for the implementation of Regulation ( EU ) 2017 / 2394 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the application of consumer protection legislation. of the third point is the joint debate of Bill Nos 710 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Clarify and simplify procedures for the submission of candidatures by groups of electors to the organs of the local authorities, making the tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election of the holders of the organs of the local authorities ; 690 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Tenth amendment to the Organic Law No. 1 / 2001 of 14 August ( Regulation for the election of holders of local authorities'bodies ), as regards applications proposed by groups of electors ; 719 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By replacing the conditions of civic and electoral participation of the citizen ( Tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August and the sixth amendment to Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August ) ; 694 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Ensures the suspension of the amendments limiting the candidature rights of small parties and groups of electors, approved by Organic Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 21 August, during the year 2021, and makes the tenth amendment to Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, 715 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Consecrates an exceptional and temporary regime, in the context of the epidemiological situation caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus and the disease COVID-19, to reduce the number of tenderers necessary for the submission of candidatures of groups of citizens to the general elections for local authorities to be held in 2021, as well as the twenty-third amendment to the Election Act of the President of the Republic, adopted by Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, and the tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election of local authorities' organs ; 728 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Alter the Electoral Law of Local Authorities (Tenth Amendment to Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August ) ; 730 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Amends the Act regulating the election of holders of local authorities'bodies in matters of special ineligibility ( Tenth amendment to Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August 2001, which regulates the election of holders of local authorities'bodies, as amended by Organic Law No 5 -A / 2001 of 26 November, 3 / 2005 of 29 August, 3 / 2010 of 15 December, and 1 / 2011 of 30 November, by Law No 72 -A / 2015 of 23 July, and by Organic Law No 1 / 2017 and 2 / 2017 of 2 May, 3 / 2018 of 17 August, 1 -A / 2020 of 21 August and 4 / 2020 of 11 November, and 757 / XIV / 2. a ( NiCR) — Strengthens the political participation of groups of electorate citizens; 759 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — eliminates the day of reflection and amends voting periods, and draft resolution No 984 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare and deliver to the Assembly of the Republic the studies necessary for the introduction of non-existenceal electronic voting in accordance with Article 8 (2). the Organic Law No 3 / 2018, of 17 August. At the fourth point we will proceed to the evaluation of Bill Nos 613 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Tenth amendment to the Statute of Deputies adopted by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March; 636 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Determines the possibility of a temporary replacement of Members in the event of an election of President of the Republic, of a member of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, of a member of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira or of an organ holder of the local authorities ( Tenth Amendment to Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ) and 638 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to the Statute of Deputies concerning the suspension of the mandate ( Tenth fourth amendment to the Statute of Deputies, approved by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ). of the fifth point is the discussion of Parliamentary Appreciation No 44 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Decree-Law No 14 / 2021 of 12 February amending the legal regime of entry, stay, departure and removal of aliens from national territory. At the sixth point we shall proceed to the debate of draft resolutions Nos 1032 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government diversify the acquisition of vaccines against COVID-19 and 1072 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government defend the lifting of vaccine patents against COVID-19, making them public and universal. of the seventh point is the assessment of the Bill Nos 584 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Determines the identification of all fees charged to taxpayers and the elimination of unfair and unjustified rates and 626 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Transparency mechanisms are established in respect of rates charged at the state level and local authorities and ensures the independent technical assessment of counterparties associated with the collection of each of the rates existing at the state level. At the eighth point we will appreciate the Bill Nos 723 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Establishment of the legal regime for the protection of urban shrubs; 733 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Defines the management criteria for the public urban tree and the mandatory establishment of municipal regulations; 741 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Approves the legal regime of protection, conservation and promotion of the urban tree and 748 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Instruments for managing shrubs in urban areas. of the ninth point is the joint discussion of the draft resolution n.o 907 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — By valuing scientific research and by the end of the work precariousness that reaches the research pockets and drafts of Law No 610 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Alter the status of the international student of higher education ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 36 / 2014 of 10 March ) ; 727 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Measures to support workers of the National Scientific and Technological System; 736 / XIV / 2. a ( NiCR) — Strengthens the protection of international students enrolled in public higher education institutions; 753 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Clarifies the extension of the deadline for the delivery and presentation of theses or dissertations by means of an interpretative standard of Law No 75 - B / 2020 of 31 December and 758 / XIV / 2. a ( CFP ) — Legal arrangements for the hiring of scientific research personnel in training. In the tenth point we will appreciate the Bill No. 722 / XIV / 2. a ( PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, and PEV ) — Amendment to Law No 77 / 88 of 1 July, published by Law No 28 / 2003 of 30 July, and amended by Laws No 13 / 2010 of 19 July, and 55 / 2010 of 24 December. of the 1st and 1st point are the voting of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since tomorrow we will only have committee meetings and there will be no plenary meeting, I want a good Easter for all. We'll meet here after Easter. The session is closed. [[It was 20 hours and 58 minutes.]]
