ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the authority, we will initiate the plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] There is a technical problem with sound in the first three rows of the PS bench. Provisionally, Mr. Members who occupy these ranks have to go further, otherwise they have no access to sound. I would ask the departments to resolve this problem urgently, because today we have a vote. So, the gentlemen. Members who occupy these first three rows of the PS bench have to do the favor of going back, to have microphones with sound. [[Pause.]] Let's start the work. Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has several notices to give to the House. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u2	Mr President, we have to vote on a number of opinions from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. The first opinion is to authorize the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of Mrs Carla Barros ( PSD ) within the framework of the reference cars — Case No 299 / 21.9KRLSB.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u4	The opinion is to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity by Mr Duarte Pacheco ( PSD ) within the framework of the reference cars — Case No 302 / 21.2KRLSB.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u6	The opinion is to authorize the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of Mrs Elza Pais ( PS ) within the framework of the reference cars — Case No 303 / 210KRLSB.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u8	The opinion is to authorize the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of Mr Fernando Anastácio ( PS ) within the framework of the reference cars — Case No 304 / 21.9KRLSB.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u9	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u10	The opinion is to authorize the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of Mr João Pinho de Almeida ( CDS-PP ) within the framework of the reference cars — Case No 306 / 21.5KRLSB.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u11	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u12	The opinion is to authorize the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of Mr Nuno Sá ( PS ) within the framework of the reference cars — Case No 312 / 2100KRLSB.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u13	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u14	The opinion is to authorize the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of Mr Paulo Neves ( PSD ), within the framework of the cars in reference — Case No 313 / 21.8KRLSB.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u15	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u16	The opinion is to authorize the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of Mr Pedro Roque ( PSD ) within the framework of the reference cars — Case No 298 / 2100KRLSB.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u17	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u18	The opinion is to authorize the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos ( PS ) within the framework of the reference cars — Case No 316 / 21.2KRLSB.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u19	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u20	That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u21	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Let us then get on the agenda for our sitting. The first point deals with the assessment of Bill No 89 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1153 on the use of financial and other information for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating or repressing criminal offences; No 90 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and related laws, implementing measures provided for in the National Anti-Corruption Strategy ; paragraph 91 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1937 on the protection of persons who denounce violations of Union law ; and No 98 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 713 on combating fraud and counterfeiting of means of payment other than cash; of Bill No 411 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July 2019 — Approves the regime for the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions, amending Article 10. the, respectively, conferring the period of disgust between the exercise of governmental and public and private positions and the incompatibility of political and high public positions holders may exercise any positions or functions in undertakings with which they have negotiated by the State as holders of the protection folder they represented, paragraph 564 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — Enhancing the minimum and maximum criminal frameworks provided for in relation to crimes of passive and active corruption, paragraph 671 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ) — Creates an Article 150. o -A in Decree-Law No. 48 / 95 of 15 March ( Criminal Code, in its latest version, with the amendment of Law No. 58 / 2020 of 31 August ) ; No. 749 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Revocation of residence permits for investment activity ( gold visas ) ; No 798 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Criminalization of unjustified enrichment ( fifty-second amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 48 / 95 of 15 March and seventh amendment to Law No 34 / 87 of 16 July ) ; No 799 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Bans the State from using arbitration as a form of dispute resolution in administrative and fiscal matters; paragraph 805 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Creates the crime of unjustified enrichment and concealment of wealth ( second amendment to the regime of the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions ) ; No 816 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July on the extension of reporting obligations and the densification of the crime of concealment of enrichment, No 843 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Extends the reporting obligations of the holders of political positions and high public positions and creates the crime of intentional concealment of enrichment by the second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July; No 860 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — The second amendment is made to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July with a view to preventing and combating unjustified enrichment and concealment of wealth; No 866 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creation of the complainant's protection regime; No 867 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creates the crime of withholding profits and revises the penalties applicable to liability crimes committed by holders of political and high public positions; No 868 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creation of the sorry status; No 869 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — The twentieth amendment is made to Law No 21 / 85 of 30 July, which approves the Statute of the Judiciary Judges, creating the crime of withholding income and unlawful enrichment and amending the conditions for the exercise of non-statutory functions, No 870 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — The second amendment of Law No 68 / 2019 of 27 August approving the Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office, creating the crime of withholding income and illicit enrichment and amending the conditions for the exercise of non-statutory functions, No 874 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Strengthens the transparency duty imposed on holders of political positions and high public positions ( second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July ) ; No 875 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Approves measures to combat corruption and economic and financial crime by amending the Penal Code and related legislation; No 876 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Thirty-eighth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted by Decree No 78 / 87 of 17 February; No 877 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July, extending reporting obligations and providing for mandatory communication to the Public Prosecutor's Office of the lack of indication of the facts that caused capital increases ; and No 879 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Approves the status of protection of the complainant, and of the Draft Resolution No 86 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Government involvement in the search for solutions for the end of tax havens. To open the debate, you have the floor of Mrs. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem, who welcomes you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all. As is public knowledge, the Government approved a National Anti-Corruption Strategy in 2020. He did so because he believed that the fight against corruption was essential to strengthening the quality of our democracy and the full realization of the rule of law. This strategy, with particular relevance to the preventive dimension of the phenomenon, recognizes obvious difficulties in the sanctioning plan and emphasizes that prevention should also be carried out by improving the capacity of the judicial system to impose effective and dissuasive criminal sanctions in a reasonable time. The Proposal for Law No 90 / XIV / 2. it responds to this recognition, seeking to introduce amendments to the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the law on the responsibility of political office holders, the diploma providing for the conduct of preventive actions relating to these types of crimes and the Code of Commercial Societies. The solutions presented by the Government today constitute their choices, choices made at the end of a work of more than one year, involving academics, judges, lawyers, psychologists and citizens of other professional extracts, who wanted to join this process and who enriched it with the diversity of their perspectives and approaches. The Government has also dialogued with Parliament by presenting its proposals and opening them up to discussion with the parliamentary groups. The centrality of this issue in the political debate and its consequences at the economic level, in the social level and in the level of citizens' confidence in democratic values and institutions justify seeking to gather as broad a consensus as possible and, on it, affect decisions as thoughtful as fast, because also here time has its own density and reading. This means that all actors in the legislative process now assume their responsibilities. We will all agree that the laxity of decisions, the perception of the insufficiency of the rates of clarification of crime and the adequacy and effectiveness of sanctions discredit the State's reaction to this phenomenon. The proposals we bring are four objectives, all identified in the Strategy. We have to get out of the plan of mere proclamations and move on to action. Basically, what we propose, in objective terms, is to : improve the time between the occurrence of the crime and its knowledge by the law enforcement authorities; break the veil of opacity under which these criminal environments are covered, breaking the pacts of silence; increase the timely response, both in the investigation, and in subsequent procedural phases; ensure the effectiveness of criminal sanctions with the corresponding deterrent effect. With these objectives, the proposal introduces changes in such diverse matters as: the prescription of the criminal procedure, harmonizing the time limits of the Criminal Code with extravagant legislation; the institutes of dispensation and attenuation of the penalty; the ancillary penalties; the concept of civil servant; the penalties applicable to commercial companies; the criminal regime of legal persons; the rules of connection of proceedings; the valorisation of full and without reservations. At the same time, this set of proposals also seeks to transpose the European directive on complainants, which allows those who, having reason to believe, have good faith, that the facts they know constitute crimes, to participate in the authorities. I will not make an exhaustive description of all the measures. I will, however, bring a very brief note of institutes which, by their centrality, may make the difference between change and stagnation. I'd start by exempting the penalty. The exemption from the penalty, already provided for in the law concerning the crime of corruption, is a measure that, properly configured, not only ensures an adequate response of the system to the situations of active repentance, as it may favour the breaking of the so-called "silence pacts" that form between corrupt and corrupt. More than perception, we are sure that the configuration of this institute, in matters of corruption, does not allow us to achieve the aims of its creation. The norm we have today, despite the successive interventions you have known, does not apply in practice. Its bureaucratic design, marked by the requirement that the agent denounce the facts within 30 days following its execution, but always before the criminal procedure was instituted, transforms it into an empty, difficult-to-implementable standard. We propose to change it to give it a useful sense and to assure law enforcers a tool that helps them in their activity, within the framework of a fair and equitable process. Therefore, we propose the elimination of the 30-day deadline and also the return to the mandatory system of application of the penalty exemption, where the agent's position approaches the active repentance and there is no public interest injury, because the unlawful action or omission referred to in the corruptive act has not been verified. The difference between the other model and this is that, currently, the agent is aware that, in the face of an attempt to indulge or a momentary breach of which he repents, he can count on the legal protection, if he decides to file the complaint. It is also ensured that the dispensation, verified by the legal assumptions, is not held in the discretion of the judicial authorities, reducing the margin of randomity in the treatment of situations and favoring the confidence of the repentant citizen, in the adequacy of the responses of the criminal system. But it will go further and it is agreed that the dispensation can still take place if the agent, during the investigation, decides to retract, confess the facts and contribute decisively to the search for truth and to obtain proof. The dispensation always presupposes the return or the requirement for the return of the advantage granted. The exemption from the penalty is, for all purposes, a conviction, which means that it does not prevent the loss of the proceeds of the crime and also does not prevent the extended loss, in favour of the State, of the difference established between the actual estate of the agent and its declared income and heritage. The loss of the estate, the farm and the property that constitute the proceeds of the crime and the impossibility of returning to the performance of the charges that have led to criminal activity will perhaps be the hardest blows that justice can inflict on this type of crime. That is why, in all labour hypotheses, even in cases of remission of the penalty, the possibility of loss of property and widespread loss remained intact. It was also because of this that we proposed an accessory penalty of inhibition of the exercise of political office for up to 10 years for the holders of political office condemned by the practice of crimes of corruption, whose conduct reveals serious indignity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issues associated with the speed and effectiveness of sanctions have been addressed in the framework of the criminal proceedings, through interventions that rationalize legal requirements for the connection and separation of proceedings, which simplify the production of evidence and the proliferation of decisions, without loss of guarantees. Agreements on the applicable penalty constitute a procedurally well-founded and socially appropriate response to cases of full and unreserved confession. Inspired by national legal tradition and solutions adopted in legal systems close to ours, the agreements allow for economic gains and procedural speed. With the conclusion of the agreement, the facts confessed are proved, and there is only evidence regarding the determination of the penalty. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When presenting this proposal to Parliament, the Government fulfils its responsibilities with regard to the country and implements the commitments made in its programme. As we say in the Strategy, corruptive phenomena attack the fundamental principles of the rule of law, weaken citizens' credibility and trust in institutions and compromise economic and social development. by betraying the rules of the proper functioning of the state, corruptive phenomena cause erosion of the rules of good governance and inevitably degrade the relationship between the state and the citizens. This proposal is therefore a call for action by the political leaders, the government, who took the initiative, and the representatives of the legislative power. Our nations, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today they are weakened in a world suspended by a pandemic. No one will understand that, at a time when the State is most required to restore equal opportunities, to respond to the crisis with justice and equity, no decisions are made with effective potential for change, with clarity, purpose and enforceability. No ethically sustained reason or based on the principles and purposes of law and criminal proceedings will prevent the possibility of together, at this time, giving a collective sign of rejection of the practices in which corruptive phenomena grow. A sign of wanting to rescue citizens, economic agents, from the tyranny of those who, within the political system, the administrative apparatus or the business public sector, take advantage of their weaknesses or vices to derive personal benefits, feeding parallel powers and undermining the credibility of the State and its institutions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the time, this is the time. Portugal will not accept as an answer« We want to fight corruption, but not so, because 1000 dangers look at us. » or the answer given in the eloquent song of the Deolinda « Go without me, which I will have there». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u23	Mrs Minister for Justice, the Bureau records the registration of four Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u24	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u25	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, then has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, the Government's proposal that criminalizes the National Strategy for Combating Corruption has positive aspects, has negative aspects and has a very loud silence. The Government's lack of initiative on the criminalization of unjustified enrichment was explained by the Minister for the alleged lack of need to operate this transformation of the Portuguese legal order. This lack of appearance, which the Socialist Party's late initiative does not disguise, leaves the strategy without the ambition to go to the essential, which we have recorded. There are positive points we also want to note. The amendment of the limitation deadlines, the extension of the application of the provisional suspension of proceedings and, in particular, the amendments to the rules on connection and separation of proceedings are, in our view, positive contributions to the fight against corrupt behaviour. There is, however, a government choice that deserves us the greatest reservation. I am referring to the centrality of the proposal for criminal awards and the negotiation of sentences. I know that the Minister will justify — as you have already done here — this choice with the usual argument: that all this is already in the law and that it has just been tried. But it's not like that. For example, the special penalty attenuation for the defendants who collaborate until the closing of the trial hearing of first instance—I repeat, until the closing of the trial hearing of first instance! — it is a door-to-door break to a perverse form of criminal proceedings of the negotiated confession, instead of a criminal case of qualified investigation. A serious strategy to combat corruption involves providing criminal investigation of human, technical and material resources stronger than those at the disposal of the world of corruption. But the government has chosen the easiest and cheapest way, which is that of the added premium right. Mrs. Minister, remember-CL will certainly be a Pope who, somewhere in the fifteenth century, granted plenary indulgence to all sinners who would redeem their sins by contributing financially to the works of St. Peter's Basilica. The question is whether the Government wants to reverse a policy of indulgences to change confessions or whether it wants to be determined in order to strengthen the conditions of action of criminal investigation bodies against corruption. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u27	You have the floor to ask for clarifications by Mr Carlos Peixoto of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u28	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the PSD has put forward proposals in the area of criminal law, criminal proceedings and also the concealment of wealth, presenting, in this case, a solution which, not being the most astonishing, is, in our view, the most effective of all. The government in this matter was strangely out of play. He showed some disdain for the criminalization of unjustified or wrongful enrichment, or concealment of wealth, and still did not explain well why. I think it's time to do it today. But one thing must be said, Mrs Minister, and it has already been mentioned here: there are no good laws with bad resources and weak means and investments in criminal investigation. And the government, which had an obligation to submit a four-year plan for investment in criminal investigation, has not yet done so. Therefore, there are also no good laws with bad practices and, in Portugal, in this matter, we have not been well frequented. Madam Minister, let me talk to you about another dimension of the problem. The PSD has some time in the debate and will then discuss all the proposals under discussion. Madam Minister, you will agree with me that as long as we move forward to become the poorest nation in Europe, as we are petitioned by the European Commission and the European Central Bank, as the Government subsidizes social communication and as the socialist power suffocates and appropriates the state, we will always live in a weakened democracy and under a terrible public perception that there is a sub-world of sympathy and favors. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u29	Make the laws you want there, but if you don't change your practices, it's all the same. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Minister, even well-intentioned, of good faith, there is one thing that will not be released, which is from the stains caused by the appointment labyrinths which she has done in her ministry and which she has played. This indisputable roupio of judges and PJ technicians for this institution, for state organs and courts is obscene, it is brazen, it is toxic and it is baffling.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u31	Make excuses there, Mrs. Minister, but Caesar's wife is not enough to know it, it must look like it. We have a lot of immorality and, if you do not want to be alone, ask the Council of Ministers there because 69 % — are recent news — of the nominations for top positions in the state are due to contests and junk games and because the celebrations of 25 April are remunerated for five years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u32	What does that have to do with the matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u33	It's got everything to do with this! What I ask you to conclude, Mrs Minister, is whether this mud and this promiscuity do not bother you and what the law that, in your opinion, resolves this democratic perverseness. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u34	You have the floor to make a request for clarification, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u35	Mr President, Mrs Minister, said that the Government has assumed its responsibilities. Today is precisely the opposite day. And it is Mr.Minister's day to explain why, after talking about illicit enrichment for years, the illicit enrichment was out of this proposal of the Socialist Party. I think there's no other time to give this explanation but today. I would also like to ask you, honestly, whether you think it is relieving penalties for those who confess or even waive the penalty, as provided for in your proposal, which will really fight corruption. It is that this ends up being neither award-winning delation nor qualified research, which is indeed a failure and failure, which is a green way to economic crime in Portugal. This is what the Minister needs to explain. Tell me a system of the world that is equal to the one that brought this Parliament today on dispensation. I repeat : exactly the same as the one who proposes! Finally, the Minister, again the reform of the Central Criminal Instruction Court ( CCT ), of which Antonio Costa has spent months talking and also the Minister. We have hoped for the reform of the Ticão, but it is not in its legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u36	We've approved it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u37	After all, what is this government proposal? Oh, my God! This proposal does not bring illicit enrichment, which is indeed a green way to crime, and does not contain the reform of the Central Criminal Instruction Court! The Minister concluded with a quote from the Deolinda, who said « Go without me, that I will have there». In the case of PS, it will be more « Go without me, that I will never have there ».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u38	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a last request for clarification that I have forgotten, since there has been a replacement in the PS Parliamentary Group. So you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Cláudia Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Peixoto has given a proverb that is no longer disturbing and that it is persistently repeated in these reflections on corruption, which is that idea that Caesar's wife is not enough to be serious, it must be said. In the 21st century, no woman needs to look what is not. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a deeply misogynistic proverb for a debate of this nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u40	He may be right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u41	It is, in any case, an interesting saying to enter the debate on this strategy. This strategy is more concerned with what it looks like and has sometimes been misinterpreted in several areas. Interestingly, and paradoxically, the opposition accuses this strategy, on the one hand, of being harmless, because it would serve nothing, and on the other hand, of being dangerous — the PSD has made this accusation — insofar as this strategy represents a change of paradigm of an incursion into the premium law, typical of the Anglo-Saxon system. Therefore, they intend to say a strategy that it is one thing and its opposite. But neither one statement nor the other is accurate. First, the strategy is far from harmless. The strategy has radically innovative proposals, both under criminal law and under criminal procedural law. Further, we will give examples and refer to an aspect that is fundamental and that no one has ever had the courage to propose, which is the creation of a new accessory penalty, which will prevent public agents, politicians, convicted of corruption from being re-elected or appointed for a period of up to 10 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u42	We propose 12 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u43	This measure has been in the PS program since 2019 and is in the PSD bill 14 days ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This proposal for the creation of an accessory penalty arose in the Government Program in June 2019 and appeared in the PSD bill on June 11, 2021, so exactly 14 days ago. It's a radically new measure, very punitive...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u44	What a joke!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u45	... and that will fulfill the purpose of credible our democracy and our institutions. This strategy is also radically innovative in criminal proceedings. And, further on, we will explain why it is not a negotiated criminal law, similar to the Anglo-Saxon model, but a solution close to the agreements on the sentence which are provided for in the German Code of Criminal Procedure since August 2009 and which are now responsible for the confrontation of more than 80 % of the serious and economic crime, with more speed and with an incomparablely higher percentage of convictions. Therefore, this proposal which the Government brings here today corresponds to a courageous, ambitious strategy that is more concerned about what it looks like. The question I wanted to leave, Mrs Minister, is related to another dimension of this, not least relevant strategy, which is the preventive dimension. That's what we liked to hear. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u46	You have the floor to answer this set of four questions, Mrs. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that the set of issues is not as broad as I expected, but I will try to answer everyone, as far as I have understood them. I believe that the first issue that permeates the various requests for clarification is summarized as to why the Government has decided not to have any intervention on the proposal on unjustified enrichment. I had the opportunity to explain this to the ladies and gentlemen. Members, in committee, and I repeat now. At the time the proposal for a strategy was submitted, it had just entered into force Law No 52 / 2019, which precisely criminalized not the non-declaration but the refusal of declaration or the inaccurate declaration following a notification for the declaration of goods, income and heritage. This was the result of Parliament's initiative, and the Government felt that, as it would be, it should, in the sense of institutional courtesy, allow Parliament to take on this matter and, if necessary, change it. For everything else, the Government has shown no difficulty in dealing with any of the issues that the problem of combating corruption involves. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government does not intend to award awards in exchange for confessions. Mr. José Manuel Pureza asked whether the government would like to reverse a policy of indulgence in the exchange of confessions. No, sir, it's not like that! And that is not so, because it is expressed in the law, it is expressed in our proposals that, even in the case of dispensation or attenuation of the penalty, the agent loses the goods that he illegally acquired through the corruptive act. It is expressed in our proposals that, even in the event of a waiver or accumulation of punishment, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judiciary Police should carry out property research in order to achieve the widespread loss of property. This means that it returns to the State the difference between the actual assets of the agent—of course, in the power of the agent or in the power of third parties—and what results from their returns. Therefore, this issue, Mr President, is far away. They also ask me about the issue of investment in infrastructure and criminal investigation. On this issue, I have already returned the question, but I want to tell you the following: first of all, the great means of the Public Prosecutor's investigation are the police; in this case, the Judicial Police. But even considering the Public Prosecutor's Office, it is the knowledge of this Parliament — and I think we should not persist in making statements that are not rigorous — that since 2016 the Government has opened training courses at the Centre for Judicial Studies (CEJ), within the capacity of the centre, favouring the judiciary of the Public Prosecutor's Office throughout this period. This Parliament also knows, because the Government has given information, that the Government has made available to the Public Prosecutor's Office financial resources for the establishment of a computerisation programme for the investigation, which is the responsibility of the Public Prosecutor's Office and that at the moment the Government will also support the RPP's funds. This Parliament is also aware that with regard to the Judiciary Police, the Government has been able to ensure entry of new assets and has been able to allocate sufficient funds to the Judiciary Police to modernise itself from the point of view of the computerization and digitization of the processes. Parliament knows that the judicial police laboratory has at present a level of attachment as it has never had, with a department which is solely responsible for the crime of a computer nature. On the other hand, on this point, the government is even accused of possibly placing people to carry funds to the judiciary, so in practice the speech ends up contradictory. Mr Peixoto then stated at some point that the Government was living as a petitioner of the European Commission. Now I think that this is to assume a nullity status as a member of the Union. The European Union is a union of all and for all. It is a union of solidarity between States, in which, of course, States are supportive in terms of cohesion policies that benefit all States in accordance with their needs. Therefore, to put the question in those terms is exactly to assume the mentality of the applicant. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then, yes, he's assuming the applicant's mindset. It is not a question of asking, it is only the government that uses its rights within an organisation of which it is part of the right. The question about the Central Criminal Instruction Court must start with a misunderstanding because, as Mr Ventura knows, the Government has adopted a proposal for a law which is justly designed to change the working conditions of this Court, which is proposed which has been sent to Parliament. The Government has the expectation that it will be discussed on 9th and, since the question is being put, obviously, requires that this proposal come here on 9th to be discussed by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the prevention of corruption, we believe that prevention is, in fact, the central issue. We believe that it is the central issue in that we have a phenomenon that is rooted in our societies, a phenomenon that has historical, cultural roots, that is not exclusively national and that, of course, it also feeds on the weaknesses of our organization, problems associated with transparency and some lack of legal certainty. Therefore, in this perspective, what the Government has done was to remove the issue of the prevention of softlaw corruption and create a general regime for the prevention of corruption. This general system of prevention of corruption provides for a set of taxes for the public sector and the private sector, including the existence of regulatory compliance programmes, programmes including risk prevention plans for corruption, codes of ethics and codes of conduct, responsible for regulatory compliance, and channels of complaint. The violation of the rules laid down in that diploma, in particular the non-implementation of the plans in accordance with those laid down there, implies and incurs penalties for public or private agents ranging from administrative law to counter-ordinary law, causing agents to engage in counter-ordinating fines. At the same time—because it feels that there is a lack of national capacity to coordinate information, which is produced in different spaces, which has different sources, which is not worked and which allows to generate an external perception of the phenomenon that we do not know to what extent it effectively corresponds to the phenomenon we have—the government has also created an entity, a mechanism that will monitor and monitor this matter, collecting and treating information from all areas that currently deal with the phenomenon. It is the National Anti-Corruption Mechanism, created as an independent entity, which will be responsible for the development of this activity. It will also be responsible for the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy and its subsequent developments, and, of course, it is expected that it will be associated with the Public Prosecutor's Office, with the Judicial Police, with the sectoral inspections and with all those entities, particularly private entities, which already have experience and some thickness in dealing with the issues associated with corruption. The expectation we have is to change things through this package. It is a complex package, with measures in the field of prevention, which are many and which, of course, go through the general regime, but also by changing practices at the level of the administrative sector and, in the political dimension, the codes of conduct, the requirement for greater transparency and the requirement not only of the requirements resulting from the current codes, but also new requirements, for example, the principle of the four eyes, which requires at least two actors to have at least one type of decisions, and the principle of legislative enforcement, which provides that there is full transparency with regard to legislative decisions for all persons involved in the legislative process. In short, there is will on the part of the Government. The government comes here with the will to change this state of affairs, because there are not enough proclamations against corruption, there must be an effective action, a coherent action, capable of changing this, changing the state of wonder in which we find ourselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]] An action that effectively enables us to regenerate the state in which, in some way, we all fall, and in which we end up making judgments—which are unfounded judgments—about the state of the country in the matter of combating corruption. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u48	To submit Law Nos 749 / XIV / 2. a e 860 / XIV / 2. a and the Resolution Project No 86 / XIV / 1. Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fight against corruption is a fight that is necessary, even to improve our democracy, making it more transparent and assigning more rigour to the management of the public thing. A fight to credibility the institutions of our rule of law, but also a fight to defend and affirm a culture of democratic responsibility. For this, it is necessary to take steps not only at the legislative level but also at the level of the technical and human resources of the criminal investigation bodies, which are decisive in this fight, because the investigating entities are often confronted with a lack of means, especially at a time when we find a great deal of sophisticated instruments used for the practice of corruption crimes. With regard to the legislative plan, the Greens are now discussing three proposals which are of decisive importance in the fight that we all recognise is necessary to stop. The first proposal concerns golden visas, a mechanism that has shown to be a failure in job creation and that has been associated with illicit practices such as corruption, petulate, money laundering and influence trafficking, among others. In this respect, it is stressed that the European Parliament's special committee on financial crimes proposes the abolition of golden visas. The Committee considers that the potential economic benefits of the golden visa schemes do not compensate for the serious risks of security, money laundering and tax evasion which they present and call upon Member States to revoke them. And that is exactly what The Greens propose: the end of the golden visas. As regards economic and financial crime, through offshore centres, it must be said that these mechanisms are the image of the injustice prevailing in the system. In fact, tax havens serve only for large economic groups and great fortunes to create highly developed mechanisms to escape taxes or to proceed with money laundering and hide other crimes associated with corruption. Therefore, any strategy to combat corruption cannot, in our view, leave the effort out of the way to end these manoeuvres that only serve for some people not to pay taxes and to hinder or even prevent the investigation of crimes associated with corruption. In addition, tax havens were also the stage of some events, such as bank bankruptcy or large-scale fraud. And the worst thing is that these activities are often associated with the clandestine economy, tax evasion, tax fraud, organized crime, money laundering and sometimes many practices that weaken global stability, such as the drug business and even the arms business. But worse, this real casino economy is inseparable from the worsening social inequalities, poverty and unsustainability of the economic model that is taking place in the world. Here it is appropriate to remember the scandalous processes of BCP ( Banco Comercial Português ), BPP ( Banco Privado Português ) or BPN ( Banco Inglês de Neglés ), which indicated practices related to companies based exactly in tax havens and whose invoice ended up being paid by Portuguese taxpayers. Therefore, in our perspective, tax havens must be looked at as a foreign element to our democracy. It does not make sense that there are still places where justice does not enter, where the judiciary is at the door, with governments pretending that nothing has to do with the matter and that there is nothing to do with it. We know that it is not a problem that the Portuguese Government can solve on its own, but we also know that the Portuguese Government can put pressure on the European Union and other European organisations it is part of in order to end this immorality. That is also what the Greens are proposing today: that the Portuguese Government be actively involved in bringing an end to tax havens. Finally, but not least, it is the third proposal that the Greens bring to the debate today. It is intended to create the crime of unjustified enrichment and the concealment of wealth. In fact, impunity to which citizens, so often, are witnessing, in the face of the strange enrichment of people who perform public functions, does not only weaken the idea of justice, also discredits the whole of democratic institutions, creating strong mistrust over their functioning and, therefore, requires the criminalization of unjustified enrichment and the concealment of wealth. Of course, the solution must be sought in respect of constitutional guarantees, not only at the criminal level but also at the procedural-penal level, so that the process we are now discussing does not have the same outcome as the previous ones, with the declaration of their unconstitutionality by the Constitutional Court, as happened in 2012 and also in 2015. For this reason, the Greens, identifying themselves with the generality of the proposals put forward by the Association of Trade Unions of the Portuguese Judges, chose to accept these same suggestions in their proposal. It is intended, therefore, to include promises of future advantages with economic value in the reporting obligations; to introduce, in the declarations of income and heritage, the indication of the source of wealth acquired, requiring not only to declare its existence but also its provenance; to punish, as an intentional concealment of wealth, the omission of declaration; and finally to generate criminal consequences for the holder of office receiving offers of goods or services of great value without presenting them to the competent body. In conclusion, I just want to say that the Greens now show all the availability to, in the field of expertise and within the constitutional framework, if they seek a solution as consensual as possible about the question of illicit enrichment or the concealment of wealth, which will, in fact, strengthen the fight against corruption. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u50	Mrs Vera Braz of the Socialist Party entered a request for clarification. However, Mr José Luís Ferreira, who has just spoken, has no further time to answer. In any case, if you want to turn this request for clarification into an intervention, you can do so. Mrs. Vera Braz, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, in this fight against corruption, have a special impact on measures to prevent the use of the financial system, in the practice of illegal operations, and measures to combat fraud and tax evasion, as Mr Deputy said. successive legislative frameworks, by the hands of the Socialist Party, have contributed to this struggle. It is therefore important to highlight an important disruptive moment in 2002 with the breakdown of bank and fiscal secrecy, an important measure for the adoption of measures to combat money laundering, which forced the financial institutions themselves to reformulate their compliance departments and communicate suspicious financial movements. Since then, in the face of an increasingly global, increasingly digital world, with new business models that give rise to new fraudulent behaviours, there has been a demand for follow-up and legislative developments that can respond to these new illicit practices, to schemes of abusive tax planning or to fight the parallel economy. This Government and the Socialist Party have gone this way, intensifying legislation on combating money laundering, financing terrorism and evasion and tax fraud. The reporting of account balances above EUR 50 thousand is just one example of the measures contributing to this fight. In 2019, we have already seen a 33 % reduction in transfers from Portugal to so-called « tax havens ». Mr President, we agree with the fact that there is a way to go, which is still a long way, but we also believe that this path is being made. We therefore believe that this government, this Parliament and the Socialist Party will continue to work on this path and, just as several measures have already been taken to combat money laundering and tax evasion and fraud, it will continue to be done and will rely on the support of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u52	You have the floor, for an intervention and for the presentation of the PCP bills, Mr.António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : We are discussing 25 legislative and parliamentary initiatives on the fight against corruption in two hours. I have 21 seconds and 6 tenths for each of them. I should like to thank the rapporteur for his report. For the CFP, the problem of combating corruption as a fundamental element for the defence of democracy and the democratic rule of law and the conviction of the need to improve existing legislative mechanisms, and above all to equip the judicial authorities and criminal investigation with the means necessary to ensure the effectiveness of their missions, not today, nor yesterday. For the PCP, the conviction of the need to adopt effective measures to combat corruption was not born with a pronunciation order of 2021, either with media waves or with the screams of some demagogues. Mrs. Members, listen, therefore, to the quote that I am going to quote below: « For the CFP, the situation in Portugal as regards corruption and, in particular, the absence of investigation and accountability of perpetrators of such crimes is absolutely unacceptable. When, as is the case in Portugal, the action of the Government leads to the denial of the necessary means of investigating crimes of corruption and fraud, particularly those relating to diversions of Community funds, what is being called into question is the basic functioning of the rule of law and are the fundamental foundations of the democratic regime that are being corroded. It cannot deserve the confidence of the citizens of a government which denies the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judicial Police the necessary means for investigating crimes of corruption and fraud, which is committed to minimizing this situation and concealing, before the public opinion, the extent and severity of the phenomenon of corruption. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what the government was like? What did the government mean by this intervention? It wasn't the current government, nor the previous government, nor did it. It was the Government of the Cavaco Silva PSD and we were on 26 October 1994, in an urgent debate on corruption, scheduled by the PCP Parliamentary Group, motivated by a report of an inspection then carried out by the Public Prosecutor, which accounted for 186 fraud cases involving Community funds that remained in the Judicial Police for several years without a single investigation. But 12 years and 5 governments later, in July 2006, the CFP positively allocated a new urgent debate, on the subject of a report by GRECO ( Group of States Against Corruption ), particularly severe for Portugal, due to the absence of effective measures to combat economic crime in Portugal. This initiative of the CFP was not due to any attempt to navigate the headlines that at the time called the GRECO report as a « raster », but to the awareness that corruption and often its impunity undermine the basic foundations and credibility of the democratic rule of law, opening the way to false generalizations and demagogues that everything they do to associate corruption with democracy, preaching a false moral that would deny themselves in the day when they came to power. A few months after this debate, the CFP presented for the first time in this Assembly, on 15 February 2007, the Bill No 360 / X / 2. a for the criminalization of illicit enrichment, then rejected with the votes against the PS and PSD. The so-called "corruption package" then approved, despite the 14 bills submitted, did not pass a missed opportunity. In April 2009 the PCP insisted on project 726 / X / 4. the, which joined project 747 / X / 4. a, from the PSD, the one that previously Mr. Carlos Peixoto said was the first. The absolute majority of PS rejected both projects. At the end of 2009 the PCP and BE insisted on initiatives on this subject, which were then rejected by the conjugation of votes of the PS and the CDS. In July 2010 alone, the Assembly of the Republic approved a relevant legislative package on combating corruption, following serious study, debate, auscultation and acceptance of opinions of the most famous personalities in the field of combating corruption and economic and financial crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u54	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u55	It was then adopted the important Resolution No 91 / 2010 which recommended that the Government take measures aimed at strengthening prevention and combating corruption, largely yet to be implemented, and there was a relevant legislative improvement, in particular with the creation of the type of crime of undue receipt of advantage, which allows us to say that the greatest problem of combating corruption in Portugal is no longer the lack of laws, but, above all, the lack of resources and dysfunctions in relevant aspects of the functioning of justice which obviously needs to correct. The issue of illicit or unjustified enrichment was, however, to legislate, despite the initiatives of the CFP, the EB and the PSD. In the XII Legislation, as it is known, the text approved, based on the initiative of the PSD and the CDS, and that the PCP voted favourably, was declared unconstitutional. The PSD and the CDS did not accept to expel the unconstitutionalities and in 2015 rejecting initiatives of the PCP and BE, which sought to solve these problems, decided to approve a text, deliberately and grossly unconstitutional, leading to the new declaration of unconstitutionality, entirely desired by the proposers. It was against this fraud that the CFP voted. contrary to what Mr. Carlos Peixoto said earlier, the vote against the PCP had nothing to do with management or half-management, for the simple reason that in March 2015 the PSD and CDS were still in the government and would only fall into the October elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u56	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u57	The CFP refused to deal with fraud: to pretend that it intended to criminalize illegal enrichment, when it was intended to simply force a declaration of unconstitutionality. This was a rather similar fraud to the one we saw here yesterday, but this time in a more grotesque and hystrionic way. in this legislative process, the CFP reaffirms its conviction that the creation of an unjustified enrichment criminal type may be an element of great importance for the prevention and detection of corruption crimes and that it is possible to find a solution that is not violating principles and constitutional standards. We are open-minded in this debate with our proposal, but with sufficient openness to accept other solutions that may constitute a step forward in the direction we consider necessary. There is, however, another issue that cannot be left in the dark when discussing corruption, which is the huge scandal that is the use of arbitration, especially ad hoc arbitration, when it comes to settling contractual disputes of many million euros, involving the State and private interests. It is not tolerable that emerging disputes of public-private partnerships or public contracts involving millionaires in which private interests are carefully guarded are decided by referees who are not known, with which criterion they are appointed, how much they gain, or what interests they defend in their professional activities, through decisions whose grounds are not even known.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u58	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u59	The only thing we know is that the State, i.e. the taxpayers and the public interest, is always losing and are condemned in vociful compensation to the private economic groups involved, for decisions that there is no recourse to the only courts worthy of that name. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Much more would be said about the various initiatives under discussion today. On those of the Government, it is important to say that we welcome some proposals, but we have very serious reservations about others, particularly those concerning the introduction of bargaining mechanisms in criminal proceedings, to the detriment of the application of a basic principle of the rule of law, which is the principle of legality. We are in this debate with an open and constructive spirit: without demagogy, without giving in to juridical populisms and without aligning with the scream that Portugal is a country of corrupt. Corruption should be combated on the basis of facts rather than on the basis of perceptions made on social networks, of media sensationalism that reproduces them or a political action concerned about the foam of the days. Criminal laws are too serious to be transformed into propaganda leaflets by those who intend to transform the discourse on justice into a snake's bath sale. For this, they do not have the CFP, but to seriously debate better solutions to prevent and combat corruption and economic and financial crime they can certainly count on the CFP — today as always. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u60	You have the floor to present the draft of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A strategy against corruption, to be taken seriously, must place in its centre the detection of capital increases without apparent justification. Criminalizing unjustified enrichment is an essential element of this fight. There is a path made in Portugal and the worst we could do here, and now it would be to ignore it and not learn the lessons that he taught us. I will highlight two of these most important lessons. The first is that this cannot be an instrument against constitutional order and that this fight will only be won if we do so with the support of the Constitution of the Republic. The Constitutional Court, twice, was called upon to pronounce itself on draft criminalization of illicit enrichment and did what it had to do: it affirmed the indestructible primacy of presumption of innocence and demanded the definition of a legal good of superior value that legitimates appropriate adjustments of that presumption in very special cases. It is in this field that any serious project has to be located. Anyone who wants to seriously criminalize unjustified enrichment does not perform mere exercises of inflamed rhetoric and, above all, does not present projects that know how to be voted out of mere projects and never become law. The second lesson is that, in this way, there have always been forces that have kept for the details their will to empty effectively the proclamations of principle in favour of criminalization. This happened several times in the past and it happens again now. Projects that stipulate the obligation of prior notification, so that there may be a crime of concealment of wealth, take out that window what entered through the door of criminalization. Those who present them well know that, of course, in the face of hidden money, there will never be notification and, therefore, there will never be crime. The Left Block has always been committed to criminalizing the unjustified enrichment that does not violate the Constitution and that enables effective gains in the capacity of criminal investigation bodies to act, to guarantee the primacy of transparency and to combat corruption. The essential of the project of the Left Block that I present here today is easily stated. The Left Block proposes that the law of the 2019 declaration obligations should, in parallel with the duty to declare income and assets, give rise to a duty to justify the particularly relevant capital increases that occur in the performance of the office and during a later period, legally stipulated, being the omission of declaration and justification of those increases, with the intention of concealing, punished with imprisonment for a period of five years, the same penalty as for the crime of tax fraud. This is therefore a project that aims to effectively punish the intentional concealment of wealth acquired during the period of exercise of political and high public positions, regardless of the law or the illegality of this acquisition. In fact, those who hold these positions are required, rather than any other citizen, to describe not only the incomes taken in this context and the elements of their assets, but also to identify the facts generating relevant increases in that heritage. And this requirement should be extended to the promises of future heritage advantages and to services and other high economic value liberalities. That's all, and only that, is what is enshrined in the bill of the Left Block. This is a very important step—no more, no less than that—to fight for a more transparent and less vulnerable public life to the toxic power of corruption. Without traps in detail, nor degeneration in principles, the Left Block here is, in particular, fighting against the concealment of wealth and what unlawfully can motivate that concealment. For our part, we will not excuse any effort for a large majority to join around this objective, because, we insist, there is no serious strategy to combat corruption without criminalization of unjustified enrichment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u62	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Manuel Pureza, who would like to debate seriously the subject of corruption must be prepared for the huge probability of not being heard. The happy environment for populists is installed. Unfortunately, it is not possible to explain that the biggest problem of Portuguese democracy is not corruption, because we are living in times when the perception of the fact replaces the fact, from the very beginning on the media agenda. Do we count on the Left Block to resist the perception that politicians are all corrupt whores? Do we count on the Left Block not to make them believe that these diplomas are a remedy to combat all corruption? We count on the Left Block to get out of the media mud and get into a real discussion? On Wednesday, the PSD spoke in « having the face washed ». For PS, there are no « washed faces » and « dirty faces », there are democratic parliamentary groups and within them those that resist media pressure... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and that they do not fail to state that the Portuguese legal framework, in the fight against corruption, is recognised as good. The PS is willing to speak of brands, which have already been mentioned here, such as the breaking of bank and tax secrecy in the investigation, investigation and trial of several crimes, including passive corruption, money laundering and money laundering, the possibility of controlling bank accounts by the judge's office, the mechanism of loss and arrest of property for the State, the creation of the concept of politically exposed persons, among other aspects that have already been mentioned here. The law can certainly be improved, but we are not here to enter moral contests of "washed faces", giving in to populism that kills the Republic. We count on the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u64	I have the floor to answer Mr José Manuel Pureza from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u65	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Moreira, thank you very much for the questions you have raised. There is clearly an area of important convergence in the denunciation of strategies for shaping public perceptions that seek to cast mud over democracy with the pretext of corruption, or any other pretext, and which no longer intend to make democracy vulnerable, to vulnerable those who assume political responsibilities in a clean way, in a way that honors the Republic. So, of course, all of this makes different fields. And the honourable Member knows exactly what the field of the Left Block is on in this matter. That is why, Mrs Deputies, I would like to tell you that I can only understand as rhetorical the questions you asked about whether the Socialist Party or the « count» — I did not understand exactly who is the subject of the « count» — could count on the Left Block. The Socialist Party, the country, the honourable Member know well that they can count on the Left Block, as they have always counted to date, to combat, in a serious, responsible and determined way, the phenomena of corruption and create, through laws and through practices, concrete ways to act in this matter. Therefore, your questions, Mrs Deputy, can only be rhetorical. And I understand that this is the case, because when a political intervention is intended to be made in the form of a question, a question mark must be put at any time. That is what the honourable Member has done, but we — the honourable Member knows - are on the side of those who really want to fight corruption. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u66	Mr Jorge Lacão of the PS Parliamentary Group now has the floor to present the Socialist Party bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the context of a debate in which so many matters are intertwined, making it difficult, by contradiction, to discern the essential aspects and the relative merit of the various initiatives presented, I will try, by the most synthetic way of being able, to state the political and legislative aspects that I consider most relevant in the matter: the extension of the declarative obligations of the holders of political positions, high public positions and the criminal consequences of non-compliance of these declaratory duties. I do so, of course, on the basis of the PS bill that meets me to present. I must, however, start by drawing attention that today is not the day when Parliament will invent the wheel on a subject that has long been debated and for which, essentially, a response has been found in the context of Law No 52 / 2019, around the ethical-normative requirements of transparency that are impeding on the political leaders and other high-ranking states. In fact, the answer is only possible because of the change in the composition of the Assembly of the Republic, because under the aegis of the former PSD / CDS majority, what happened was a painful baldness of bad solutions, grossly unconstitutional, as the Constitutional Court declared in successive judgments. And that was because, insensitive to the civilizational acquisition of the presumption of innocence and the prohibition of the reversal of the burden of proof in criminal law, the parties on the right have done nothing but put a stick on the wheel of possible reform, which in 2019 would finally have to be achieved, largely on the basis of the PS proposals, persistently defended over the years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These proposals are now a letter of law, and it is important to place them so that it can be understood that the opening of open doors can be an attractive exercise for demagogues, but it will not in any way be a minimally useful contribution to the cause of rigor and truth. The cause of rigor and truth requires that it be assumed that there is already criminal foresight today, both for the omission of the statement of income and wealth, and for the punishment of the falsehood of those declarations. But the cause of rigor and truth also requires that it be said that the degree of requirement placed in the forecast of declaratory duties has never been as far as now, since its scope has been extended to the decision makers of the large-scale State, from the leaders of the Public Administration to the officials of institutions and regulatory entities, passing by the managers of public undertakings and ending up in the judicial magistrates themselves and the Public Ministry. The cause of rigor and truth also requires that the list of declaratory duties has become extensible to many aspects of heritage life, not foreseen in the past, such as those mentioned: the mention of individual inheritances; the heritage elements of not only ownership, but also owner, owner, manager, convenience or renter, by themselves or by interpost person, in the country or abroad; and debts incurred not only in the presence of legal persons, but also in the presence of natural persons. Thus, to a point where the principle of transparency has never been as dense as it is today, in a palette of declarative obligations in which not only those relating to income and heritage, but also those relating to a strict system of impediments and incompatibilities, a new issue was raised as to the difficulties of proof in violating these duties. Without exaggerating the importance that we attach to the new Transparency Entity, with the primary task of monitoring the declarations due and whose delay in constitution cannot pass without a great apprehension repair, we did not, on our part, cease to be sensitive to the allegations made and to manifest ourselves available to take a further step towards improving the legal regime already established under Law No 52 / 2019. This step will mean, in the event of approval, an increase in the criminal framework of the crimes of qualified disobedience and intentional concealment of heritage and the consecration that the property variations subject to the declaration must identify the facts justifying them. This, in addition to clarifying that failure to comply with the rules on offers and hospitality may incur the agent in the crime of undue receipt of advantage, in general terms. This is our contribution to the improvement of the current regime, which is also based on the possibility of a tax increase of up to 80 % of the tax material assessed and not duly justified before the Tax Authority. Here, yes, accepting, in the face of external signs of wealth and methods of indirect taxation, the reversal of the burden of proof, because the guarantees of personal rights are not intended to protect the money obtained without a demonstration of legitimacy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in conclusion, I can say that the draft law submitted by the PS does not represent any solution of rupture with the legal regime already in force, but rather a constructive contribution to its improvement in an evolutionary line of coherence and commitment to the objectives of rigor and transparency in political and democratic life. from there our availability for the improvements that, in the field of expertise, are justified. therefore, however, the choice not to include diffuse formulation options, compromising criminal legality, in the configuration of the legal types of crime. But from there too, the option not to sell cats per hare with respect to the proposed innovations, such as that of the minimalist PSD project that, by the way, regrettably of their inconsistencies in the past, or now distinguish itself in the creation of the duty of the supervisory entity to communicate the irregularities detected to the Public Prosecutor's Office. It happens that this is already a related liability of the Transparency Entity, in accordance with the law, so the proposal-placebo of the PSD is reduced by redundancy to nothing. On the other hand, knowing that the holders of political and high-level public positions are required, by the nature of their duties, special responsibilities before society, does not seem necessary, appropriate and proportionate, as others consider, to extend the same declaratory duties and criminal sanctions arising there from the common public, already subject to important tax rules. So little encourages us the purpose, that in some sectors of opinion can gain paranoid dimension, to make the political protagonists the scapegoats of all frustrations and targets to slaughter under any tip of suspicion or insinuation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have a political understanding of the requirement that we must defend the dignity of the functions of the State on the basis of the probity required to those who dedicate themselves to the causes of all, but we do not align ourselves in the course of persecution with which certain greedy cats wish to criminalize politics, from outside or within it, treating opponents as enemies to strike and legitimate divergences as manifestations of lawlessness. That is why we will strive to compete for a positive outcome of this legislative process, aiming at the good of transparency, but rejecting the pharisaism of self-flashing and the normalization of suspicion as anathema over all and each one, which only competes to degrade the authority of the institutions, of democracy, and only serves to feed the disruptive rhetoric of its detractors. We are concerned about improving the quality of the rule of law. It is a simple purpose, but for those who truly believe in democracy and abhor demagogy, it is even a purpose that is worth pursuing with seriousness and determination. And now, with enough pedagogy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u68	I have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mr Nelson Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a need for a clear shift in the paradigm established by the weak fight against corruption. We must look at international indicators and be serious about their assessment and implementation in the reforms that the country lacks in the field of justice. If we want to combat abstention, if we want people to abandon the populisms of empty demagogues, then we must take the step and take responsibility for regaining, with merit, the country's confidence. It is in this spirit that the NAP presents two proposals today to contribute to the fight against these serious events, including an effective proposal to combat illicit enrichment, which ensures that the concealment of wealth does not in fact compensate, and at the same time the creation of mechanisms to protect complainants. The OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), the Council of Europe or the European Parliament do not hesitate to promote this fundamental role of the complainants in safeguarding the public interest when they exercise the civic duty of the complaint. Because that is what we are talking about today, safeguarding the public interest. If there were no complainants, our country would not, for example, have recovered EUR 9 million in the Malta Files case. If there were no complaints from the « guardian of the Tagus », Arlindo Marques, to whom we all owe our thanks, Celtejo could continue to exceed the legal limits of control of the effluents in the Tile by committing absolute environmental atrocities. Parliament cannot stand still when our country loses to corruption about €34 000 per minute, 8, 5 % of GDP (gross domestic product) each year. Parliament cannot stand still when, in a decade, the authorities have recorded about 82 000 environmental crimes and only 6 % of these cases have been brought to trial. Parliament cannot stand still when environmental activists in Portugal — as we have seen, for example, in the Douro estuary — are intimidated by large pollutant companies or public entities with legal actions in the form of SLAP (strategic lawsuit against public participation) which only want to prohibit their action. For this reason, the NAP brings the discussion to a proposal for a complainant's protection status that does not limit itself to an aesthetic exercise and that seeks to go further than the complainant's protection directive has. This Directive aims to ensure the protection of entities providing assistance to complainants, strengthening the protection of their identity, imposing the mandatory establishment of internal complaints channels, prohibiting any form of retaliation or providing for measures to support complainants. The NAP initiative ensures all this, but goes further. We go further when we want the complainant's status to apply to all violations of legislation, whether European or national, or to all cases of damage to the public interest without any areas free of complaint. We have therefore fled to the narrowness of the directive which only refers to European legislation and which leaves the complainants unprotected in matters of security and defence, which, when taken into account, makes it a hand full of nothing. We go further when we want the complainant's status to ensure the protection of all complainants, whether or not they have a working relationship with the reporting entity. As the directive is, for example, we will not be able to count on the legal protection of Arlindo Marques against the retaliations that it was targeted. In recognition of this, the NAP proposes a broad concept of complainants closely following the recommendations of the European Parliament and establishes in the national legal order the concept of complainants contained in the United Nations Convention against Corruption. We go further when we want the obligation to create internal channels of complaint in the authorities, instead of, as the directive does, leaving out of this obligation 38 % of the municipalities and the entire social sector, cautioning that children or older people are protected in social institutions. To ignore the warnings of the Council for the Prevention of Corruption, which also tells us that these are two sectors very exposed to the risks of corruption, is not to ensure the defence of the public interest. Finally, we go further when we want our country, following the recommendations of the OECD and the excellent examples of Australia, some states in the United States of America and some Canadian provinces, to have true anti-SLAPP legislation enshrined in its complainant status. For this reason, the NAP ensures that before an SLAP action the complainants may legitimately request their filing and, of course, that the entities making use of this intimidation file have to pay a fine, to reimburse the costs to which the complainant has been obliged, to compensate the damages suffered by the opposite party and that they are excluded for three years from any kind of public support or public procurement procedure. The status of the complainant proposed by the NAP is guided by the international standard of reference and best practices in this area. We are available to, in the specialty, try to bridge with other projects under discussion in order to ensure the best solution for the protection of complainants in our country. Thus, interest and public record are protected. Thus, active citizenship is protected. That is how democracy is protected. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u70	Let us pause here, because there is a ritual to let the honourable Member who has just spoken feel that the next Member will be able to begin his intervention. [[Pause.]] Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I have a time which would always be scarce for the discussion of more than 20 proposals from the Government and the various parties, five of them in particular from the CDS-PP, will understand that I focus, in this intervention, especially on the presentation of our proposals. First of all, to highlight the relevance and importance of the topic. Corruption is not just something negative, something harmful; it is, in fact, much more than that. Corruption is a threat to the public interest, it is a threat to the common good of our society, it is something that undermines confidence in our democratic institutions and, from this point of view, challenges democracy itself. In Portugal, we should also not ignore that the problem exists, it is real and that when in the first and most important institutions of the country - such as the government, with a prime minister involved, accused and tried in a process of corruption, or in the most important authorities of the country, including that of capital - we have such processes, it is appropriate that Parliament and society do not ignore it. Taking a sentence said here recently, I would say that no one should be automatically accused, but this is not a problem of washed faces or dirty faces; it is, above all, a problem of clean hands and of creating the conditions for such clean hands to exist. So, with regard to our initiatives, what do we propose? We propose — and we are not the only ones — an increase in penalties for these crimes. To give an example: passive corruption passes from two to eight years for a penalty of six to twelve years and the activity of two to five years for a penalty of five to ten years. This is a political signal from Parliament and from the legislative power to respond to corruption, obviously seeking an essential thing: to maintain balance between the various criminal frameworks, particularly between corruption crimes and, for example, blood crimes. Secondly, we created a criminal guy. Having the PSD and the CDS twice tried to criminalize illicit enrichment, and having been plunged into the Constitutional Court, we now seek a solution which is simultaneously declarative, as do several parliamentary groups, that is, based on the obligation to declare, but that, at the same time, take account of the obligations of exclusivity of those who are obliged to it and that cannot, obviously, as we have also seen in our country, be exercising, for example, a minister's office and then have another hidden income, whether it is in what form it is. Therefore, we propose this typification, and of course we propose it not only to the holders of political positions, but also to the magistrates, whether the judiciary, or the judiciary of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Thirdly, we are trying to answer the question of prescription and deadlines for prescription. in this matter, there is a possible solution. The Government does not bring us anything about illicit enrichment, and apparently it has entrusted this matter to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. The Socialist Party, as has been said here, has always been against, and now, apparently for tactical reasons, has become in favour. The Government is proposing a change in the time limits for the prescription. We propose a different solution. What do we propose? We propose that when a crime is committed within the scope and by virtue of the exercise of a mandate it is systematically considered as a continuing crime and that, in any event, it is the last act practised in the context of that crime and not the first to define the limitation period, avoiding situations we have recently known. Fourthly, in terms of penalties, we propose that the rule of Article 50. the, recommendation, suggestion of application, whenever possible, of the penalty suspension measure in cases up to five years, we propose that this rule should not apply to crimes of corruption. In other words, in these cases, the judge, obviously in the exercise of his power, should, in principle, apply effective imprisonment and not suspension of the sentence. Fifthly, for those convicted — and obviously only for those convicted, it would be unthinkable otherwise — we propose that, in addition to the loss of office, there should be an inhibition of the exercise of public office for a period of ten years, applying the same, too, to the violation of the duties of declaration of income. On the other hand, we also seek, with these proposals, that what has been much discussed and talked about in Portuguese society, a certain promiscuity between judiciary and politics, between judicial and political power, ending, prohibiting the exercise of political activities to which the judiciary is working, thus not being a member of the government or candidate for political office and, in addition, a question that has also been discussed in Portuguese society, which did not fall to the government the indication, the authorization of judges to participate in positions in international organizations, and this is solely to their superior councils. On the other hand, in seventh place, we propose that judges can only accept committees of a judicial nature and no longer perform functions as advisers or consultants, either with the Government, either in the Presidency of the Republic or in the Assembly of the Republic. These are proposals that obviously aim to end, end, end, end this idea of promiscuity. We also propose that there be strict rules in this same movement and that they do not make the exercise of periods without maturity serve for this very purpose. On the other hand, we propose and defend the creation of the statute of regret. when we propose the statute of regret we do not propose that there be such a barge of penalties, or negotiation of penalties. That is not our idea, nor is it our intention, that, in any case, it would alter the framework and model of our criminal system, which would somehow turn to the American or Anglo-Saxon model in general, rather than the model that we currently have. What we propose is that, from the outset at the investigation stage, this sorry status may be defined, that such protection exists and that, of course, the premium duty applies, either in some cases with exemption or a reduction in the applicable penalty. Finally — and this is a European matter, a relevant matter, which other parties also propose — we propose that the complainant be consecrated, which, in our view, should be applied to those who, being within an organization and having knowledge of the practice of crimes, can report them and can therefore be protected, and not to those who practice crimes. from our point of view, this is a serious way of discussing this issue, open to the analysis and discussion of all other proposals from other parties, facing the problem in front, with determination and without any kind of tibia. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u72	For an intervention, Mrs Mónica Quintela, from the PSD, has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Justice, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We are debating vital issues for the rule of law, for democracy and for Portuguese. The importance of the fight against corruption is not compatible with ineffective demagogy and attacks of the most basic constitutionally enshrined principles and requires concrete and serious measures to deduce this cancer that undermines and corrupts society. Corruption is said to be a victimless crime. It's not true, we're all victims! It is called corruption and related crime « white collar crimes », when it should be called « dirty collar crimes », so that the strong social disapproval is well felt. The PSD has been in the front line of this fight and has presented three legislative initiatives aimed at changing the Criminal Code and Passive Legislation and the Code of Criminal Procedure. As regards substantive law, it proposes several measures of which I would like to stress, in summary, the improvement of the existing premium law, without ever disbursing in the awarded infringement, proposed by the Government. It is proposed to extend the criminal frameworks applicable to this crime, to pay attention to its seriousness and to the enormous impact on the lives of citizens and on public finances. The deadlines for the limitation of the criminal procedure for 15 years are extended, the longer period laid down in our Criminal Code. Changes are introduced to the conditional freedom scheme, indexing it to the effective social resocialization of the agent. This amendment aims to force the ever-dated commitment of the political power and society to the fulfilment of the purpose of the penalties, reintegrating the convicted person. The concept of civil servant is to resolve the doubts in case law and doctrine, as well as the regime of the criminal liability of the public and their respective compliance or compliance programmes. It is also urgent to introduce measures in adjective law, procedural law, with a view to speeding up proceedings and the effectiveness of procedures, without, however, ever reducing the rights and guarantees of defence and the right to a fair, fair and equitable process. The biggest delays are in the investigation phase, requiring that, among other measures, the statements provided should be recorded, which will free the criminal police from long hours of useless dating, times which are very precise for criminal investigation. It is also necessary to speed up compliance with precautionary and rogatory letters and to make changes to the rules of connection and separation of processes, avoiding the undesirable and ingesible mega-processes. Several measures are also proposed to combat the slowness and improvement of the stages of instruction, trial and reinforcement of the guarantees of appeal. The PSD presents itself in this debate with robust and effective initiatives in contrast to some government proposals that show well the de-investment in an area of fundamental sovereignty that is justice. As I am sure there are consistent issues in the PSD and government proposals, from now on to the document presented by the PSD in 2018, there are others where the divergence is notorious. The government had all the time to present the National Strategy for Combating Corruption, with all the means at its disposal. And what do you propose to the Portuguese? A sofa investigation and the traffic in indulgences, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! That is, the award-winning, pure and harsh delation, and the bargaining of sentences, with the agent contributing to their responsibility or to the proof of the responsibility of others, not being right, what has already been said here today about the origins and virtues of these penalty agreements. The perverse effects of these practices are widely known and are directly associated with the marketing of justice and judicial error. Just see that for the prevaricators crime is starting to make up for it. They can always « throw the mud to the wall », because the outcome will not entail great risks. If they're not discovered, great! If they are, they always have the opportunity to negotiate an advantageous agreement and, along the way, denounce some who are even uncomfortable, and the result is quite compensatory. As the Government has not invested in justice—I remind you that only in the Public Prosecutor's Office are more than 266 prosecutors and that many are on the way to reform—there is a lack of human and technical resources, providing us with a multitude of unacceptable changes called 'promoting the speedy and efficient resolution of the criminal process' and that they distort our criminal law and judicial practice, introducing anomalies, in clear violation of the structural principles of our criminal process, of accusatory structure, with roots strongly signed in instruments of international law on the protection of human rights and which are the matrix of our Basic Law. We see the limitation of five witnesses by fact, and even if it is indicated in the evidentiary requirements, the matter to which the witnesses will respond. It should be noted that we are talking about criminal law, the primacy of the triptistic guarantee of the presumption of innocence, of dubious misdemeanour, of the right to silence and not to self-incrimination. [[PSD applause.]] The Government proposes to hold a previous hearing, Mrs and Mrs. Members, in order to negotiate the agreement on the applicable penalty, with the intervention of the judge, the judge who is not prevented from carrying out the trial in the event of a breach of negotiations, of 'bad negotiations' among all the speakers. The Government has the wrong understanding that the impartiality of the judge is not compromised by the fact that he has participated, as a part, in negotiations with the defendant and the Public Prosecutor's Office and has not reached agreement. The Government also proposes that sentences for crimes punishable by imprisonment should not exceed five years—Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, five years in jail is a long time! — may be made as if the summary proceedings were concerned, taking into account the grounds for the sentences to ensure that citizens can examine the course of the formation of the judge's conviction in the advancement of the decision and in order to safeguard the right to appeal. It is good to see that these proposals are not to combat corruption, but to clean courts at the expense of citizens' lives, and in a fast and cheap way. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u74	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of background noise and it seems to me that the issue is important enough to be careful. Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. The lightness with which justice is intended to be administered and the disrespect that some of the proposals show towards the citizens are already rooted in this government, as well as the fascination with figures used in other places and with the worst results that are known and that remind the foreign disillusionment of the ineffable Damaso Salcede, the Maias. I conclude by saying that the PSD is still available to work with seriousness and commitment to measures to combat corruption and to improve the legal order, considering, as I have always said, reform of justice as a priority that cannot continue to be postponed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u76	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves wrote to ask for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Monica Quintela, I would like to thank you for the intervention you have just made, explaining and noting the package presented by the Social Democratic Party. Finally, the point is not so much of a military strategy — this will be the vote of the National Defence Bases Act, right now, but it is curious that the honourable Member will make the reading of it in the front line at the end. It is because it is possible and I think that the PSD has been able to present, in this context, ideas that, being original, are not good and ideas that, being original, are not original, are also not good and therefore can make a square of the difficult circle, in this same analogy, but what I wanted to address was, in essence, the question about how the PSD views it, because apparently a wide-ranging national discussion with the judicial operators, which takes place over a very long period of time, curiously, has not ceased to be criticized by the PSD for taking a long time. In other words, the process of listening to the community to which these standards are addressed, the operators who will apply them, apparently at a certain time, when necessary, are criticized for taking a long time, but then the result of this and the proposals resulting from it are ignored and which translate an in-depth discussion with interaction of the academy, with the interaction of the judicial operators, which point to the need for many of the measures contained in the package presented by the Government as key operational elements for the work to be carried out. And what the honourable Member does in this speech is, in fact, the accitiation of fears, the fears that the proposals presented may be the collapse of the building of the democratic rule of law, ignoring — and here, with all due respect, I would say that intentionally ignoring the letter of the law itself, which seeks, with all caution, to ensure that there will not be, in these models proposed, risks to the rule of law. on the part of the Government and the Socialist Party there will certainly be no doubt at any time to ensure that the fundamental principles of criminal proceedings will be safeguarded at the end of the adoption of these measures. And if there are doubts, of course there is complete availability to clarify them in the field of specialty, ensuring that there is no margin for the idea of a distortion of the functioning of our criminal process. But I'm setting an example. The honourable Member, for a few moments now, with regard to the conclusion of the agreements, has raised here an insurmountable, insurmountable, insurmountable gap which may call into question the normative building, but the rules are clear, in particular - for example - to say that, as an example, we will have the opportunity to deepen during the debate - when it is very clear in the law that the confirmation of the facts cannot be used as evidence in cases where the agreement has failed. That is to say, this idea that you open your behavior and that suddenly everything is shattered by the fact that you admit the principle that you can try this way is not right with what is presented in the law, because the law, the one that has been handed over, the one that is actually being discussed, the one we are reading says exactly the opposite. We know that it is difficult to oppose—it has also called us and it will call us at another time—but we cannot have one thing on Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays and another on Thursdays, Fridays and Sundays. Just as we do not want to present ourselves in a debate saying 'good, we were pioneers, because we presented the first proposals for illicit enrichment', because they were two leaders of the Constitutional Court and, in the previous legislature, there was no proposal from the PSD on what actually entered the law, through declarative obligations, and that was the way to ensure it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And now we are, in fact, acknowledging, as most of the parties have made with the proposals they have put forward, that what we have adopted in the past legislature, through the declarative obligations, is the basis of the guarantee that the concealment of heritage can be prevented, but in accordance with the rule of democratic law. Welcome to the debate. We hope that, in part of the specialty, it will be more constructive and informed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u78	In reply, Mrs Monica Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u79	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I am grateful for the questions you raised, but you did not ask great questions, it was more proclamational. I begin by taking a phrase that you said: 'The confession cannot be used as proof in case the agreement has failed'. The honourable Member has an excellent sense of humor! Notice: the defendant is led to make a confession and then they will make the trial. Where is the principle of investigation? Where is the principle of legality? Where is that all, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u81	Go to court to make a trial with a defendant who confessed! Open... [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Deputy, go to the ground! Welcome to the real world! It's just that it's so cute at the academy and we'll be here talking... let's go to the ground! [[PSD applause.]] Let's get to the ground, let's see how things work! The honourable Member also said « the PS will do, the PS will...». Well, I know there has been a great interference and a great violation of the principles of separation of powers. The judges come here to present proposals, they go to the governments, there have been several things, but, as I know, the PS, in fact, despite the « colonization» he has made, does not go to the court to apply the law. And it's opening a huge door! Recently Mrs Cláudia Santos, on behalf of Mr Peixoto, said that the origin of the agreements was being confused. We know the origin of the agreements. They originated in the 1970s, in Germany, and it was written here in 2011 by Prof. Figueiredo Dias, a test on the sentences agreements, at the request of judges of the Court of Ponta Delgada, who were even my fellow lecturers. But what is happening in the German court, with all the doctrine against it, originates in the plea bargain of the United States, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. We know exactly what are the reasons and what is the origin of this, with all the judicial error. It is known what is happening in the German courts, because what is being done here is the import of an Anglo-Saxon figure principle, which directly lands in Roman-German legal systems which have a completely different tradition and which do not have what other systems have, for example, magistrates who are elected as politicians and who therefore have to have a high rate of effectiveness, sacrificing the presumption of innocence and the principle of legality, because what matters is the rate of condemnation. But the judicial error counts a lot, and if this does not bother you, I am very upset and the PSD, with a personalist and humanist principle, really bothers you. [[PSD applause.]] I hope that the honourable Member will be clarified on the issues you have raised and that they have been more declarations of intent. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u82	For the second round, we have the inscription of Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u83	Mr President, Minister for Justice, this reform came late and was badly organized. The Minister said today to this Parliament that only by courtesy did she not legislate on illicit enrichment. If that wasn't tragic, it would be at least comical. And what we want to say about this is that the government has failed in the main objective of its mission, as it has failed in its impediments, because the Minister knows very well what is happening between ministers who are going to companies that have protected and who should be prevented from doing so for a long time. The Portuguese don't understand that someone's got a pasta and that two months later they're working on companies in this area. But today it was also the day for Mrs. Minister, with courage and firmness, to say why they are attached to her office to be placed in the Public Prosecutor's Office, particularly in the Department of Central Research and Criminal Action. And then the PS says he's not trying to control justice. It's not a good way, Minister. And the magistrates' roop...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u84	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u85	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, the magistrates' road between the Government and the Public Prosecutor should also be part of this strategy today, as a transparent criterion for the separation of powers between government, justice and judicial operators.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u86	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Cancela Moura, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u87	Mr President, Mrs. Minister for Justice, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The criminalization of illegal or unjustified enrichment is discussed 15 years ago and, after five attempts and two leads in the Constitutional Court, we must recognize that we continue to miss the country. To discuss and vote, still this week, an unconstitutional proposal, instead of helping, has become more confused. The common citizen does not know what we are talking about, he does not know the legislative technique, he does not know the grounds of the Constitutional Court, but he is certain: that Members cannot or do not want to pass a law to punish those who, in the exercise of public functions, legally enriches. Even newspaper boxes are taxing, leaving the discussion by the 'foam of days' : Parliament rejected the proposal to criminalise illicit enrichment, for example. We therefore have an obligation to give a signal to the country: fewer declarations of intention and more concrete actions. In 2007, in 2009, in 2012, successively and persistently, the PSD presented initiatives to criminalize this type of conduct. In contrast, in May 2018, the President of the Assembly of the Republic stated in the PS conclave that « the policy of prevention and combating corruption is in PS’s DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) », insurging against the use of judicial processes for the criminalization of policies. Also last April, a Member of the Socialist Party, denying John Cravinho, guarantees that “the PS is neither afraid nor ashamed when the subject is the fight against corruption” and that “the socialists are of calm consciousness, because for decades virtually all legislation against corruption has been approved by the hand and by the hand of the PS.” But it is also true that it took a former Prime Minister, who was by chance the PS, to be accused of corruption, in a judicial process that left the country between outrage and horror, so that the PS, for the first time, would present a legislative initiative on illicit enrichment, also not to remain solitary. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Deputy Protests Urban Constance of Sousa.]] Actually, the PS has always voted against all initiatives. Until the PCP and the Block, for example, the effect of the contagion of management, voted against in 2015. And after several years in which it was government, in the last six years, the PS has never presented any alternative to the veto of the Constitutional Court. Conclusion: while some talk, others do. This illegal crime or the fight against corruption must neither have ideology nor side nor color. The sense that the country expects from us is not the sense of vote, the sense that awaits us is the sense of responsibility. Punishing effectively the conduct of those who, in the exercise of public office, hide property and incomes that they were obliged to declare for the duty of transparency, may not be a measure neither on the right, nor on the left, but a patriotic obligation that is incumbent upon all of us. It is proven that the PSD has more authority and increased legitimacy. But we still want to set an example in what we demand of others. Our project is therefore a serious and committed contribution, like our previous initiatives, to combating this reality. A proposal as prudent as pedagogical that clearly departs from the rules which have been declared unconstitutional, in particular the presumption of innocence, the burden of proof and the definition of the legal good to be protected; introduces a deterrent element that distinguishes it from the others; imposes mandatory communication to the Public Prosecutor's Office, in the case of the public or political office holder to hide or not declare the origin of his property; and, finally, aggravates the criminal framework of the illegal from three to five years. We all, therefore, have no exception, an opportunity and an obligation to find a compromise solution. The country demands and deserves this from all of us. The challenge is to accompany us, in an open spirit, in order to pass a law with the necessary effectiveness which, once and for all, criminalizes the behaviour of those who, in public functions, excuse themselves to declare the origin of an unjustified capital increase, which is, in fact, an imperative of consciousness. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u88	They have signed up to request clarification from the honourable Members. Mr Constance Urbano de Sousa, of the PS, and Mr António Filipe of the PCP, to whom Mr Cancela Moura will respond together. To that end, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u89	Mr President, Mr Cancela Moura, my question is very simple. I would like to ask the honourable Member, who has just made an intervention as if the PSD were at the root of the solution we have now found, who has put forward a proposal that allowed the criminalization of the concealment of wealth, proposed it inserted into the transparency package that entered into force in 2019. In fact, this is a crime already envisaged today in our legal order and which is based on the proposal that the PSD is now bringing the debate. So my question is very simple: who did it? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u90	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u91	Mr President, Mr Cancela Moura, I use the figure of the request for clarification, as soon as I have the opportunity, to invite the honourable Member to correct two de facto errors in his speech and against which there are no arguments. The first de facto mistake: in 2007 the PSD voted against the criminalization of illicit enrichment proposed by the CFP. In 2009, the PSD also presented a bill on this matter, which joined the project that the PCP had already presented in this legislature, and we voted together. This was the first de facto error : in 2007 the PSD did not present any project and voted against the proposed PCP. The second de facto mistake: Mr President, the CFP has changed its way of voting because of such management. [[He's changed!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u92	Now, the PCP voted against the text approved by the PSD and the CDS which was grossly unconstitutional—and you knew! -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u93	Before, it wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u94	... in March 2015. I repeat, in March 2015, therefore, with the PSD / CDS government, which would fall only after the October elections. Well, the month of March is a few months before the month of October, Mr Deputy. Therefore, do not come here with germinations or half-managements, because what the CFP did not make was deal with a political fraud, which was the approval of an intentionally unconstitutional norm, to be rejected by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, Mr President, there are two de facto errors in your speech. In fact, its argument is contradicted by the chronology of the facts. But in fact, there are no arguments, Mr President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u95	To reply, Mr José Cancela Moura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have very little time, so I will try to answer synthetically. Mr António Filipe, it is true that in 2007 the CFP presented a legislative initiative, but the PSD also did so. And I want to tell you that in 2007 the CFP voted for us. Secondly, it is true that in 2015 — and may present the arguments you want — they voted against a PSD initiative on this matter. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] So out there, what matters is that you guys are portrayed. Finally, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, as you mentioned, I would like to remind you this: we have approved a law that makes a unanimity that serves zero, does not do any good. So, that or nothing, it's the same thing. Look, those who are truly interested in combating illicit enrichment cannot afford to give the country examples such as the nominations of Mário Centeno, Caldeira Cabral and Ana Paula Vitorino, nor can they have behaviours like what he had with the appointment of the European Prosecutor. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u97	Portugal, in 2020, has dropped three places in the Corruption Perception Index ( CPI ), we are below the European average levels. The Transparency Entity, created in 2019, does not exist—before, it was due to lack of money and now it is said to have collapsed by 2023 because the headquarters needs works and there are problems with the computer platform. These are examples that the country does not need to fight illicit enrichment and corruption. Finally, at the CRESAP ( Recruitment and Selection Committee for Public Administration ), which should serve to ensure the merit of candidates and the transparency of appointments, competitions begin to become desert due to the lack of candidates. The replacement regime, for the convenience of the Socialist Party, has blocked all competition rules. So, my friends, we're talking! And I strengthen that the PSD has increased legitimacy and authority in this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u98	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have time available, but we have no registrations, which means that we will be moving to the conclusion of the debate. [[Pause.]] After all, the inscriptions begin to appear. For an intervention, Mrs Marcia Passos, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u99	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs and Mrs Members : The Minister, three directives, three proposals for legislation — as it is required — one of which is delayed, because the directive to which it should have been transposed by 31 May 2021 and, in all, allow me to say, the government has been disorganized. Anxiety has been an enemy of perfection and there are many repairs to government initiatives. Protecting, Mrs Minister — and I am referring, in particular, to the proposed law on the protection of complainants — means assisting, defending, supporting. It is not enough to say that the complainants have the right to legal protection. What legal protection? What does that mean? It will certainly not be protection under the law of judicial support, because, if so, it would not be necessary to be here. The Directive itself then states that Member States may provide financial assistance and support measures, including psychological support, in judicial proceedings. Why didn't the government say this in the bill? Why are no concrete measures created? And what are these measures, Minister? Nothing is known. Does anyone believe that a worker will disclose violations of his knowledge in his professional activity if he is not protected? It would be an illusion to think otherwise. That is why, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD will present proposals for amendments to these initiatives and is available for, in particular, to make a deep reflection on these issues. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u100	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Cláudia Santos of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will refer to the proposals of the Government, which are many and are transversal, which implies choices and, therefore, will highlight two new and particularly relevant solutions, one in criminal law and the other in criminal procedural law. In criminal law, there will be a new accessory penalty, proposed in the election programme of the Socialist Party in 2019 and contained in the Programme of this Government, which provides that public agents convicted of corruption may be sentenced in an accessory penalty that will prevent them from being appointed or elected for public office for a period of up to 10 years. This is a very severe measure, oriented towards the protection of the credibility of our democracy and our institutions. It was not in the PSD electoral program, but it is now in the project that presented two weeks ago, which can indicate a consensus at a nuclear point of the new model of combating corruption and can be good for our country. In the criminal proceedings, agreements on the applicable penalty should be emphasized, a significant development in the context of serious crime and an extension of consensus solutions which have been expanding in Portugal since 1987. This proposal has been highly criticised by some opposition, which calls it « negotiated criminal justice », but there are several misconceptions here. To understand why agreements on the applicable penalty are very different from the typically negotiated criminal justice of the Anglo-Saxon system we have to understand what they are. It is true that they want, in the first place, to ensure more speed and efficiency in the criminal process, which is what we all want, but on the other hand, they can contribute to better justice. I would like to point out that they intend to prevent the production of evidence from being dragged down in certain trials for many months or years. If the defence wishes to cooperate with the prosecution, the defendant may sign an agreement, always accompanied by his defender, and in that agreement he may recognize the facts for which he was accused. In order to be valid, this agreement must also be accompanied by the court and will result in the confirmation of the facts, which will lead to a reduction in the applicable penalty. Why is this solution not similar to the barganha model existing in the United States of America? Why is it so different? First, because the negotiation of guilt is not allowed. It is not possible, for example, that if there is evidence of a crime of serious corruption, a corruption for wrongful acts, you will negotiate the conviction for a less serious crime, such as the undue receipt of advantage. In the United States of America, it would be possible. But that judgment of opportunity of the Anglo-Saxon system is not admitted in our solution. No fault fictions are accepted, the process remains oriented towards the discovery of truth. Secondly, because the negotiation of the concrete penalty is not allowed either. the agreement does not result in the defendant being convicted in a seven-year prison sentence, for example, while in the United States of America that would be possible. But what will result from this agreement is only attenuation of the maximum penalty limit applicable. Third, the inspiring model of this solution is German law, whose penal code provides for this solution since 2009. In Germany, these agreements are the majority solution in more than 80 % of cases for the most serious economic-financial crime. If these agreements can be misused, do they arouse care? Of course, as much of the criminal procedural rules and, therefore, caution is needed, especially in cases of plurality of defendants, so that they are not used in an avid manner to admit awards. This is a red line that must not be surpassed, as the Socialist Party has always maintained. But these agreements may have great advantages, if they are applied well, as they should be — because they do not only contribute to faster justice, they can contribute to better, more participatory, more restorative and more democratic justice, which allows for greater reparation of the damage caused to society. I conclude by saying that one thing seems certain: the proposals of the Government that implement this strategy to combat corruption cannot, at the same time, be, under the penalty of contradiction, be accused of being harmless, because they remain below, and of being dangerous, because they go beyond. We have a very diverse, very ambitious set of future-oriented measures before us. And, as the letter of an extraordinary song reminds us, «the future is an astronaut we try to fly», and this national strategy has its eyes set on a better future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u102	We return to the situation in which we have time, but we have no registrations. [[Pause.]] Mr Luís Marques Guedes, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u103	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: In good time, it has been scheduled for today at the plenary session of the Assembly of the Republic, a matter relating to justice. Not being justice reform, corruption is certainly one of the most important aspects of the perception that citizens have in relation to the functioning and administration of justice. As has been said during the debate this morning, there are, in the proposals submitted by the Government — and which naturally and democratically motivated the presentation of a myriad of alternative proposals by the various political forces, which is to be welcomed — certainly aspects in which the Democratic Social Party looks, without surprise, because, as the Minister well knows, already in 2018 the Democratic Social Party had presented to the Government a rather comprehensive and comprehensive document for a comprehensive reform of justice in which corruption issues were also addressed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u105	Several of the proposals that the Government now submits to the Assembly of the Republic had already been made available by the Social Democratic Party at the time without success. I hope that this time there is some success, because the country actually demands that there be results in these matters. Madam Minister, what I cannot but say is that, as has already been said in this debate, there are very important issues on the issue of corruption that are absent from the Government's proposals. I am speaking, for example, of the scandal that is the manipulation in the distribution of proceedings in the courts. [[PSD applause.]] I am speaking, for example, of the impunity that fats with the laxism of research that leads to the prescription of processes, successively. I speak of impunity, for example, in the systematic violation of the secret of justice. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u106	I speak, for example, in the routine promiscuity and the rotating doors between the magistrates and the positions of political appointment. [[PSD applause.]] I speak for example—and this is particularly important, for all we have discussed about the diplomas of criminalization of declaratory concealment—of dragging feet into the effective creation of the Entity for Transparency. The attitude of the Government, after two years of the approval of the law by the Assembly of the Republic, is totally incomprehensible. Here you have arrived, Minister, I would only say the following: this debate was just a step in the legislative process that will continue in Parliament. from the Social Democratic Party, it has, as you know, since 2018, opened up for the compromise. I hope that, on the part of the Government, in addition to the normal and legitimate diatrics of the difference in opinions in democracy, there will also be this openness so that, not yet in the global reform of justice but in the area of combating corruption, we can take useful and effective steps, which have a proper and positive perception by the citizens. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u107	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this final stage of the debate, I just wanted to add two brief notes. The first note is to say the following: recently, Mrs Cláudia Santos, seeking to defend governmental diplomas in the field of premium law, said that if the defendant wanted to cooperate with the accusation, this could result in greater speed, etc. Mrs. Cláudia Santos, the problem is basically this: we're not talking about abstractions, are we? Oh, my God! That is to say, we are talking about situations in which, as the honourable Member knows very well, power relations that are established and objectives of each of the parties — statistical objectives, objectives of projection of an institutional image. All of this counts in this matter. Therefore, speaking of abstract models, as if they were chemically pure in their concrete application, is something that cannot be accepted. I well understand that the honourable Member refers to the need for great caution in the application, but I believe, quite frankly, that this need for caution stems from the very notion that we are dealing with a figure that has a huge potential for perversion to the criminal process. from there our reservation and I want to insist on that point. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The second point I wanted to talk about, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is basically about this: at an important stage of this debate, we are witnessing a dispute, especially between the Socialist Party and the PSD, about the past, to see who first arrived, who first presented the project, who voted against and in favour of the project. With all the frankness, in addition to this kind of championship that came first, the championship that you are arguing with each other, I think there is another championship, which is to know who most have avoided, throughout all this time, that the criminalization of unjustified enrichment was a fact in Portugal. This is a championship that everyone, of course, is seeing in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u109	You're right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u110	Finally, recently Mrs. Isabel Moreira asked me if we could count on the Left Block so I don't know what. What I wanted to say is that the essential question now is this: with whom can the country count that there is a law, with the forces and weaknesses that any law has, in this matter, that it is a determined law, a strict law, that is not emptied, through its details, of its fundamental purpose? That is the question that needs to be answered and we will hope that we can do so in the field of expertise. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u111	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, in many respects, the question is what will be the result of this same process. From that point of view, I would like to say, on behalf of the CDS-PP and at the conclusion of this debate, that we are available. In many cases, the proposals of the various parties are consistent, in other cases they are not, but we are willing to look at the proposals regardless of their origin, regardless of the bench that has presented them, in order to create a good law. However, we cannot fail to record, as it was said at first, that on central issues, which are those of the absence of declarative obligation, of the denial of goods or of illicit enrichment, the Government, as usual, said nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u113	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u114	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. The government did not say anything, as it did not present anything about the promiscuity between the judiciary and politics, the inhibition of political positions and the effective imprisonment in cases of corruption. We have to record that. We are available to discuss these proposals in the field of expertise.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u115	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now closing this debate. To that end, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government did not wish to end this debate without expressing publicly recognition to all those who, during this process, contributed to the preparation and presentation of this package of measures. Among these people, I wanted to point out Carolina Menéres Pimentel, a young judge of the Public Ministry, classified with « very good» in the first inspection, specialized in economic-financial crime, who, victim of the « air of time », was in the office of the Minister of Justice to support in the design of this project. Do as other judges have done over time, as Cunha Rodrigues helped Almeida Santos, as other magistrates have helped Carolina's grandfather, Minister Menéres Pimentel, at the time Minister of Justice, to build also the ways for justice that we have today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government has also put forward two proposed laws which transpose into the domestic legal order two directives: one which facilitates the use of financial and other information for the prevention, detection and suppression of certain criminal offences, and one that combats fraud and corruption of means of payment other than cash. These proposals are clearly transpositions in which the Government does not innovate, basically adapting them to the specificities of the country. With regard to the first proposal, the transposition aims to provide access to banking information to other entities with relevant functions in criminal investigation, in addition to those currently having it, i.e. the DPRK and the IFU ( Financial Information Unit ). Therefore, it is proposed to provide access to this information to the Judicial Police and the GRA ( Office for the Recovery of Assets ). In addition, the concept of « criminal offence » is extended to « serious criminal offence », to cover economic and financial crime. As regards the second proposal, basically, what is intended is to ensure the accountability of the public for the fraudulent use of payment instrument which is not in cash, stolen or stolen, appropriate or obtained illegally, thus breaking an omission that existed in our legal order. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to have clear debates about justice. The diagnoses have been done for a long time. What we cannot continue to watch with complacency is the absence of arguments and decisions, replaced by suspicious judgments and intent processes, focusing on problems. With this political stance, they will surely have many likes, many memories in the media, especially in the media that spread populism, but they are repeatedly failing in their mission. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Moreover, they do not contribute either to the dignity of the political system, which they hold, or to the realization of the common good. We need a serene reflection around what we can do today to make tomorrow closer to what we want. With the transposition of the Witness Protection Directive, the Whistleblowing Directive guarantees the protection of those who report an infringement based on information obtained in the context of their professional activity, regardless of the nature of this activity. The proposal covers any professional relationship, although mediated, in which the complainant's risk can be found to be subject to retaliation. On this subject, Mr. Members, in particular the honourable Member who called on me, it is important to bear in mind that the national legal system already has a number of witness protection regimes, particularly in the area of violent crime and organized crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u118	Nevertheless, there seems to be a strong convergence in the sense of the need to change legislation. That is what we want to debate, and that is what we should talk about. The lack of means is a cyclical problem, which is raised cyclically, above all, when there are no original answers. I would say that we are probably faced with a rhetoric that seems to want to be exempt from the compromise, which is a hypothesis that, in any case, I refuse to conceive. We do not debate or question the question of the means. What we say is that there can be no confusion between the two topics, which are separate, and today we have to discuss the proposals that the Government has put forward in legislative matters. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] The truth is that much of the proposals that the Democratic Social Party has put forward reproduce, some of them say, government proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I don't want to argue who got here first or who got here later. What I can say is that the 2018 proposals were clearly a hand full of nothing and that it was difficult to get anything out of there. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] As regards agreements on the applicable penalty, the PSD only did not agree because it clearly failed to understand the scope of the proposal. This instrument is, as has already been mentioned, used in Germany, used in Italy, is used in Spain and has constituted a virtuous way of dealing with the scourge of corruption and economic-financial crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u119	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u120	Obviously, there seems to me to be a clear misunderstanding here about what we are talking about. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Constitution of the Republic establishes a principle of separation and interdependence of the powers of the State and the institutions of the State must cooperate actively and loyally in order to achieve the public interest and, above all, to put into practice all that is useful for the common good. All measures aimed at speeding up the criminal proceedings in respect of the guarantees of the righteous should be welcomed to those who care so much about the state of criminal justice, but, on the contrary, what is seen is that every time a measure of simplification is presented, what we have comes up with is clearly a mistrust of those who apply the law, with respect to the judiciary. That's the basis, Mrs. Deputy. The Government hopes that this will no longer be a missed opportunity, that it will be possible to find consensus spaces for the fight that corruption demands at this crucial moment in national life. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : No more words, no more rhetoric, the country is tired and the government refuses to deal with these methods. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u121	We have thus reached the end of this item on our agenda. We now have votes and I would like to draw the attention of the ladies and gentlemen. Members who continue to apply the rule that does not allow more than 116 Members to be permanently in the plenary at any time. Therefore, as I see here that there are at least 138 Members, I would ask the respective leaders of the parliamentary groups to act to ensure that each parliamentary group takes into account the number of Members provided for in the regulations which we ourselves have adopted. Even knowing that there will be an electronic vote that will require the physical presence of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have always done, we will vote in two or three times, finally, what is needed, but we cannot break our own laws. I therefore ask the parliamentary groups to deal with the exit of several Members of the Chamber — more specifically 20 Members, at least — so that we can start the votes. [[Pause.]] So let's start with the Vote Project No. 620 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Culture and Communication and signed by Members of the PSD and PS ) — Greetings by 50. the anniversary of the Foundation of the Companhia de Teatro de Almada. I ask Secretary Lina Lopes to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Commemorate 50. the anniversary of the Companhia de Teatro de Almada is to celebrate the size and greatness of an institution of enormous cultural reference of the city of Almada and our country. The Companhia de Teatro de Almada, at the time of the designation ‘Group of Campolide’, began its history in Lisbon on 24 April 1971, by the hand of Joaquim Benite and a group of young actors, with whom, a year later, won the award of criticism for amateur theatre with the life scene of the Great D. Quixote de La Mancha and the Gordo Sancho Panza. In 1976, at the Theatre of the Trinity, Joaquim Benite transformed the Group of Campolide into a professional company, which settled at the Theatre of the Trinity, in Lisbon. One year later, in the context of the cultural decentralization movement, the group settled in the theater of the Almadense Academy, where it remained until 1987, adopting the new designation: Companhia de Teatro de Almada. In Almada, the city where he lives, he became one of the main theatre phenomena in the country, whose maximum exponent will perhaps be the Almada Festival, created in 1984. In 1988, the Companhia de Teatro de Almada opened the first Municipal Theatre in this city, in the old municipal supply market. In 2005, it is finally completed the project of the new Teatro Municipal de Almada — a building by Manuel Graza Dias and Egas José Vieira designed as a root for the operation of the Company and for the continuation of its theatrical project, in the context of an integrated regional development programme, National Network of Theatres and Municipal Cinemas – which has become one of the main theatres of the country and which is called the Teatro Municipal Joaquim Benite since January 2013. The work carried out in recent years by the Companhia de Teatro de Almada has settled in a perspective of public service of culture, through the commitment to the continuation of a systematized wager in the national dramaturgy, the continued work of public mobilization for the theatre and other stage arts, the programming of annual regular seasons, varied offer, the regular plan of educational service activities and the involvement of local populations and other public in activities carried out at the Municipal Theatre Joaquim Benite. The Companhia de Teatro de Almada, one of the most important national theatre companies and creator of one of the most important European theatre festivals – the International Theatre Festival of Almada, of which 38. the edition will take place in July 2021 — is a symbol of the cultural life of our country. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, in association with the celebration of its 50 years of activity, expresses its recognition and salutes the Companhia de Teatro de Almada, as well as its workers and officials, pointing out the indelible contribution of its work to the prestige and dignity of the role of Portuguese theatre at the national and international level. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u123	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We still have the Vote Project No 622 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PAR and signed by PS, CH and PS Members ) — Congratulations on 20. the Anniversary of the Law of Religious Freedom and 2. the anniversary of the National Day of Religious Freedom and Interreligious Dialogue. They are present, in representation of the Committee on Religious Freedom, its President, Dr. José Eduardo Vera Cruz Jardim, our former colleague and former Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic, and also Dr. Fernando Manuel Soares Loja, Dr. Mahomed Iqbal, Dr. Huzur Mukhi Rahim Firozali and Dr. Pedro Maria Godinho Vaz Patto. I would ask the Secretary to read this draft vote, and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On June 22, 20 years of the publication of the Law of Religious Freedom was completed, Law No. 16 / 2001. The adoption of the Constitution of 2 April 1976 placed Portugal in a state of full compliance with the requirements of international texts which marked the evolution of the matter, with emphasis on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, on the European Convention on Human Rights and, more recently, on the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. However, the adoption of the Law on Religious Freedom of 2001 was a fundamental moment for the full realization of the constitutional programme on religious freedom, establishing a transforming and exemplary normative framework at the international level. The freedom to profess or not a religion and that this choice defines an identity as our own thing, the freedom to celebrate a cult or choose not to do so is a fundamental right. It is a question of human rights, of an expression of a dimension of human life. at a time of escalation of religious intolerance at various points in the globe it is essential to preserve the legacy of those who, with vision, knew how to build inclusive and solidarity communities for all faiths and for all those who do not profess them. The two decades of its peaceful reign are the example of the acceptance of the regime established there, as revealed by the date of its publication as National Day of Religious Freedom and Interreligious Dialogue in 2019. Recognizing precisely the symbolic importance of the publication of the Law of Religious Freedom in 2001, the Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary session welcomes the celebration of 20. the anniversary of the approval of the Law of Religious Freedom in 2021 and with the 2. the anniversary of the institution of 22 June as National Day of Religious Freedom and Interreligious Dialogue, and reiterates its determination in the realization of fundamental rights in religious matters, combating intolerance, promoting cooperation and interreligious dialogue and safeguarding secularity as a guarantee of equality of believers and non-believers before the state. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u125	Again welcoming the members of the Commission here present and, above all, its President, José Vera Jardim, who was also very important for the adoption of this law, we will vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[General applause, having PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and CH applauded standing.]] We now vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the National Defence Commission on the final text submitted by the Commission on the Proposal for a Law No 84 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the new Organic Law of the Foundations of the Armed Forces Organization. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We also voted for the plenary of the indexary votes held in the National Defence Commission on the final text submitted by the Commission on the Proposal for a Law No 85 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the National Defence Act. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We will move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the National Defence Commission on the Proposal for a Law No 84 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the new Organic Law of the Foundations of the Armed Forces Organization, which will have to be an electronic vote. I ask the services to prepare this electronic vote. [[Pause.]] Therefore, with the people who are currently in the Chamber, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text. I'm asking the ladies. Members present in the Chamber who sign their way of voting on the screen and at the same time stand up as I ask the different ways of voting. I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, voted against the members of the EB, the CFP, the ENP and the CH. I'm asking who's away. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members have abstained from the representatives of the NAP and the IL and Members of Parliament who have not registered Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira. I ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members voted in favour of the members of the PS, PSD and CDS-PP. Taking advantage of the gentlemen. Members present in the Chamber, the same social and parliamentary base, will also proceed to the first step of the global final vote of the final text presented by the National Defence Commission on the Proposal for a Law No 85 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the National Defence Act. I ask, once again, who votes against. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, voted against the members of the EB, the CFP, the ENP and the CH. I'm asking who's away. [[Pause.]] Members of the PAN and IL and Members of Parliament not enrolled Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were absent. I ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] Members of the PS, PSD and CDS-PP voted in favour. I'm asking you now. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to be able to replace your colleagues, we will continue this electronic vote. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not stop talking and sit down, so that we can continue the electronic vote. [[Pause.]] I ask the services if we are already in a position to proceed with the continuation of the electronic vote. [[Pause.]] I'll report to you. Members must register, open the screen and see the different colors. I shall start by asking, of course, those who were not in the Chamber recently who voted against. Mr Ventura, who is in the Chamber but has already voted, cannot vote twice. Who votes against? [[Pause.]] They vote against the gentlemen. Members present of the EB, the CFP and the ENP. Now I ask who abstains. [[Pause.]] The Members present of the NAP abstained. Who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] Members of the PS, PSD and CDS-PP shall vote in favour of the present Members of the PS, PSD and CDS-PP. In any case, I remember that those who vote against charge in red, those who abstain in white and those who vote in favour of the green button. I'm asking the ladies. Members who have had difficulty exercising their right of electronic vote to inform the Bureau, please. In the Left Block, if anyone has any difficulties, please say it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u126	Mr President, the computer is not working, but I would like to record that vote against both initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u127	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We moved on to the PS bench. I'm asking the ladies. Members who have had difficulties that arise, say their names and the sense of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u128	Mr President, Pedro Cegonho and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u129	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Please continue, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u130	Mr President, Eurídice Pereira and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u131	Mr President, Mara Coelho and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u132	Mr President, Ivan Gonçalves and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u133	Mr. President, Isabel Rodrigues and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u134	Mr. President, Sara Velez and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u135	I recall that the microphones in the first rows are not working, so the Mr. Members will have to move to the back or side bench. You may proceed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u136	Mr President, José Manuel Carpinteira and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u137	Mr. President, João Castro. I did not vote through the electronic system the Bill No 84 / XIV / 2. a, so I wanted to leave my vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u138	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u139	Mr. President, Nuno Sá and I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u140	Mr. President, João Castro and I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u141	Is there anyone else who couldn't vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u142	Mr. President, Olga Silvestre and I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u143	Mr President, André Pinotes Batista and I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u144	Mr President, Duarte Marques and I voted in favour of both proposals, since I could not vote electronically.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u145	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. They are therefore all registered. Those who voted in various ways and those who failed to register electronically are now registered. We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the National Defence Commission on Bill No 85 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the National Defence Act. I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] They vote against the gentlemen. Members present of the EB, the CFP and the ENP. Now I ask who abstains. [[Pause.]] Members present of the NAP were abstained. I ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] Members of the PS, PSD and CDS-PP voted in favour. The Bureau noted that a number of Mrs. PS Members are asking for the floor because they have not been able to register. Please say your name and sense of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u146	Mr. President, Isabel Rodrigues and I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u147	Mr President, Mara Coelho and I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u148	Mr President, Ivan Gonçalves and I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u149	Mr President, José Manuel Carpinteira and I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u150	Mr President, Pedro Cegonho and I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u151	Be registered, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. I recall that those who vote in favour, even orally twice, only count one.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u152	Mr. President, João Castro and I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u153	Mr. President, Nuno Sá and I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u154	I would ask the services to show us the final result of these votes. [[Pause.]] Since the total number of voters in favour corresponds to more than the absolute majority of members in effective office, the final texts submitted by the National Defence Commission, respectively, to Law Proposals Nos 84 / XIV / 2 were approved in a comprehensive final vote. a and 85 / XIV / 2. the, the first with 199 votes and the second with 198 votes. There is a difference in one Member. It must have been someone who did not load the button properly, but will investigate-CL with a quick inquiry and then change-CL. I've put this on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1364 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Seville. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 89 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1153 on the use of financial and other information for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating or repressing criminal offences. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PCP, the PEN, the ENP, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, BE, CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u155	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u156	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u157	Mr President, to inform you that the Left Block has abstained in the last vote. Although I didn't give that indication, I wanted you to stay at it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u158	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on the application by the PS to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees without a vote for the 60-day deadline of the Proposals for Law Nos 90 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Change the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and related laws, implementing measures provided for in the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, and 91 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1937 on the protection of persons who denounce violations of Union law. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] These diplomas are down to 1. the Commission. We now generally vote for Law No 98 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 713 on combating fraud and counterfeiting of means of payment other than cash. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and CH abstentions.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 411 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July 2019 — Approves the regime for the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions, amending Article 10. the, establishing, respectively, the period of disgust between the exercise of governmental and public and private positions and the incompatibility of political and high public positions may exercise any functions or functions in undertakings with which they have negotiated by the State as holders of the protection folder they represented. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, the vote in favour of CH and the abstention from CDS-PP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 564 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — Enhancing the minimum and maximum criminal frameworks provided for in relation to crimes of passive and active corruption. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote in favour of the CH and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u159	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u160	Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u161	Mr President, I did not understand what proposal we were actually voting on. So I didn't vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u162	We just voted for Bill No. 564 / XIV / 2. A, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u163	Mr President, the NAP vote is abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u164	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Do not change the final result. Let's vote now, also in general, Bill No. 671 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ) — Creates an Article 150. -A to Decree-Law No 48 / 95 of 15 March ( Criminal Code, in its latest version, as amended by Law No 58 / 2020 of 31 August ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, the vote in favour of CH and abstentions from the NAP and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] Then we will vote together on requests, submitted by the authors of legislative initiatives, to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote, within 60 days, of the following bills: No 749 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Revocation of residence permits for investment activity ( gold visas ) ; No 798 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Criminalization of unjustified enrichment ( fifty-second amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 48 / 95 of 15 March and seventh amendment to Law No 34 / 87 of 16 July ) ; No 799 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Bans the State from using arbitration as a form of dispute resolution in administrative and fiscal matters; paragraph 805 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Creates the crime of unjustified enrichment and concealment of wealth ( second amendment to the regime of the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions ) ; No 816 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July on the extension of reporting obligations and the densification of the crime of concealment of enrichment, No 843 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Extends the reporting obligations of the holders of political positions and high public positions and creates the crime of intentional concealment of enrichment by the second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July; No 860 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — The second amendment is made to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July with a view to preventing and combating unjustified enrichment and concealment of wealth; No 866 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creation of the complainant's protection regime; No 867 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creates the crime of withholding profits and revises the penalties applicable to liability crimes committed by holders of political and high public positions; No 868 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creation of the sorry status; No 869 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — The twentieth amendment is made to Law No 21 / 85 of 30 July, which approves the Statute of the Judiciary Judges, creating the crime of withholding income and unlawful enrichment and amending the conditions for the exercise of non-statutory functions, No 870 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — The second amendment of Law No 68 / 2019 of 27 August approving the Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office, creating the crime of withholding income and illicit enrichment and amending the conditions for the exercise of non-statutory functions, No 874 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Strengthens the transparency duty imposed on holders of political positions and high public positions ( second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July ) ; No 875 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Approves measures to combat corruption and economic and financial crime by amending the Penal Code and related legislation; No 876 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Thirty-eighth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted by Decree No 78 / 87 of 17 February; No 877 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July, extending reporting obligations and providing for mandatory communication to the Public Prosecutor's Office of the lack of indication of the facts that caused capital increases ; and No 879 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Approves the complainant’s protection status. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 86 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Government involvement in the search for solutions for the end of tax havens. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions of the CH and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 553 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Introducing mechanisms to control the electronic distribution of judicial proceedings, making the tenth amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] The initiative we just voted on is low to 1. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 591 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Introduction of mechanisms to control the electronic distribution of administrative and fiscal jurisdiction proceedings by amending the Code of Procedure in Administrative Tribunals, approved by Law No 15 / 2002 of 22 February 2002 and the thirty-third amendment to the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure, approved by Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 26 October. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] The initiative we just voted on is also low on 1. the Commission. We then have to vote on an application by the NAP to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees without a vote of 60 days from the Bill No 641 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Consecrates transparency and scrutiny mechanisms in the distribution of judicial proceedings, amending the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 1296 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Construction of new premises of the Criminal Investigation Department / DIC of the Portimão Judicial Police. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 937 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — recommends that the Government strengthen social protection and amplification of mechanisms to support victims of domestic violence in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic and successive confinements. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We then voted on Resolution Project No 1323 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By creating the protected marine area of Community interest in the Bay of Armação de Pêra. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the vote against the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u165	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u166	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u167	Mr President, I would like to announce a PS statement of vote on the vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u168	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We moved on to the Resolution Project No. 26 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Simplification of access to the title of recognition of the Family Agriculture Statute and implementation of concrete support to its holders. Let's vote for him. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PAN and the IL, and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We then have several draft resolutions on the same subject. I wonder if we can vote together. [[Pause.]] With no opposition, we will vote jointly, in general, on Resolution Projects Nos. 1172 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent implementation of the National Strategic Plan on Telehealth; 1331 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the updating and implementation of the National Strategic Plan for Telehealth ; 1341 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Implementation of measures for a true possibility of telehealth in the National Health Service ; and 1351 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — It proposes measures for investment in telehealth. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Thus these draft resolutions are down to 9. the Commission. We now have to vote on draft resolution No 1290 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government make public the data arising from Article 3. the Portaria No. 310 / 2016 concerning obstetrics and neonatology. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We shall immediately vote on draft resolution No 1354 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Extension of the object of the Possible Commission for the Monitoring of the Application of Response Measures to the COVID-19 Disease Pandemic and the Economic and Social Recovery Process. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP and ENP.]] We proceed to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on Bill No. 724 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extraordinary arrangements for supporting the maintenance of housing and commercial spaces during the mitigation and recovery period of SARS-CoV-2 ( sixth amendment to Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] I believe that it is no longer worthwhile to vote on the request submitted by the CFP, which is based on the vote script, since the replacement text has been rejected.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u169	Mr President, if I may, I would just say that the CFP's request was on the vote, in the specialty, of the replacement text, which, in the meantime, has been dropped in general.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u170	In fact, the additional script itself has also had better days, i.e. it can be « clear ». We shall therefore vote, in the overall final vote, on the final text, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on draft Law No 544 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — National survey on food waste in Portugal. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members are in favour of paragraphs 37 to 41 of the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic, I Series, concerning plenary meetings held on 13, 14, 15, 19 and 20 January 2021. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The set of opinions that follow in the script have already been voted on at the beginning of the sitting; however, we can only ratify the outcome of the same vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote together on the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of the Members already set out at the beginning of the sitting. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will now please read some important information for all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u171	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft resolutions Nos 1362 / XIV / 2 have been added to the Bureau. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1363 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and the Motion for a Resolution No 25 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which drops to 2. the Commission. I also use it to inform the House that you have been present at today's plenary session by video conference Mr Sérgio Marques of the PSD, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-25.u172	Mrs. Members, the agenda for the next plenary session, to be held on Wednesday, 30 June, beginning at 3 p.m., which was required by the CFP, will have as its first point the discussion of the Bills Nos 5 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduce to 35 hours the maximum working time limit for all workers ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ), 43 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consecrates the right to 25 days of annual holidays ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ), 525 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Combats job precariousness and strengthens workers'rights ( tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ), and 825 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Alter the scheme for collective dismissal and dismissal due to termination of the job and repeal the dismissal due to inadaptation, strengthening the rights of workers ( tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, which approves the Labour Code ). the second item contains a possible vote at the end of the debate. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us close our plenary session. I thank everyone for their cooperation and wish a good weekend, those who can in Seville, of course. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 17 minutes.]]
