ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Meanwhile, as we await the arrival of the government, I would ask Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo to report on the introduction of some initiatives. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. I greet all and all. They entered the Bureau and were admitted by the President of the Assembly of the Republic, Bill No. 814 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 1. the Commission and draft resolution No 1231 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u3	I'll inform the ladies and gentlemen. Members who are present in the forum of the Diplomatic Corps, the President of the Assembly of the Republic and the President of the National Council of Austria, Wolfgang Sobotka, who is on a working visit to Portugal and to whom I would like a greeting from the House. [[PSP, PSD, CDS-PP and IL (Standard) and BE, PCP and PEV applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us start our agenda, which, as you know, has as its first point the presentation of the Stability Programme, which will be discussed together with the Draft Resolution Nos 1111 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government send the PRR in its final version to Parliament for discussion, 1217 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government complement the Stability Programme with an investment programme and a social measures programme 1221 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By the sovereign law of Portugal decide about its future: fighting the virus and its use and ensuring the development of the country and 1223 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — By a strategic vision for the country oriented towards people and businesses: regaining the economy and employment and responding to the social emergency. To present the Programme, Mr. Minister of State and Finance, Mr. João Leon, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: April of each year marks the beginning of the budgetary procedure, with the presentation of the Stability Programme — a document that integrates the government's macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts for the next five years, but which is marked by great uncertainty, as a result of the pandemic crisis we are experiencing. But this month of April also gives us the renewed hope that we may be closer to the exit of the tunnel. Recovery is in progress! Some more recent indicators already show a resumption of economic activity. Today, the INE (National Institute of Statistics) reported that unemployment fell to a rate of 6, 5 % in March; that employment increased; that trade sales, in particular non-food products, recovered to the level of almost one year ago; that consumer confidence and economic climate indicators increased significantly in March and April; that multi-bank purchases by residents increased 14 % compared to the pre-pandamia period; and that goods exports increased 6 % in the first quarter compared to the same period. In recent days, we have also had good news about the health crisis: we have entered the second phase of vaccination and it is now anticipated that group immunity can be achieved sooner than expected. The positive developments in the number of new cases give us confidence that we will continue for the last phase of defination, hopefully without having to close again. The President of the Republic's decision not to renew the state of emergency is, in his words, « hope mobilising ». Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, another news I can only mention has to do with the formal delivery last week of the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ) to the European Commission. Now we wait for the funds to arrive until summer. It is in the strong macroeconomic momentum of the PRR that we are discussing today based on the Stability Programme. We expect the PRR to add more than EUR 22 billion to the economy over the next five years. Thus at the end of 2022 GDP ( gross domestic product) should be 3, 5 % above the level that would have occurred in a scenario without RRP. of the approximately EUR 16 billion of the RPP, close to EUR 10 billion concerns public investment, which will focus on the three main axes of the Plan : digital transition, climate transition and resilience. The RPP also represents a unique opportunity to stimulate private investment through EUR 5000 million of direct support to companies and EUR 2, EUR 7 billion of indirect support to stimulate the private sector. This also adds EUR 9 billion from InvestEU to finance SMEs ( small and medium-sized enterprises ) via the Development Bank. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we expect a growth in the economy of 9, 1 % over the next two years, which will make GDP beyond pre-pandamia levels by 2022. The growth of the economy in 2022 will be 4, 9 %, being above our previous estimates and reflecting the full recovery of economic activity. This growth is based on the strong momentum of investment and exports, based on the reduction of uncertainty in the face of the pandemic and the beginning of the transfer of high amounts of European funds. On the other hand, the external balance, which was affected by the restrictions on tourism in 2020, is again positive and has a surplus of 2 % motivated by the return of exports and tourism, the RPP funds and the interest reduction trajectory of public debt. at the level of public debt, a reduction trajectory is expected year after year, reaching pre-pandamia levels from 2024, in which it will be below 120 %. Due to the strong response to the pandemic, this year's deficit reduction will be lower than that forecast from 5, 7 % to 4, 5 % in 2021, a decrease of 1, 2 % of GDP instead of the originally estimated 3 %. In 2022, the budget deficit fell to 3, 2 % due to the robust growth of the economy and in 2023 we estimated that it would fall again below 3 % in line with budgetary commitments. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is in this context that the Stability Programme creates an economic-financial framework aimed at a strong economic and social recovery that enables us to face the main challenges left by the pandemic: with job creation; with continuation of the trajectory of family income recovery; with reduction of inequalities; with particular attention to areas most affected by the pandemic; with recovery of the planned activity in health and recovery of learning in education; with fiscal stability; with no cuts in the social support of the State; and without adding crisis. This is a responsible Stability Programme, which does not lose sight of the sustainability of the country and public finances in the medium term and shows that the country will return to a path of growth, without resorting to austerity. We have already demonstrated that we have been successful since 2016. We are confident that we will be able to do it again. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u5	The Bureau recorded 11 entries for requests for clarification, to which the Minister will answer in two groups. We have no indication that the order of formulation of requests for clarification is otherwise than the order of registration, I believe that this is the rule of functioning. Thus, we will follow the order of registration, but, of course, ensuring alternance in the use of the word by the various parties. The first request for clarification lies with Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to ask you three questions about, I would say, three symbols of what seems to me to be the vision that you bring here today, both for the Stability Programme and for the PRR that you are subject to. They are symbols of the consecration that makes private investment and, above all, of the private initiative as the poor relative of the socialist state, of the movement that is more of propaganda than of substance and a statisticizing vision, I would say even corporate, than the action of the state should be. I shall then turn to these three symbols, on which I would like the Minister to clarify. With regard to the resilience dimension — which is undoubtedly the most important one — 22 reforms will be adopted and 49 investments will be implemented, using three loans, so many pages can read the following in the Stability Programme: « In this regard, it is expected to capitalise and bear more than 1000 companies in the economic recovery phase. » I ask the Minister if I am reading well, if the Government thinks that it supports more than 1000 companies, which is a drop of water in the ocean in a country like ours, which has more than 1 million and 300,000 companies, will serve to recover the country from the serious problems we already had and which have worsened with the pandemic. Secondly, on the subject of advertising, because it is true that it makes a strong commitment to public investment—it would even say in public spending—the following can be read on page 32 of the Stability Programme: « (... ) the recovery trajectory of public investment initiated by the Government in 2016 (... ) ». I ask the Minister if you would like to correct this statement. And I even use it to provide you with a PORDATA document — « Gross fixed capital formation by institutional sector» — where you can clearly see that in 2016, 2017 and 2018 there was no recovery. Public investment was less than registered in 2015. Finally, I would like to ask you a question about a measure announced in Parliament by the Minister of Public Administration and which I think is symbolic of a state-of-the-art, corporate vision and, I would say, a bit salazarant, which is the opening of a university residence for the children of civil servants.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u7	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u8	Of course, Mr. President. Mr Minister, I should like to know whether this measure is confirmed. As far as I can see, there is a movement, and I quote, of'solidarity' with public service workers, but I wonder whether all workers are not worthy of the same solidarity, especially with public resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u9	Mrs Mariana Mortágua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, there are two questions concerning the New Bank that I want to ask you. I've already done them under other circumstances and, as I haven't got answers, I'll bring them back. The first question concerns the strategy that the Government will have for the new injection into the New Bank. Parliament was very clear when it adopted a proposal from the Left Block in the last budget with a view to withdrawing the commitment of expenditure from the Resolution Fund. This means that the Resolution Fund does not have a budgetary commitment to inject money into the New Bank. Soon after that, a draft resolution was adopted, also by the Left Block, which imposes conditions on this injection, in the sense that there is an independent audit of the accounts of the New Bank. If we join these proposals adopted in Parliament, we can conclude that Parliament has given two very clear guidelines to the Government : first, there is no injection of money without an independent audit ; second, the Government is not allowed to make such an injection without authorization from Parliament. Any injection must come to Parliament to be discussed and voted on. I ask the Minister whether Parliament has its commitment to the fulfilment of the budget law and how it will bring any injection into the New Bank to the Assembly of the Republic to be discussed and voted on. The second question relates to the contract signed by the Government of the Socialist Party with the New Bank, which guarantees a capital ratio of 12 % to the New Bank, paid by the Resolution Fund in 2021. This would give rise to a capital call of 598 million, which the New Bank asked for, or because the government has already contested this value of 426 million, which is of little importance to this reasoning. What matters for this reasoning is that the European Central Bank has reduced capital requirements and the New Bank no longer needs to comply with a 12 % ratio, it has to comply with an 8, 25 % ratio, as well as the other banks of the system. This means that the New Bank already fulfils its capital ratios and even exceeds them by around EUR 400 million. If the government agrees to inject money into the New Bank, it is overcapitalizing it. It is a double bonus that is unnecessary for administration and new shareholders of the New Bank. Therefore, question was taken the necessary steps to renegotiate this injection and to ensure that in 2021 there will be no unnecessary injection, a real bonus to Lone Star, New Bank shareholder. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u11	Mrs Paula Santos from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister, the strengthening of the SNS ( National Health Service ) is a priority that is not compatible with the conditionalisms of the Stability Programme, which cannot only remain in the words and must have a concrete translation in the health units and in the valorization of workers. In addition to the response to the epidemic — testing, tracking and vaccination — and the emergency in increasing the number of vaccines available, through the diversification of their purchase, the SNS will have, in the coming years, a huge requirement: to recover late care in primary and hospital health care, consultations, surgeries, examinations and treatments. To ensure this response it is necessary to invest in the SNS, in the linkage of all health workers with precarious links, essential to provide more and better health care. It is not acceptable for these workers to be dismissed when they are needed every day! So the question is: when will they be integrated? It is necessary to invest in the hiring of workers, in the enhancement of their careers, in the progressions, in the creation of the exclusive dedication scheme, because it is with guarantee of working conditions, strengthening rights, investment in equipment that are fixed at the SNS. It is necessary to invest in the creation of a public health structure with financial, technical and human resources, of proximity, with autonomy in the exercise of the functions of the health authority; in the expansion and construction of health centres; in the reopening of closed extensions; in the extension of valences in mental, visual, oral, rehabilitation and nutrition; in the construction of new hospital equipment; and in the internalization of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy. The question is: what is being done in this regard? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u13	Mr André Silva, from the PAN, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u14	Mr President, Minister for Finance, the Stability Programme tells us that the Government does not try to address the impact of the serious economic crisis on the attack on certain established interests that have stopped the development of the country. We know that every minute the country loses €34 000 for corruption, we know that the development of the country is only possible with the fight against this phenomenon and we know that one of the risks of the bazouca is precisely that of corruption. And what does the Stability Programme bring us in this area? A cut of EUR 264 million in the expenditure of the sovereign bodies in 2022. Mr Minister, do you think this is appropriate in a country where the Constitutional Court does not have full coverage of wi-fi in its building and that you have to put drivers to check the candidatures for presidential elections? Is it appropriate that the Transparency Entity has not been out of the paper for more than two years, because of the lack of financial means, and that the Court of Auditors does not have an adequate computer system to monitor the bazouca? Mr Minister, if corruption does not fight with weak institutions, why is this court in a context where what is required is a strengthening of means? We know that in 20 years the country will pay for road PPPs (public-private partnerships) three times as much as the structures associated with it, i.e. almost EUR 9 billion to more, the equivalent of more than half of the bazouca. In this respect, the Stability Programme does not address anything, nor does it even mention the contingent responsibilities that could arise from these partnerships, for example due to disputes between the parties and requests for financial rebalancing of concessions. Despite the enormous budgetary burden of these risks, they are still being ignored and the imbalance in the balance remains on the side of the public sector. Mr Minister, why does the government fear not to renegotiate PPPs? Then we also know that the end of the moratoriums may bring significant inequalities in the bank that may call into question the stability of the financial system and force an intervention by the public sector to restore the capital of the banks, i.e. the risk of a New Bank 2.0, which may once again be paid through an increase in taxes. And what does the Stability Programme tell us about this serious problem? Nothing, it's one of the taboos! For the NAP, the path cannot be made through the creation of the so-called « tax on the bourgeoisie of telework». There is an urgent need for a disruptive policy to stop taxing wages and taxing carbon, putting an end to perverse subsidies for EDP and large pollutants, which cost us more than EUR 500 million annually. Minister, what money will this New Bank 2.0 pay for? Will it be the taxpayers or will it be this time that it will question the installed interests of the polluters? Finally, Mr Minister, our country loses EUR 1000 million for tax havens, equivalent to 9% of education expenditure. We do not find policies in the Stability Programme to address these losses. It is urgent for our country to support Joe Biden's proposal to create a single and comprehensive corporate tax and to support the creation of an international register of effective beneficiaries. Mr Minister, the last question I leave to you is whether or not the Government will take these two pillars as a priority in international cooperation in tax matters?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u15	Mr Afonso Oliveira of the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, discussing the Stability Programme for the next five years is discussing choices, because it is the choices, the options of public policies that will decisively condition our collective future in the next five to ten years. The government's choices over the last five years of governance leave us deeply concerned. We have already said it and it is always very good to remember it: the government has been unable, over the past five years, to make public investment that responds to needs, to make essential investments in the SNS, as it was very visible at the beginning of the pandemic, to provide public services to meet the needs of the Portuguese. during this exceptional year of pandemic, it was always unable to understand one of its main obligations: to support companies with the size the crisis required and to realize that it is companies that create jobs and pay wages. The government didn't understand this! Unfortunately, the Minister for Finance has come to express great satisfaction with the way the Government has responded to the needs of businesses. We heard it today, with a very pink speech, regarding the reality of the country. We are still going to find out in this debate that entrepreneurs, business associations, trade unions, workers and all Portuguese workers at risk will have to apologize to the government for the criticisms they are making — quite rightly — about their inability to respond to the dramatic crisis in which many economic sectors are at risk. Mr Minister, I ask you very clearly: why was the Government's option not to support companies in the extent to which the government was authorized in 2020? Why did you choose not to do so when companies needed that support most? Will the economic recovery of this crisis happen without capitalised and competitive companies? Are we going to recover without companies, Minister? Mr Minister, the Technical Unit for Budgetary Support ( UTAO ), in its analysis of the Stability Programme, identifies a set of contingent responsibilities that represent serious risks to public finances. These risks are highlighted, credit moratoriums, TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) and New Bank. Mr. Minister for Finance, asked questions on these matters at the hearing of the Committee on Budgets and Finance yesterday, resolved to kick these issues down and devalue them. Therefore, I ask you to guarantee the Portuguese that the amount of EUR 3.7 billion for TAP is sufficient to solve the company, to save the company and to put the TAP in the air again. Or will we have another well here without a fund of public money? With regard to the New Bank, can the Minister of Finance tell the Portuguese today that the Government will not take any decision on any amount to be transferred to the Resolution Fund without the completion of the audit that the Court of Auditors is carrying out by decision of this Parliament? What will the Government do with the European Banking Authority to equalize and prevent the sudden end of moratoriums? There are a number of questions on central issues and to which the Minister must answer. Mr Minister, do you not see a huge risk to the Portuguese economy? The Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is central to the Stability Programme - we have already said - does not have a focus on the economy and businesses, does not put the improvement of competitiveness in the centre, is a State programme and more State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u17	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u18	I will finish now, Mr President. Let me just tell you that time also goes off in the global PSD time. The Government has not been able to implement the necessary public investment for five years and now presents an over-investment programme for what it could do. Mr Minister, there is a question I have to ask you and it has to do with the PRR. On page 30, it is said « for each euro invested over the period 2021 - 2026, within the framework of the RPP, it translates into an accumulated gain about five times higher over the next 20 years ». What business and what investment produces five times more return? I can't understand! It was very good that I could explain to the Portuguese what this represents.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u19	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u20	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Minister, I want to tell you that we need a serious speech, because we know that the Portuguese are already sick of being deceived by socialist governments. This is the time to tell the Portuguese the truth and tell them what economic recovery policy the government wants to follow, putting competitiveness at the centre. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u21	Mr President, it is true that time is always short, but the regimental figures have a certain time and in the case of questions it is 2 minutes. The Bureau, however, has given some flexibility. Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor by the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Minister for Finance, this PSD speech is a farce. It is a speech that calls for more social spending, calls for more public investment, when, five months ago, they voted against the State budget for 2021,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u23	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u24	... accusing the government of presenting a budget that went far beyond public expenditure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the PSD was never able to tell which part of the public expenditure it wanted to cut, whether it was in social expenditure or in public investment, because there was no other way to shrink public expenditure. In addition, by reading the draft resolution presented in this debate, the PSD accuses the Stability Programme of falling behind in social expenditure and of falling behind in the realization of public investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u25	We didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u26	But we remember that the State budget for 2021 was presented as a budget to combat the crisis, which proposed the increase in the national minimum wage, the extraordinary increase in pensions, the increase in the minimum threshold of unemployment benefit, the increase in the minimum existence of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons), the increase in all social benefits, family allowance, social benefits for inclusion, the CIS (comparisonary complement for the elderly). So this is a State budget with a huge social concern, but still the PSD voted against it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD speech, over five months, is an inverted speech. That's why this speech is a farce! The Stability Programme does not increase taxes or promote cuts in social benefits.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u28	It is a Stability Programme that does not bring a drop of austerity for the next five years and this should not be forgotten, on the contrary, should be valued. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have heard the PSD say that the government and crisis control measures do not support companies. This Stability Programme is presented at the beginning of the second quarter and, looking at the budget implementation of the first quarter, the figures tell us that support for companies totaled EUR 1180 million, a value corresponding to 84 % of the total budget for 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we look at the public expenditure of the National Health Service in the first quarter we see that it has increased 160 million euros. If we look at the expenditure on social security, we see that it increased, in the first quarter, EUR 800 million, i.e. more than it was budgeted for the whole year of 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] Mr Minister, this means the following: these figures confirm that the government has not saved in support of businesses and families, it has not saved in the fight against the crisis! Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to ask you a question which has to do with the economic recovery that is beginning, the recovery. The productive capacity of our companies has not been destroyed, as provided by the PSD. In fact, by the way, this very negative PSD prophecy about the labour market led the PSD leader to defend the freezing of the national minimum wage, the large macroeconomic measure he had for the two years 2020 - 2021. In view of the measures that the Government has implemented, in support of income and employment protection, the level of employment has been maintained and the productive capacity of our companies has not been destroyed. Is this or not essential for a quick recovery of our economy, as we all want? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u29	The Minister of State and Finance has the floor to respond to these requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u30	Mr President, on the questions put by the Member of the CDS on company support, I can say that EUR 5 billion is planned for direct support. The dimension he referred to concerns only one dimension. And in addition to the EUR 5000 million already planned through the InvestmentEU, which will also be financed with the participation of the Development Bank and the increase in capital in the Development Bank, more EUR 9 billion of financing are available for companies. The government has given a significant, very strong and robust set of business support. In reply to the PSD Member, I would like to say that in the first quarter we executed about EUR 1200 million only of deep support for companies. The rate is not 50 %, it is not 100 %, it is 150 % higher than the monthly average last year!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u31	Now imagine what you did last year!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u32	And the main indicator of the effectiveness of these measures is the unemployment rate, which, according to what the INE announced today, is in values far below what is expected. Madam Member, look at the unemployment rate: 6, 5 %! It is likely that it will last until the end of the year below what we have foreseen in our Stability Programme. We are with an unemployment rate of 6 %, but the PSD announced a disaster and chaos with the increase of the minimum wage to about 1 million workers and said it would cause the increase in the unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u33	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u34	On the issues raised by the CDS Member on public investment — which, on the one hand, criticizes the excess of public spending and public investment and, on the other, says that public investment is not enough — I would like to point out that, as a government, the PSD has not promoted public investment, it has severed public investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u36	We still pay compensation in court today on account of the investments that broke... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I can show you a chart in which you can see what the governments have decided. Comparing the evolution of public investment contracts launched, decided and signed by our Government and the PSD/CDS Government, it is verified that the number of contracts launched by our Government is four times greater than the number of contracts launched by the PSD/CDS Government. Part of the investments referred to for example in 2015 relate to that investment made by the former Socialist Government and that the PSD had cancelled and decided to resume in the last year of implementation of the Community framework. Mrs Deputy, many of the investments carried out during the mandate of your Government were not decided by your Government, were decided by the former Government of the Socialist Party. Your government has not decided, the only thing that has done is to break some contracts! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u37	Your government has done nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u38	In relation to questions about resilience, I inform you that they are within the framework of the social services of the Public Administration and its social mission, because any company or any other entity has its mission. With regard to the questions put by Mrs Mariana Mortágua on the New Bank, I mean that the government will always comply with the law. at this stage, we must not rush, because there is still a very important element: the audit of the Court of Auditors, whose final version we are not yet aware of. Therefore, only after we make an assessment of all the information, including that of the Court of Auditors audit, will we know how much we can and should transfer to the New Bank through the Resolution Fund. And this will always be done with strict demands, in the context of contracts, international commitments and always fulfilling the law. I can assure you that, Mrs. Deputies. On the issue of the New Bank, particularly on the regulatory decisions of the European Central Bank, I draw attention to two aspects : on the one hand these decisions are of a temporary nature ; on the other hand we have to look at the issues that have to do with the contract that has been signed. It is therefore in this context that the decision to be proposed by the Resolution Fund and the Banco de Portugal, i.e. within the framework of the fulfilment of the contract and international commitments, should be assessed, not forgetting that it is necessary to take into account the temporary nature of the regulatory decision it referred to. With regard to the questions put by Mrs PCP, I would like to say that we agree that a strong recovery of the planned activity of the National Health Service is needed. In fact, the Government committed itself, at the time of the adoption of the State budget law, to a set of CFP initiatives such as the strong hiring of resources and investment in the National Health Service, being an initiative for investments and recruitment of unprecedented professionals. We will comply strictly with what we commit ourselves to within the framework of the State Budget Agreement for 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u39	That must be a reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u40	On the issues raised by Mr André Silva of the NAP, I would like to draw your attention to the following: contrary to what he said, we do not want to increase taxes. We do not think it is necessary to increase taxes to pay the effects and accounts of the crisis. Why? Because, gradually, in the previous legislature, the current government and the parliamentary majority that supports it have adopted economic and social recovery measures that have enabled the balance of public accounts to be achieved. We therefore do not see the need for an overall increase in taxes at this stage, unlike other governments. Without prejudice to this, the environmental issues are always important and we are always available, according to the other parties, and in particular with the NAP, to make progress in this area, also in the budget proposal, seeking to implement measures that help to combat climate change. On the subject of corruption, I would like to say that the Government today, in the Council of Ministers, approved a package of diplomas to combat and prevent corruption. With regard to what you referred to the budgets of the sovereign bodies, this has nothing to do with the courts, it has to do with the exceptional expenditure, which in 2022 will not materialize, so it will not affect the budgets of the sovereign bodies. You can stay calm. With regard to questions on the end of the moratoriums, on the risks of « New Banks » and having to pay invoices associated with this, I would like to mention the following: The Government has already implemented a very significant package of loans to companies with State guarantees, which reaches a value of about EUR 10 billion, and this has strong implications for the financing of companies. In fact, the PSD, while criticizing the risks associated with this, says we give sufficient support to companies. I recall that in the debate of the State budget for 2021, one of the main criticisms of the PSD had to do with the quota risks associated with these loans with State guarantees. These State-guarantee loans are part of a balance between the State's efforts to support companies and the financing of the banking sector in order to ensure that the losses are not only in the banking sector. Even in this context — and the Minister of Planning, then, will be able to deepen this issue, if you so understand — we have in the PRR measures that will help to make the transition. As I said, EUR 1500 million is already planned via the Development Bank to help companies move to the post-moratory period, as well as EUR 9 billion is planned, via InvestEU with the participation of the Development Bank, which will also help to make this transition, and we still have other mechanisms for this process. I would also like to point out, firstly, that the end of the moratoriums has to do with the resumption of the normal payment process, and we hope that the economy, at that time, is already in full recovery, and, secondly, that in the countries where the moratoriums were already completed, the process was much more peaceful than it was anticipated. There is also a lack of reply to the relevant questions raised about economic recovery. I am particularly in agreement with the following question: the effectiveness of State support measures decided upon by the State to undertakings, and today the INE confirms that the unemployment rate is 6 %. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Mrs. Members, I remember that in the former PSD Government, because there was no support for companies and because there was a crisis, although the economy has fallen less than in the last year, the unemployment rate has reached more than 16 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u41	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u42	INE now confirms an unemployment rate of 6, 5 %! This has helped to maintain the productive capacity of companies, which is not only important in supporting workers and maintaining their jobs, as it is crucial to ensure that the economy is recovered very quickly, which we anticipate for this year and next. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u43	Let's start the second round of requests for clarification. Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Minister, decent wages and rights-based employment are central elements to ensure dignity in each person's life, to respond to the situation we live and to ensure a path of economic and social development in the country. The government cannot ignore the cataust of collective redundancies that are taking place on the pretext of the epidemic outbreak, as well as the destruction of such jobs: Eurest, Global Media, Cofina, TAP, including blackmail and pressure processes on workers in these collective redundancies. Nor can the Government witness the closure of the port refinery, the destruction of more than 1000 jobs, with tremendous consequences for the local and regional economy and which mean more deindustrialization and more external dependence in the country. The way must be different: to put Portugal to produce, combat unemployment, precariousness, create jobs with rights, significantly value wages, ensure the social protection of those who are in a fragile situation. Minister, what do you have to say to the workers who are being fired and who need your job? the thousands of workers whose wages do not allow them to leave poverty? to the workers who continue to wait for social support, do you support those who have to arrive quickly? What do you have to say to all these workers who are objectively unable to find a response in this document that the Government submits? The government cannot sidestep the urgent response to this reality, nor can it ignore that it is the workers who produce the wealth of our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u45	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Minister, in this debate, I would like to leave some considerations and some questions. With regard to the considerations, I would like to begin by saying that the PSD presents here today an initiative that recommends to the Government, among other aspects, that the Stability Programme 2021-2025 be complemented by a set of strategic measures and means that must be mobilized to accelerate the recovery of businesses, employment and income of families, which have been greatly affected during this phase of the pandemic. We therefore hope that the government will meet this need and this recommendation that the PSD leaves here. I would like to recall what the PSD said so many times during the discussion and vote on the State budget for 2021: the government's budget for the support measures to COVID-19 was insufficient. In fact, at that time we said it was insufficient and the situation had not worsened yet. It's more than natural that we got to where we got here today. Indeed, in the first three months of this year, social security has exceeded the margin of increase for the whole year in respect of these measures to support COVID-19. So I mean, the PSD was right. There was very unrealistic in the State budget for 2021...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u47	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u48	... and today this unrealism is present here. Now it is important for Mr Minister to explain whether support for families, workers and businesses is compromised, as a result of this unrealisticism. I would also like to say that the Stability Programme refers to an increase in expenditure on subsidies. All right, Minister. Without calling into question the need to go to some sides to welcome the need to cover certain expenditure, it is important for the Minister to say where he is going to cut. It's in public investment, but exactly where? It's in social benefits, but exactly where? It's in intermediate costs, but exactly where? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u49	It is this rigour, Minister, and it is this transparency that the Government is required to work. The government has to be responsible and it has to take the options it takes. In order for the Minister to respond to the Portuguese — I repeat — to the Portuguese! — I shall finish my speech by asking whether social security will have money to meet your commitments. Will social security stop supporting families, workers and businesses? That is what we demand to know, that is what the Minister must respond to the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u50	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister of Finance, the Programme presented by the Government refers to, and I quote, « an international panorama marked by very high levels of uncertainty ». It could not be otherwise, because for many sectors, especially for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (PMMEs) in our country, the concrete experience of this pandemic crisis has once again demonstrated the decisive importance of domestic demand in the dynamisation of economic activity. In the coming years, in which such uncertainty is an unmistakable factor at the international level, it becomes even more important to promote the purchasing power of Portuguese people, because what wages and retirement pensions cannot be sold cannot be sold. The Government refers virtually all the answers to the business problems to the PRR, where there are more variables beyond our reach to add to this uncertainty and it is important to remember that what was to be carried out from the last State budget is a nearly six times higher than what is expected to be received this year from the PRR. Of course, not only has public investment been systematically below forecast, as since 2012 has been less than fixed capital consumption, i.e. it does not compensate for capital wear. However, this government priority for the accelerated reduction of the budget deficit means limiting and restricting resources for economic recovery and, from the outset, increasing purchasing power, defending productive sectors and the effective implementation of substantial and quality public investment. While Brussels wants to hear us talk about carbon neutrality or digital transition, the crucial issue for national MPMEs is even the dynamisation of domestic demand, with more work, more investment and better future. How do you answer to these micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, Minister? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u52	Mr. Carlos Pereira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, I would like to begin by saying that it seems obvious to me, following the debate we are attending, that the PSD did not come to this debate just as a prophet of misfortune—because we already know it, it has been this way and we remember that it was the devil before! — also arrived, without the housework done. In fact, Mr Minister, allow me to make a first comment on Mrs Clara Marques Mendes's intervention on PSD's forecasting capacity in the 2021 budget discussion, when we did not know that there would be a new confinement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u54	You didn't hear what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u55	This is no longer forecast, Minister, it is guessing! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD was already guessing that we would have a confinement and that there would be a need for more money. So that's what we're talking about. [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] But I would still like to make another comment, Mrs Deputies, which has to do with the support of the workers. I don't think we need much comment on support for workers, because we know exactly what the PSD and CDS did in this area when the previous crisis occurred. We do not accept lessons from the right about support for workers, because we know exactly what the way was. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are other comments I would like to make about Mr Afonso Oliveira, which I think is also relevant — in fact, it reflects everything that is the PSD today — in particular with regard to the debate on private investment and public investment. It has been so long since we are discussing private investment and public investment and the PSD has had time to find any calculator within its party and to tell Parliament and the country which is the right proportion of support for private investment and support for public investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u56	You didn't get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u57	Sir, you've had so many opportunities to do so! The gentlemen. PSD Members have said 'no, it is little support for private investment', but today something hilarious has happened, Minister. I have heard of everything in the PSD — I have heard some Members say that there was little support for private investment and others on another occasion say that there was little support for public investment — but today there has been a fantastic synthesis. Today, the same Member said that there was little support for private investment and little support for public investment. This is memorable, sir! This has to be in history, because I don't know how you did that! [[P.S.'s applause.]] If there is little support for private investment, he must say that public investment wants to take away from the PRR. Show the list to Parliament and show the Portuguese in which areas they want to support. Is it in the house? Is it in the National Health Service? Where do you want to get these support? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PSD Member Afonso Oliveira.]] It is necessary for Portuguese to know what is the alternative of the PSD and not only hear a cry of criticism in which there is nothing concrete, nothing responsible, nothing objective. The third note I wanted to give has to do with TAP, Mr. And it is worth talking about TAP, not following your statement, Mr, but following the intervention of another PSD Member who said that TAP was a « home of horrors ». By chance, I went to consult what was going on with the rest of the flag companies to realize, after all, that such a great horror is what is going on with the TAP. Only for the honourable Member to understand, as well as the other Members. PSD Members, I leave you three indicators. The first indicator is on net results: the TAP dropped 68 %; the Lufthansa dropped 65 %; the KLM dropped 59 %; and the IAG dropped 69 %. It does not seem to me that the TAP is such an isolated 'horrority'. The second indicator is about the search: in TAP, 73 % fell; in Lufthansa, 75 % fell; in KLM, 67 % fell; and in IAG, 74 % fell. That is to say, everything is in line with European companies. The third indicator is on state aid, which is what you like to bring here: for TAP, what is in the restructuring programme is EUR 3, 4 billion ; for Lufthansa is EUR 11, 4 billion, four times more ; for KLM is EUR 15 billion. There is a question to which the PSD also has to answer: what were you doing with TAP, Mr Deputy? Did TAP fall? Oh, my God! Then assume she dropped it! If I hadn't let her fall, what was the way? This is something that you have to answer to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u58	Mrs Ana Mesquita from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the CFP considers that many of the answers that are to be given in the Stability Programme concern workers. Among them, the workers of the arts and culture, who have many difficulties in accessing social support and who still today struggle against the wrong exclusion of support on such simple grounds as being members of unremunerated statutory bodies. More than talking about millions or measures announced a thousand times and which delay, what is needed is to respond quickly and effectively to the problems that continue to be solved. There is no structural response on the part of the Government to combat precariousness in the arts and culture. There is no prospect of building a true public service of culture throughout the national territory. There is no indication of the end of the model, called "competitive", of the financing of cultural and artistic creation. So, Minister, I ask: how will the situation of workers in the area of culture be resolved who have been excluded from support? Will the support be granted for each month in which the professionals would receive if they had been properly included? How will the Government respond to the structural precariousness of the arts and culture, since the status announced now in public consultation, in terms in which it is, does not resolve it? In many cases even legitimate and in-depth. Finally, I ask: what means, plan and action will the government be aimed at building a real public service of culture, ending with the model that this epidemic proved to be bankrupt and inadequate and which consists of competitive funding? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u60	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of State and Finance, John Leon.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u61	Mr President, I am glad to answer two questions that have remained to be answered in relation to the previous intervention, and one is about the TAP. As the Government foresees in the Stability Programme, for the coming year, some 800 million additional euros are planned for the capitalisation of TAP. If the PSD Member asks whether there are risks in the TAP, I would like to point out to him that this is done on the basis of a rigorous TAP restructuring programme, which is under discussion with the Directorate-General for Competition and has the marks it allows. If there are more or less high values risks, at the moment, the scenario that is there is conservative, anticipates some risks, but it would also not be correct if it did not say that we are in a context of great uncertainty and that it is difficult to predict the future. But it is also true that TAP is a company subject to competition on the European internal market and therefore all the support given to it must be in the same forms in which it is given to other aviation companies in Europe and are limited by this conditionality. Still about the TAP, I also wanted to mention the alternative of the PSD. I remember that in June the PSD leader even said that the government should take public control of the TAP. After all, now you don't want public control anymore? [[Protests by PSD Member Afonso Oliveira.]] They have to take whatever they want. The PSD can't be constantly giving up reels, defending something now and its opposite immediately following. In reply to the questions put by Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, the 2021 Budget was built on the basis of the scenarios that were being made, not only by the Government but also by other international institutions, on the evolution of the pandemic. [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] With regard to COVID, that was not what was in the international forecasts and in the government forecasts. The scenario, in the first quarter, was worse than the anticipated one and this had to be reinforced. But the government has committed itself to strengthening much support if the pandemic had a worse development, as it had in the first quarter, and said that support would not be lacking. The evidence is that, so far, we have already carried out more than was expected in the Budget and we are redeploying the headings for unforeseen expenditure on social security and providing support to families and businesses. These support will be more than twice as planned in the Budget, which has to do with this reallocation of funds that were provided for in the centralized appropriations for unforeseen expenditure. Mrs. Member, I know that PSD has this habit of wanting to cut, always waiting for cuts here and there, but we won't cut, we don't need to cut. [[PSD protests.]] We make prudent, rigorous budgetary management that seeks to meet the main challenges facing the country, supporting companies and families in what is necessary to help them cope with this pandemic. So here's the commitment that there's no cut. On the contrary, there are reinforced support while the pandemic conditions the business activity. With regard to the questions put by Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP, on wages, we also agree with the PSD. When we approved the Budget for 2021 and said that we wanted to increase the minimum wage, the PSD was against and wanted to freeze the minimum wage for one million workers in Portugal, but the Government, according to the parliamentary majority, made the reverse way, the path of the increase of the minimum wage, which was reinforced by 30 €, a quite significant increase in the European context. We are prepared to continue to pursue this path of strengthening the minimum wage and wages in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u62	What about the state?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u63	With regard to expenditure on State staff, according to first quarter figures, 4 5 % are increasing, reflecting a set of remuneration and staff enhancement valuations. But it's an increase of 4, 5 %! For the next year, we are planning to increase staff expenditure by more than 3 %. It is more than EUR 800 million in the expenditure on State staff, because unlike the right, we do not think that public servants should be treated differently, we do not think that they should have their salaries frozen or that they should not have any progress and remunerative valuations. The right says this, but then, sometimes in parliamentary practice, he is excited and does exactly the opposite, contrary to what the PSD leader defends. As regards the issue you have raised on public investment, Mr President, we agree that this must be strengthened. If there's something we're missing now, it's not money. It is not the budgetary issues that will affect the evolution of public investment. We will have a strong implementation project on additional European funds, which is the PRR, and the great challenge is the ambition of its implementation as soon as possible. That is the great challenge and certainly not budgetary issues, because if we succeed more quickly in realising those projects, the financial impact of the budget will be positive. On the issues raised by the Member of the CFP, on culture, I wanted to show that we are going to comply with everything that has been approved under the State budget law for 2021. However, we decided to strengthen urgent support for culture — to add to traditional support and emergency support in other areas — taking into account its specificities, with the addition of more than 1 IAS(indexing social support) for three months. In addition, we have the culture support programme. Tens of millions of euros are currently being implemented under this programme, and recently the government has approved the new status of cultural professionals, which is a new structural instrument that will strengthen the protection of workers in this area. With regard to the questions put by PS Member Carlos Pereira, I fully agree that the PSD, with regard to public investment, says everything and its opposite. I would like to mention only one sentence of 2019 of the maximum head of the PSD programme : « Public investment should be reduced to 1, 5 % of GDP. » It is one of the main measures presented in the book of the head of the PSD program. at present, what is foreseen in the Stability Programme is public investment above 3 % of GDP. I do not understand the PSD strategy: on the one hand, it says that public investment is lacking; on the other hand, it says that public investment needs to be cut. It's a contradiction, but we see with good eyes that the PSD is evolving. Let us hope that they are not only parliamentary tactics and that this is a sincere development of their position. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u64	To present the draft resolutions of the CDS-PP, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS presents two draft resolutions today: one, so that the final version of the PRR will be discussed and voted on here, and another, so that there will be an alternative to this Stability Programme. Indeed, Mr Minister, according to what I have heard today, there is a need for an alternative to this view, which is a view of the private initiative as the poor relative of the socialist state. The lack of answers to the questions even demonstrated that. Mr Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to tell you very briefly: on the issue I put to you, concerning the opening of a university residence for children of civil servants, the Minister replied to me "are the social services of the Public Administration, as in any company. » That’s not true. And it's not true for three reasons. First, there are no social services in any company. The overwhelming majority of companies in Portugal have no size to have social services. Secondly, for a very significant part of companies and workers in the private sector there was layoff, with pay cuts. Mr. Minister said several times today that there were no cuts. It is not true, during the epidemic there were, yes, cuts for many workers in the private sector, and it is good for us to be aware of this, because they have no less rights than the rest of the Portuguese. in the same way, many small businesses have been closed— still today are closed by State obligation. Therefore, the public service is not like any company, because it did not happen in the public service. Thirdly, I would like to remind you that social services are partially financed by tax revenues, which are a common resource which I imagine is not shared with all companies in Portugal. But it is, in fact, a vision that is statisticizing and, more than that, it is corporate: that of the proliferation of ADSE (Assistance in Disease to State Servants), of different systems and careers and distinction of workers and people according to their employer rather than according to what they are. I would like to remind you of the following: the projects we present here are, above all, an alternative. The Minister here presents a stability programme which forms part of a assumption that is the biggest recession in 2020, since there is registration, and a downward revision of growth to 2021. The solution you find for this is mainly around the PRR. What he said and that the Minister did not deny is that only 30 % of the RPP investment is planned for direct incentives for support to companies, companies that create the vast majority of total investment, which create 80 % of employment and 85 % of the gross value added of the economy. in the same way, I would like to remind you that an alternative was also needed to solve the problem that is created with the moratoriums. Mr Minister, the moratoriums are the problems we have left for later, which Mr Minister has chosen to leave for later. It is that in 2020, the effort with the COVID-19 measures did not reach EUR 5000 million of direct impact on the Budget and this year is little more than EUR 5000 million, but the Banco de Portugal says that only with moratoriums are EUR 11 billion, then an effort equal to the budgetary effort. That means it's a problem that stayed after. And I don't see that answer. In fact, I would like you, if you could, to clarify what the Minister for Economic Affairs said, which said you already have a plan for this problem. Then I would like to know if it is true that what is planned in the PRR is the capitalisation of 1000 companies, because, Minister, that is either a grate, or it is already the domain of anecdotal. Finally, Minister, I did not make any qualifications on public investment, I just told myself that it is false what you say when you say there was a recovery in 2016. You have written something that is objectively a falsehood, and you have not denied it. But if my accusation is that the Government of which I was a party has broken some contracts of works perfectly megalomary by the former Prime Minister Socrates, such as that of the TGV (Train at high speed), I say I have indeed done so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u66	To present the PSD draft resolution, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Stability Programme that the Assembly of the Republic is called upon to appreciate is a true act of faith, in which they only believe the inadequacies of the Socialist Party, because it sits on mud feet and is presented by a government team that never — I repeat, never! — he succeeded in fulfilling only one of the six he has already presented to the Portuguese. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the facts. In 2020, the country saw the biggest fall in economic activity in our recent history, with a reduction of 7, 6 % of GDP well above the known peaks — 5, 1 % in 1975 and 4, 1 % in 2012. We know that this fall was due to something unexpected—to the COVID-19 pandemic and to the containment measures associated with them—but we also know that the response of all public policies in Portugal, despite all the advertisements and propaganda, was modest compared with those of our European partners' governments. In fact, only two countries have mobilised less public resources than Portugal, as a percentage of their economic capacity : Spain and Finland. On average, in Europe, the response of public policies to the severe economic and health crisis involved budgetary impacts of more than 4 % of GDP, but in Portugal, according to the National Institute of Statistics, it did not exceed 2, 3 % of GDP, just over half of the European average. Reflecting the option of saving resources was the 2020 budget implementation itself, with the government saving of EUR 7 billion in the expenditure authorized by the Assembly of the Republic, including around 1500 million in public investment. I think this is then the number of credit moratoriums, both families and businesses, even compared to other European countries. The Government can well now regret this fact, without understanding, however, that it was he who pushed companies and families towards this instrument, pushing forward the problem, following the reduced number of support that he really provided to those who needed it most. In the current Stability Programme, the Government is downgrading growth forecasts for this year and upwards for the state deficit, compared to the Budget approved last November. Of course, the government refuses the criticisms, which we then formulated, that the government was based on optimistic forecasts and prefers to take refuge in the worsening pandemic crisis in January. We already give it cheap, but it is no longer possible to have the same kindness with the numbers that it presents us. The government, for example, has an increase in budget expenditure of around EUR 2, EUR 6 billion, but the budget deficit is only residually affected in two tenths, from 4, 3 % to 4, 5 %, without aggravating taxes. How does this miracle come about? It is easy: it cuts, practically, into all expenditure items, including public investment. Strangely, soon thereafter, he says that this will be the spring of recovery. They're incongruence behind incongruence. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, the broad sub-execution of public investment is, we all know, a mark of this government: huge propaganda, in October, when it presents the Budget; successive reductions in the amounts planned for investment, in April, with the presentation of the Stability Programme; new cut, in October, when it presents the new Budget; and, at the end of the year, a result always below the last forecast. On the other hand, we must also examine this Stability Programme to identify whether it presents the appropriate response to the situation of the crisis we are experiencing. Is the stability programme 2021 - 2025 meeting the challenges that the serious situation is facing us? Do you recognise the economic and social problems that need to be overcome? Identify the instruments to do it? Is it credible what you intend to do and what you expect as a result? [[It is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u68	Unfortunately, the answer, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not. No and no! On the one hand, the Stability Programme is entirely dependent on the European Recovery and Resilience Plan, i.e. the provision of the funds provided for in this Plan for Portugal, which depends on the speed with which the Portuguese Presidency of the Union achieves that the ongoing process of ratification of the decision takes place in other countries. On the other hand, it depends on the capacity to absorb funds from the Portuguese Government, especially for public investment, by an estimated amount of around EUR 10 billion. Only the government's inability to make public investment programmed, as occurred between 2016 and 2020, is a risk of failure to implement the Stability Programme, which now appears to be added.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u70	in this case, as the Council of Public Finance points out, this risk is increased by the absence of specification of specific investment projects and announced amounts. The macroeconomic advantages of the Stability Programme themselves appear dependent on the Recovery and Resilience Plan, since, according to the Programme, 20 % of the expected growth implies the achievement of the expenditure framed by that plan. But the risks of non-implementation of the Stability Programme 2021 - 2025 are exceptionally high and it would be of the utmost importance to ensure their mitigation. On the other hand, by presenting the Stability Programme, essentially as an extension of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, it shows a huge omission in social matters, ignoring the consequences of the violent crisis caused by the pandemic. If the social crisis has to be overcome by the recovery of the economy, it will never be able to dispense with the contribution of public policies. But this is a dimension for which the Stability Programme is completely blind. In view of these two most obvious aspects of the Stability Programme, the high dependence on the capacity to absorb funds and carry out public investment, which the Government has always failed, and, according to its apparent indifference to the serious social legacy of this serious crisis, the PSD, because it is not resigned to seeing the ship to be wrecked, decided to recommend to the Government two important complements, which we believe, Mrs and Mrs. Members, you can only deserve the majority support of this House. First of all, the development of an investment programme, covered by the Recovery and Resilience Plan, where it is sufficiently specified which investments to be made, duly quantified and calendarised, in order to confer the consistency and credibility that the Stability Programme does not have and, on the other hand, to be possible a better public scrutiny of government action. Secondly, complementing the Stability Programme with the presentation of a social charities strategy, which should identify the most serious social deficiencies left by the crisis and present the measures and means that the Government must mobilize to accelerate the process of retraining and recovery of employment and income of families, which are violently affected by the crisis. Without these two instruments, the Stability Programme is at risk of not passing a simple role, where the Government has entered abstract numbers, without relation to reality and without a plan of achievements that it is important to undertake to re-emerge the tragedy, i.e. a document in which, I repeat, only by a true act of faith some may believe. It's just that the Portuguese deserve a lot more and better. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u71	Mr Fernando Anastácio wrote to ask for clarification, but Mr Duarte Pacheco no longer has time to answer. Therefore, or there is a short-term transfer to Mr Duarte Pacheco, or you will have to sign up for an intervention, Mr Fernando Anastácio.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u72	Mr President, I have entered even before Mr Duarte Pacheco began to speak, assuming that the PSD would have time to respond. However, I noticed that the honourable Member was careful to avoid the possibility of answering questions. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, I will answer my question in an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u73	So to present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : in this debate, it has already been noted that there is a clear difference of position between those who, like the CFP, reject the country's strategic guidelines being conditioned by the Brussels ties and those who converge in the country's submission to these dictates, as much as they want to find pretexts for pretending differences. It is that this document, like all the other Stability Programmes presented, does not go hand in hand to fulfil the timetable for European bureaucracy, to please Brussels and thus condition options for the future. And there, PS, PSD, CDS and the unique Members of the most reactionary parties converge on this submission. What is the point of discussing a five-year document, in a context of such uncertainty, when what is required is to implement the measures that are in the Budget and which respond to the problems of workers, families, businesses and public services? What is it worth to the technocrats in Brussels when the weaknesses arising from excessive external dependence are evident, particularly with regard to vaccines? We are bound by a failed strategy, which the leading powers of the European Union are not subject to, rather than diversifying the acquisition of vaccines and betting on the production of vaccines for now and for the future! What are ads worth, when public investment is so often blocked by the lack of resources in the Public Administration or the suffocation of the Ministry of Finance and even by the risks of delays in the approval of the PRR, of which almost everything is expected to invest? What is it worth accepting from the budget, even when the rules are suspended? Why does the government continue to have as a turning point the obsession with the deficit, when what was needed was to channel the entire margin to respond to the country's problems? Mrs. Members, it is this alternative policy, this sovereign development project that the CFP puts on this initiative: a bet on national production, replacing imports into strategic goods, because only by producing a country can be truly sovereign and prosperous; an appreciation of work, with the increase of wages, rights and combating precariousness; a bet on public investment, which serves to improve public services, from immediately in public school and in the SNS, and which also serves to boost private investment; the recovery of public control of companies and strategic sectors, such as banking, telecommunications, energy and transport, to place these sectors at the service of a national development strategy. This alternative does not coincide with the conditioning of the country's future options to the European Union and the euro's taxes. This alternative requires urgent answers to the problems that are now very serious, but it also points to solving the root causes of these problems, weaknesses and dependencies for the country being pushed by successive governments. It is in this fight that the PCP will continue! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u75	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The stability programme that the Government has submitted to the Assembly of the Republic for several days is an admission of dependence on which decades of statisticating policies condemned Portugal. The Government makes it clear that the future of the country is fully dependent on the Recovery and Resilience Plan, that is, without Europe's money Portugal does not exist, without Europe's money Portugal is unable. This perception is so internalized in the government that neither the document nor attempts to disguise it. It is only that — we read — the viability of the Stability Programme depends on the schedule of the PRR, the implementation of the PRR and that the PRR can have enough projects to support that are feasible — it is appropriate! — and that they have an economic return — it is also appropriate! The Stability Program is the PRR and PRR is the Stability Program, and they are both bad. They are bad because they do not devote enough investment to companies — only one third of the total is applied to companies, as shown in the chart on page 23 — although it is known that they are the investments that have the greatest impact on GDP and employment, as can be seen in the table on page 24. They are bad because they see economic growth that stabilizes around anemics 2 % from 2023. The lack of ambition for this goal is shocking and condemns the country to continue to be overcome by other European countries in the coming years. Once again it is demonstrated that the PS does not know how to grow the country in order to create more opportunities for all, especially for future generations. Portugal needs more liberal policies based on private investment and tax relief, such as those which Greece and Italy have included in their national plans — and which the honourable Members have included. Members would do well to consult, and they would soon demonstrate that they produce growth and well-being. instead, this obsession of PS with public investment, little or no reproductive, and certainly not demonstrated, only produces stagnation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u77	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the discussion we are now making, I begin by identifying what The Greens designate as the « original sin» of the Stability Programme. For this reason, I bring to the debate two notes, which, not precisely with regard to the content of the document, cannot, however, be left out of the discussion. The first is because the Stability Programme is part of a set of instruments, which formally express the submission to which our country continues to subject itself to the European institutions. The second to remember that, in particular, the decision to accept this kind of « prior visa » of the European Union, in the face of the options and priorities of our country, had only the acceptance of the PS, the PS, and the CDS-PP. Now, in the light of the Greens, it is time for a serious assessment of this set of submissions, where the European Union knows what our country's priorities are and not the Portuguese and its representatives. In fact, it is appropriate to say that the saying that "the saints of the house do not perform miracles" is indeed taken seriously by the political forces that have been accepting these transfers of sovereignty. Now, and in view of this framework, this programme will only have « legs to walk» if there is green light on the part of the European Union, which means that those who define our options and priorities are not the Portuguese and their elected ones but, yes, those who are far away and who, far away, by sight, know more than we do in the matter of priorities for the country. And this is, for us, the "original sin" of this Stability Programme which I have just mentioned. But more: however many times they intend to run away from what is obvious, the experience of the years that have passed shows us that, in this context, there is a fact from which it is not possible to escape. As long as we remain subject to the impositions arising from the application of the euro rules, no matter what remedies are made here and there, they will always be programmes conditioned abroad and, as we have seen in the past, far from responding to the problems of the country and the Portuguese. Moreover, as the pandemic crisis we are experiencing is making it clear, the policies that have had the Stability Programme as a background have always made more part of the problem than the solution. And they did more of the problem not only because they represented serious obstacles to the development of our country and the people of Europe in general, but also because they came to accentuate the differences between the countries of the European Union themselves. In this respect, it is not surprising that the Member States in full pandemic continue to be linked to meeting the timetables and criteria of the European Semester and, at the same time, the European institutions offer States indebtedness as the only means to finance the increase in public expenditure from the pandemic and, of course, health expenditure. As for the content of the document, there is a strong recovery of economic activity from the second quarter of this year. But this forecast assumes the success of vaccination campaigns and, in the face of the shortage of vaccines provided by the pharmaceuticals with whom the European Union has negotiated, we have serious reservations about this strong recovery from the second quarter. Then, having the breakdown of tourism the weight it has in the negative evolution of our economic activity, it was time to make a serious bet on our production, as a way to create jobs and dynamize our economy and, above all, not to be dependent on external factors that we do not dominate, as is the case with tourism. In addition, this programme lacks the definition of public investment levels that ensure economic growth and that public services are not valued so that they can give the required response and to which Portuguese are entitled. It is still necessary to look at protected areas as a natural heritage that needs to be valued and preserved. And there is a lack of support for people who are still losing income. This, in addition to the need to value wages, as a way to dynamize domestic demand and, by this way, the development of the country. Finally, but not least, it is necessary to extend support to micro and small enterprises beyond the pandemic. These companies depend heavily on the internal market and, as it will delay to reach desirable levels, if they do not continue to be supported they will not survive, with all the consequences that arise there, especially with regard to levels of unemployment. Finally, I would like to say that, for the Greens, it is essential to relaunch the economy in a just and sustainable way, responding to the social and environmental challenges ahead. But these answers must have as a premise greater the interest of the country's development and the well-being of Portuguese rather than external taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u79	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This document, which is presented to us today, if it were not called « farsa », would be at least a document of a tremendous incognito. The Minister promised us a public debt of less than 100 % in 2023 and now promises to fall from 120 % in 2024. That's what should be in your plan: explain why you didn't succeed. But the Socialist Party has never been able to explain it. This report and this plan fail to point out what was one of the countries with the greatest increase in bankruptcy in recent years—and it was Portugal! — and that in Europe it has been one of the countries with the greatest increase in bankruptcy in declarations in recent months — it is true, Minister. But it is also a plan that is entirely dependent on the European scenario. In fact, the plan presented here today is a plan that depends at all on the Recovery and Resilience Plan and on what our European partners are now making available. After all, the government that told us that we are in the best condition ever to face a crisis is open to Europe. If the money does not come, I suspect, Mr Minister, who will not be a minister in three months' time, nor will Antonio Costa be Prime Minister. Mr President, a short time ago he was able to tell Parliament that he was able to make a plan without a global increase in taxes. Mr Minister, 60% of the final price we pay for fuel is taxed; we are the second country in Europe with the most expensive gas due to taxes; and we are the fourth country in Europe with the most expensive electricity due to taxes. It is necessary to emerge to this House and to say « we have achieved a miracle without increasing taxes ». You couldn't, Minister. He managed to get at the expense of the Portuguese, that every day they are more taxed to pay those who don't want to do anything at all. That's the country we have.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u81	You want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u82	It is a country that pays to distribute, which increases taxes to pay to those who do not want to do anything, who will pay and spend millions in social housing to those who have never paid a income in life and to those who have never worked in life.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u83	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u84	That is the result of your socialist policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u85	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State and Mr. Members: In fact, there are some Members who have a very difficult relationship with the truth in this House. We have to understand and we'll put them in the right place. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, and listening to the intervention of the PSD, we welcome the concern shown with the need for a social charism strategy. However, I would like to remind you that this challenge has been delayed for 10 years, but you are welcome. Our only concern is to identify which PSD is talking to us, whether this one, which today is concerned about the social issue, or whether tomorrow's one, which will repeat the words of its former leader, who was against the increase in the national minimum wage. The question is this, and that is why credibility is not much. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the social strategy is present in all government strategic documents and clearly reflected in the Stability Programme 2021 - 2025, particularly with concern in combating unemployment. Moreover, today's INE figures show precisely the results of the fight against unemployment and also the forecast of unemployment growth by next year, which shows, significantly, the result of government social policies. The Government's response has always had a strong social pendant. And I quote the cross-sectional support that has been reinforced and others that have been created extraordinaryly or translated into substantial support for active policies, which are expressed in the PRR. This line, sirs. Members, it contrasts with the guidance that the PSD, in the previous crisis, promoted, because, then, there was cut in social benefits and in combating inequality. Therefore, this is a line that demarcates us and that, in this crisis, differs from the answers that occurred in the previous crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, defending public investment is necessary, good and fair. But moral authority to PSD to talk about public investment is something you lack. We all remember the austerity policies of the PSD government / CDS-PP, which caused an interruption in the hiring of public investments. And we all know the effort that was needed to relaunch public investment and public investment contracts, which the numbers, particularly those of 2020, already show, clearly showing this growth. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Mrs Cecilia Meireles, if there were any doubts about what I am saying, I remind you that, in public accounting, the increase in investment has already been felt since 2018,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u87	... having in 2020 public investment in public administrations was more than around 15 %, EUR 645 million compared to 2015. These are facts, Mrs Cecilia Meireles! [[Well remembered!]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u88	Mrs. Members, as regards the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is a matter that brings us here, Portugal has shown a strong leadership and a strong concern with this Plan. It was the first country in the European Union to present it and Portugal has sought to mobilise all countries around it under the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The PRR already provides for a public investment programme of EUR 10 billion, which is, of course, focused on digital transition, climate transition and resilience, objectives that are being placed on the world at present. But if public investment is important, it is also important to refer to private investment. And, as has already been said today, the PRR foresees EUR 5 billion of direct support for companies and EUR 2, 7 billion of indirect support, which will dynamize, precisely this private sector, much more than those 1000 companies that Mrs Deputy spoke about recently.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u89	It wasn't me who spoke, it's the program that talks!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u90	This adds 9 billion of InvestEU, through the Development Bank. These are objective data, data that are not questionable. But the important question is that Portugal today faces one of the greatest challenges in its history — we will all agree with that. The Stability Programme 2021 - 2025 is, of course, based on the PRR, and it is natural that so, but this plan needs political stability in order to succeed in its implementation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u91	And the question that the Portuguese put and to which the PSD — and the other parties — will necessarily have to answer is whether it is with this national effort to overcome the pandemic, to recover economically and socially the country, contributing to the indispensable political stability, or whether, as the PSD shows, it prefers to continue to stop in time, clinging to its contradictions, which result only from those arrows, which are down or up, which appear in the social media bodies when a study of opinion is made. This challenge arises: to know whether they are on the side of the stability of the State, of the development, or of the difficulty, of creating problems, creating instability and harming the development of the country. It is a question for which the Portuguese demand an answer. Mr. Duarte Pacheco no longer has time, but the PSD has the opportunity to respond later. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u92	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Support for the economy will continue to be « costing anything », said the Minister of State and Finance, days ago. The expression « cost what it costs » is the same as Mario Draghi used in 2012 to launch the ECB's mega-programme ( European Central Bank ) of liquidity injection in the economy. This reference by the Minister of State and Finance for the Stability Programme 2021 - 2025 therefore sounds as a little megalomary. The truth is, in fact, that if the European Central Bank acted like the Excel of Minister João León, Europe would be even worse. Minister João León is missing from his slogan "costs what it costs" that minimum relationship with reality that is indispensable to propaganda. A few weeks ago, it was the government who unknowingly sent the Constitutional Court to ask for the extension of exceptional support to the family and to the self-employed, approved in Parliament. This intransigence has, in fact, a history that must be remembered, « cost what it costs». In the negotiation of the State Budget for 2021, the Prime Minister guaranteed to have corresponded to the concerns of the Block, promising a new social benefit to respond to the violence of the crisis. At the time, we warned that the rules imposed by the Government on access to benefits would result in a reduction in the support then demanding. That's exactly what happened, as the Block warned. The new support excluded so many people that a few days after their entry into force the government was obliged to recognize our reason and to restore, and well, the support for self-employed workers who were in force in 2020. But in that replacement, the government failed again. Instead of defining support from the loss of workers'income compared to 2019, before the pandemic, it took as reference the incomes of 2020, a year already of crisis. The government did not want to support independent workers, nor families with children, « cost anything ». And the result was even the reduction of support. This error was eliminated only partially and late when all the parties of Parliament, with the exception of the Socialist Party, joined to correct it, against the will of the Government. It may now be said, as the Minister of Finance has already said, that the Social Security budget for 2021 for the COVID-19 support measures was exhausted in March, because the Government was unable to anticipate the third wave of COVID-19. But, worse than not having noticed the worsening of the pandemic, it was that in the budget negotiations it refused all the proposals that provided a response. The Minister speaks of "costing" support, but without budget, social security is doomed to have to ask the finance every euro that is missing to respond to those who need it most. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government's promises are only valid insofar as they do not prevent the objectives of reducing deficit and public expenditure in GDP. This is the real goal « cost what it costs ». For him, the Government does not take action and even forgets the figures that Parliament has discussed and approved in the budgetary procedure. In 2020, a pandemic year, the deficit gap against the Supplementary Budget was more than EUR 3000 million, corresponding to the unimplemented expenditure of almost EUR 7 billion ; 1500 million are investments that never came out of government frameworks. And the year 2020 was no exception. If we add up the unimplemented investment in this legislature, we reach more than 2500 million, corresponding to accumulated budget strikes of EUR 5000 million. And the film continues. This week, in the committee, Mr Minister was asked, in particular by several Members of the CFP, about the course of implementation of the existing budgetary measures. Portugal is one of the countries in the euro area where the State less invested to respond to the crisis. Also, we are the country most dependent on banking moratoriums. One in three euro credit to companies is now suspended. The Portuguese companies and families are thus in the hands of the European banking authorities, who decided on the end of the moratoriums and the banks, who will then decide on the restructuring of the debts. And that is because when the country needed a given response, « cost what it costs », the government offered a policy of minimums. But there's an exception. There is support that the Government even wants to give now « cost what it costs », even if it is not included in the State budget, which is support for the New Bank. Parliament was very clear in determining that the government is not allowed to decide on its own a new capital injection. This clarity of Parliament contrasts with the government's flight today, reiterated by the Minister of State and Finance, to commit itself to the vote in the Assembly of the Republic of any injection. The government wants to do with the New Bank what it did not do with the self-employed, which is a expenditure of EUR 426 million which was not planned in the Budget. Worse, the Government knows that with the new capital rules of the European Central Bank, the New Bank does not need this capital injection, it is a bonus to the New Bank that, "costs what it costs, the Government wants to pay. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the investment implementation problems will not disappear and put at risk the recovery strategy set out in the Stability Programme. On the other hand, the Government's programme continues to ignore the country's structural problems: job insecurity, the lack of qualifications, the fragility of public services. Public servants have their salaries frozen more than a decade ago, without the government committing itself, in this multiannual programme, to any real recovery of their purchasing power. There will be no structural recovery of the SNS, nor bet on public school or science without qualified professionals, with careers and decent wages. In the medium term, it is not the bet on building that will respond to the ageing of the population, the lack of supply in preschool and specialized health care, nor even unemployment accumulated in sectors affected by the crisis, such as tourism. In the short term, there is a lack of commitments, as we have always said, with comprehensive solutions, to prevent over-indebted companies, impoverishment of families and the escape of professionals from the National Health Service for the private. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The 2021 budget, which three months after being approved, has proved inadequate to respond to the enormous problems facing the country today and in the future. To find solutions that strengthen labour rights, that combat precariousness, that strengthen social support, that fight poverty, that restore public services, that strengthen the SNS, the public school, we will be here as always. For that, they can always count on the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u94	Mr Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: Mr. Minister, two pesos and two measures are clearly what is shocking about what your Government's political options have been from the Land of Peace. Today we discuss the Stability Programme. You have been asked here several questions about TAP, for example, which is a project that will cost the country EUR 3000 million by 2022, to which by 2024 more EUR 484 million can be added. In view of these values, budgetary and financial risks are at stake, which can be descended and should not be neglected. But while for TAP or the New Bank there is always money, for absolutely fundamental areas for the country money never exists. These are two pesos and two measures, Minister. That's your mark. The weight of these risks does not coincide with a blank check logic, which only requires the TAP to cut the rule and frame and which only penalises the workers of the lowest stairs. There is an urgent need for an audit of TAP, which investigates and cleans the negotiations of private shareholders and intragroup businesses, and enables it to move forward towards accountability for those who are ruining the public record. Mr Minister, the question is whether or not the government will demand an audit, give answers that we have not yet had, and whether or not the government will also demand environmental compensation. Because, once again, Mr Minister, we return to the two pesos and to the two measures, in which for the private initiative there is often an investment for these private interests, but for what is the unique opportunity that the country has today, in line with either the PRR, or with the great options, to reverse our economy, to engage in entrepreneurship and a green economy, which so many jobs can bring to the country, for that there is never money. These are two pesos and two measures, Minister! But public money must also be used to finance projects or activities that contribute to greater environmental sustainability. But more: if the government opens the bonds to the stock market with TAP, the same cannot be said of so many other examples, including animal protection, which is always the poor relative of public policies in our country. There is no money or investment in this area, there is no money for nature watchers, there is no money for the canies, but recently - stop, Minister! — there were EUR 10 million for the hunting lobby. EUR 10 million! And we had to negotiate in this House of the Republic for dogs when it took EUR 32 million to cover the minimum needs that local authorities have claimed for many years. So, Mr Minister, I ask you: for this reason, which is the poor relative of public policies, what budgetary strategy will have in the medium term that does not deserve, at least, a reference to this theme in the Stability Programme? Despite the progress made, what we have seen is that there is no and they still have only one over-investment in the order of 33 % of the funds needed to comply with and answer in this area. Or do you actually have any strategy? We say again that for the NAP, this is a unique opportunity for the country, which does not co-operate with short-term vision options, which does not ensure the answers to the great challenges we have, such as the climate crisis and the socio-economic crisis of our country, and also needs to mitigate the regional asymmetries that persist. Failure on these fronts, Mr Minister, is literally to have the Land of the Peace to water and, once again, to have two pesos and two measures, whose weights of the balance always hang on the same side.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u96	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the beginning of 2020 Portugal and the world have experienced an unprecedented pandemic crisis. thus, the public authorities were obliged to adopt restrictive and health control measures, measures with great economic and social impact. Health is the priority. However, social support such as the simplified layoff allowed the effects on the employment and income of families to be reduced, as well as existing inequalities. One example of the effectiveness of these measures is that of the unemployment rate currently in Portugal is below the European average: 6, 5 % in March, compared with 6, 8 % in the last month of February. Of course, behind the numbers are realities and concrete people and the situation that some sectors are currently living, such as trade, tourism, restaurants or hotels, is still very difficult. However, Portugal has been an example, even when many would expect to fail. And today, with the defination and the ongoing vaccination process, the economic expectation can only be positive. It is in this context that we are discussing the Recovery and Resilience Plan, in the case of our country a financial package of EUR 13, EUR 9 billion. Repeat : 13, 9 billion euros! This plan is a demonstration that Europe has learned from the mistakes of previous crises, presenting a model of European solidarity. I would like to emphasise the example we are setting when we are the first country to formally deliver its plan to the European Commission, leading the process as it competes with us as a rotating Presidency. A naturally exceptional, temporary and massive plan, with a macroeconomic impact, of course, but also in the realm of the real economy, being an impetus for economic recovery. The Stability Programme, currently under discussion, envisages a real increase of 9, 1 % in the next two years. thus, I would like to stress that, according to the forecast, GDP will exceed pre-pandamia levels already next year, meaning a product growth of 3, 5 % at the end of the period, with an annual contribution of 0, 7 %. Mrs. Members, the Recovery and Resilience Plan presents as key vectors resilience, climate transition and digital transition, a new competitive green and digital economy internationally and in which combating inequalities, as well as territorial cohesion, are a priority. Public investment, criticised by the right opposition to Monday, Wednesday and Friday and demanded in the remaining days, is crucial as a response to the crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Who has torn and devilified public investment is now the one who defends everything and its opposite. instead of repeating to exhaustion, we are also talking on a large financial volume for the private sector. Direct investment in companies is EUR 4, EUR 9 billion and can reach EUR 7, EUR 2 billion with loans. Will you need more evidence of reality, which some want to deny? According to data from the Stability Programme — and not denied by the Public Finance Council — the multiplier effect of the PRR is clear: € 1, 4 per € 1. But in order to do so, investment must be of quality and ensure the necessary answers. Both public investment, and private investment that comes to be a quality investment. The transparency of the model is clear, by the monitoring committee set up, as well as by the transparency portal, which was presented yesterday by the Government. I stress to those who still have doubts that the PRR and economic recovery measures represent around EUR 17 billion on the horizon of this Stability Programme, with a value of measures to be 1, 7 % of the gross domestic product in 2022. We must be able to take advantage of this opportunity and not waste it on non-reproductive investments. Our country cannot waste this opportunity. In the PRR, in all data, I would like to stress more than EUR 1, EUR 3 million for the National Health Service – we know that some prefer private health –, EUR 2, EUR 7 billion for housing – the largest investment ever in housing –, the EUR 665 million for forests, or the values present in the areas of culture, the sea, after the public debate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order to discuss the PRR, we will have to do something together with other instruments, including the new Community Support Framework 2021 - 2027, with a package of EUR 33, EUR 6 billion, where we will find the possibility of financing above and with a later implementation of EUR 2026, plus EUR 11 billion to implement the remaining Community Support Framework Portugal 2020. thus, I would like to win that this Stability Programme is presented at a time of recovery and the government, together with municipalities, companies and workers of all sectors, aims to make the country grow, combat inequalities and, above all, promote hope and trust. This is the Stability Program! This is the Recovery and Resilience Plan that the country needs. Our design is the design of development and economic recovery. We all count on this design. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u98	The CDS still has a few seconds, which Mrs Cecilia Meireles will use properly in her speech. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u99	Mr President, I wanted to distribute three documents to the House, but I found it more appropriate to make an intervention. Mr Fernando Anastácio said I spoke of 1,000 companies. Let's see, I didn't talk about 1000 companies, I said that the PRR, in the context of capitalization, says that the result is to capitalize more than 1000 companies. I think this should be a grate, because 1,000 companies, in a country that has more than 1 million, are a drop of water in the ocean. I have the document with me. I just want you to explain it to me. Secondly, I would also like to make it clear that I did not comment, on the contrary, on the lack of public investment. I only said that it is false what Mr. Minister of Finance wrote in the Stability Programme, which is « Public Investment Recovery Trajectory, initiated by the Government in 2016. In 2016 public investment decreased... ». It's fake! It's a lie! And here's the core date, which won't let me lie. I wasn't even weaving considerations, I just wanted explanations. That you cannot even discuss the documents you produce and the facts you invoke, I think this is a frightening vision of politics. We disagree with opinions, not facts.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u100	The documents will, of course, be distributed to the Bureau. Let us now turn to the end of this debate. To that end, I give the floor to Mr. Minister of State and Finance, John Leon.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese know that there will be a country after the pandemic and that today's urgent decisions cannot ignore that there is a tomorrow full of challenges, to which it is also important to respond. The Stability Programme for the next four years, which we are defending today, points out answers to these challenges and creates the financial conditions for a strategy focused on a strong economic and social recovery in the country following the pandemic. This programme also benefits from the work done by the government in the period prior to the crisis, which for the first time in this century has brought Portugal to grow, in economic terms and in terms of employment, above the European average and which, at the same time, has managed to put the public accounts in order, having reached the first budgetary surplus of democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Because we have done this work at home, we can now, with confidence, present a strategy in which for the first time the country faces a crisis without austerity and in a way completely different from the previous crises and, in particular, from the last one, with a government led by the PSD. It was this capital that allowed us to face this crisis with an unprecedented reinforcement: investment in the National Health Service and its professionals; no cuts in wages and pensions, but, yes, with new and strengthened support for families and, in particular, those most affected by the crisis; with the financial system to be part of the solution and not part of the problem; without the exponential increase of unemployment, but with massive support for businesses, who are helping to maintain jobs. In this regard, I would like to highlight two figures: in the first quarter, support was given to companies, largely lost in the amount of around EUR 1200 million to support labour costs and other fixed costs, an increase of 150 % compared to the average monthly value allocated in the previous year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an example of the cost and the high value of the support we are giving, the highest in the first quarter in the European context. The main indicator of the effectiveness of State-wide support policies is the evolution of the unemployment rate. As we mentioned today, the INE announced an unemployment rate of 6, 5 %, a much lower value than that of the previous crisis during the PSD government, at which the unemployment rate reached 16, 2 % in 2013. The unemployment rate in Portugal also remains well below the euro area average — 6, 5 % versus 8, 3 % in the euro area — on the contrary, what happened during the PSD Government. It is a positive result that everyone should be proud of. We have managed to maintain productive capacity, and now we have confidence in a rapid economic recovery in the next six months and next year. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As I have had the opportunity to mention at the beginning of this debate, we are now closer to the end of the pandemic crisis and the signs of the ongoing recovery are already emerging, with the beginning of the recovery of exports and confidence indicators. It is therefore important to be clear about the recovery project for Portugal. It is a project based on the strong macroeconomic impulse of the Recovery and Resilience Program, in stimulating public and private investment, in promoting measures to maintain and create employment, in responding to the social effects of the pandemic, particularly in the recovery of programmed activity, in the area of health, and learning, in the education sector, with a special concern for the areas and sectors most affected by the pandemic. It is a project that guarantees fiscal stability, does not provide for tax increases to pay the crisis account or cuts in state social support. This is a strategy to bring Portugal back to growth, to boost the labour market, the competitiveness of businesses and the well-being of families. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : At the end of this debate, the Government's vision is clear. We look forward to changing the position of the main opposition party, the PSD, on public investment and social measures, and we hope that they are not merely parliamentary tactics. We know that there are other alternatives and strategies to face an economic crisis, such as the austerity strategy followed by the previous crisis or, more recently, in the discussion of the State Budget for 2021, where the main leader of the opposition, the leader of the PSD, said that he could not follow the Budget because he sat on the principle of wanting to give everything to everyone and give what he had and what he did not have. It is the same party that is now approving open measures that increase expenditure and call into question budgetary stability. And he is the same leader of the PSD who manifested itself in this House against the increase of the minimum wage to 1 million workers, because, he said, it was going to increase unemployment. It is the same party whose main responsibility for its strategy in 2019 defended the creation of a new IRS for the 2, 6 million poorest families, a tax known as « poll tax », which the former UK prime minister, Margareth Thatcher, tried to implement but failed. We see with satisfaction the possible conversion of the right to the virtues of public investment, not only because it would be an evolution to its history of scrapping public investment already committed, as, once again, it would be an reversal of what the main responsibility for the PSD strategy defended, in its book, in 2019, that is, that we should cut, and not increase, public investment to 1, 5 % of GDP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u102	Very weak!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government's response to the country's recovery is not based on austerity, on the contrary, on the priority given to economic growth, the strengthening of investment, the recovery of employment and family income. This is the way we want to travel to Portugal, because Portuguese have the right to a future with hope and prosperity. I end as I began: we are closer to winning the pandemic fight today, and this must give us more confidence in the battle that we have to wage for the economy. Recovery is already in progress. We are confident that the Government's options, expressed in the Stability Programme, will enable us to regain the path of economic growth, of improving social conditions, of sustainability of public finances and of maintaining our external credibility by Portugal and the Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u104	Let us now move on to the second point of our agenda, which is that of the assessment of Bill No 86 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Law of the Great Options for 2021 - 2025. To present the bill, Mr. Minister of Planning, Nelson de Souza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: this time, the Big Options have an important element for its reliability, guaranteed by a well-known additional source of funding, through the Recovery and Resilience Plan. As we know a week ago today, we formally submit our plan to the European Commission. We also know that for this reason we will not get any relevant material advantage other than a faster decision, which, as you know, we are demanding. But we have certainly given a decisive impetus to advance the implementation of this Mechanism of Recovery and Resilience in Europe of 27. This was recognised, in fact, immediately after the presentation of the document, by the President of the Commission and by three more Commissioners. Technicians, diplomats, Members and Euro MPs, we all worked on this and we also received contributions from many, but many Portuguese, in the hearing process, we thanked and had the opportunity to consider in the final version. We should all be grateful and grateful and acknowledge that, of course, we are pleased to deliver results with such great impact not only at national level but also at European level. As a result of the convergence of Community and national timetables, the Government was obliged to submit, within a short period of time, four reference documents, planning, budgetary planning or use of European funds. I am referring to the Stability Programme, which has just been the subject of debate in this House ; the National Reform Programme, which is currently the subject of discussion in the Council of Ministers ; the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is well known and submitted to Brussels, as I have had the opportunity to mention ; and finally to the document on the Big Options, which is now under consideration. As the interpenetrations and also the interdependences between all these four documents are evident, only an effective coordination work has been able to ensure the necessary coherence between them, either in terms of policies or in terms of their options, or in terms of their macroeconomic and budgetary impacts. It would be almost impossible for this government to have a road map, a strategic framework defined for a decade, the 2030 Strategy. For this reason, the Great Options are declined from this strategic framework, of the 2030 Strategy, focusing first on central issues for governance and public services, such as its quality, the defense of democracy, the fight against corruption, the valorization of the functions of sovereignty and Portugal's position in the world. The most operational dimension of sectoral government action is organized in the four thematic agendas set out by the 2030 Strategy: the first, favouring people; the second, innovation, digitization and qualifications; the third aimed at promoting climate and energy transition; the fourth aimed at a more balanced territorial development. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In short, Big Options around four targets, four objectives, four key recipients of this government's action: people, businesses, environment and territory. A final note: the profusion of baseline planning documents, produced at the same time, poses a serious risk of devaluation of their importance. I believe that we must first and foremost reflect in the European Union itself on the need to adjust the timetable for the European Semester and, secondly, at the national level, whether it will not be excessive the hiatus of time between the presentation of these Great Options and the start of the effective preparation of the State budget. I do not want, nor could the Government, of course, devalue the very importance that the law confers on the document now presented, but what I would like to ensure at this stage is that it must be appreciated by its own merits and never, in any way, anticipate and, much less, condition the debate on the State budget for 2022, to take place at the moment and at the most appropriate headquarters. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u106	First of all, good afternoon to all. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Members to make requests for clarification, so I would like to know how you want to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u107	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u108	I therefore have the floor, first of all, to ask for clarification, Mr Luís Testa, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u109	Mr President, Minister for Planning, the PRR is undoubtedly the point of discussing these Great Plan Options, not because it is a more important moment than others, but because it is a new moment. The PRR sets up a complementary programme for other existing realities, but it is not the alpha or omega of public investment policies. The RPP shall not be subject to other programmes and other plans, in particular multiannual financial frameworks. However, we do not ignore, do not ignore and even defend the great relevance of the PRR to the need for public investment that the country requires, according to the need to complement three essential objectives for its development. On the one hand, national cohesion is fundamental for the Portuguese to have equality between themselves and for the territories to be more and more equal; on the other hand, the acquisition of means and infrastructure, as regards the objective of national training; and on the other hand, as a way to dynamize the economy. And in this quadrant, it is absolutely essential that there be public investment, because this alone ensures efficiency, in particular through public procurement, money that reaches companies faster and more effectively. I would like to focus on one aspect which I think is particularly relevant: that of territorial cohesion. We are used to discussing territorial cohesion because we know that this is an essential factor for having a more harmonious and more developed country. It is not possible for a country that aims to be fully developed, in its entirety, to continue to waste much of its territory and thus much of the national effort, produced by a large part of the Portuguese. Territorial cohesion is fundamental to equal opportunities here, in Bragança, in Portalegre or in Beja. Indeed, having a harmonious country is what defines having a developed country or not. If we have a supplementary programme, as we now have, and the possibility of investing in the country complementaryly, it is good that we have the notion that this happens only because there is also a perception of decisive public investment in territorial cohesion. He could not fail to give the significant example of an investment registered in the PRR, which is that of the Pisão dam. We have this type of investment, investments made by the State, through our own funds and Community funds, means that we also have in these programmes the goal of the transformation of the country. Transforming the country with the use of funds coming from Europe is undoubtedly the objective of a programme drawn up by a government that looks at the country as a whole. I could not fail to rejoice and to demonstrate my satisfaction for the first time in many years, in decades, there is a programme that looks at national territory as a whole. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u110	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor now for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u111	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, the Great Plan Options (GOP) 2021 - 2025 update the Great Plan Options 2021 - 2023. The priorities are the same, although we are in the midst of the greatest recession that there is memory. So socialist bureaucrats don't seem very impressed, because they have all this planned, or rather, they have all this planned. The clarification I want is neither for myself, it is for the Portuguese, because I want, Minister, to clarify the Portuguese about the awkwardness of this planning. For this, I have to take a breath. The main options of the Plan have as reference the Government Programme and the diagnosis of the Portugal 2030 Strategy, which is shared with the European Commission, which, in turn, makes specific recommendations to the country, which are addressed in the National Reform Plan for 2021 and in the Stability Programme, which also refer to the Portugal 2030 Strategy. Do not confuse this Portugal 2030 Strategy with Portugal 2030!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u112	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u113	This is the new multi-annual financial framework — which, by chance, ends in 2027 — replacing Portugal 2020 — was even completed in 2020. Portugal 2030 and the rest of Portugal 2020, in turn, are accompanied by the Recovery and Resilience Plan, « bazouca» for friends, which integrates the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism of the European Next Generation EU package.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u114	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u115	I will finish, Mr. President. With so much plan and so much clarity, how can it go wrong? Oh, my God! The government is doing everything to get it to go wrong: it does not present results of the measures so far, or even the timetable of future measures, nor commits itself to the result, and puts us to discuss the GOPs six months before discussing the Budget, as provided for in the new LEO (Budget Framework Act), but without the multiannual budget, which is the part that the PS has adjourned from the new LEO, which also provided for it. More Kafkian than this only if Kafka himself worked in the government. Now that I think about it, it's not entirely impossible.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u116	Mr President, you have already exceeded your speaking time in 50 seconds. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u117	So, Minister, I ask the following: how can we trust that all this is well thought out? Or again, is it time to draw rainbows in the windows, make figs and think it's gonna be okay?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u118	The honourable Member of the PSD Group, Mr Rui Cristina, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u119	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members, the major options of the Plan now presented are an update of the previous PDOs and, according to the Government, bring the necessary adjustments to the short-term crisis response measures. I can't help but agree with this purpose. Unfortunately, I cannot see the way forward in this document to achieve this wish, even though the country has more financial resources than the European budget. The housing is mentioned in the document some impressive 46 times. In financial terms, it is said that there will be about €2.7 billion to invest. The aim is even to achieve a total of 35 000 fires by 2026 and we have also heard Mr. Prime Minister say at the commemorations of 25 April that the serious housing problems would be resolved in Portugal. It is true to say that there is no hunger that does not fill up. Do not keep on seeking. ” The problem, Minister, is that this framework of pink intentions has not been reflected in the State budget for 2021, much less in 2019, 2017 or 2016, despite the launch of national housing strategies and the millions of euros that have been promised from one side to the other. The government has made the problem worse and has done nothing to answer it. Notice, Minister: INE's 2020 housing statistics indicate an increase of 8% of the value of buildings in a pandemic year. The average value of the houses sold in Portugal has risen by more than 30 % in five years and a new historic peak of the increase in the price of the houses was reached in 2020. For example, in Loule, where I am, in the Algarve, where the crisis is deep, not a single housing was rented through the Accessible Rent Program. What people want to know is how a family can rent a T0 for 400 €, a T2 for 775 € or a T3 for more than 1000 € with wages below 900 €, or in a situation of unemployment, which is increasingly spreading. So I ask you, in the face of the worsening situation of housing in the country, the following: will the government take into account and adapt to the concrete conditions in the various regions of the country? Where does it benefit? How will the necessary adjustments to the short-term crisis response measures work, which the Government so much announces? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u120	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u121	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greens recognise some positive aspects in the Big Options, particularly in the fight against climate change, which we have been defending. However, the Great Options continue to be conditioned by European Union taxes and a strategic vision of the government that is beyond what is necessary to effectively make our country more sovereign, more coherent, more sustainable and more resilient. The appreciation of work, which is a determining element to promote more justice in the distribution of wealth and to improve the living conditions of families, does not include the Big Options, when it could represent a decisive contribution to promoting domestic demand. The strengthening and re-qualification of the network of equipment and social responses, for example, of support for the elderly, affects the income of the custom: with the State resigning itself from direct responsibility, delegating this competence in the social sector, when the response has to be public, avoiding the structural problems that occur in a large part of the homes today. The same applies to protected areas. The option is to de-responsibility of the State through co-management projects, in a clear incentive to privatization and to exacerbate the lack of human resources and resources that call into question biodiversity and nature itself. Although the Great Options make the environment a flag, the Government insists on exploiting mineral resources, as is the case with lithium, which will affect a very significant part of the Central and Northern regions of the country, farms which have, in fact, deserved a strong challenge from the populations, particularly in areas where there are already exploration and exploitation contracts, such as Argemela, Boticas or Montalegre. On the other hand, the Big Options turn the Environmental Fund into a bottomless fund, where everything that does not find funding ends up stopping. In fact, Mr Minister, the Environment Fund is increasingly complex and increasingly transparent, being increasingly away from its objectives of supporting environmental policies, including policies related to nature conservation, biodiversity, waste, water resources and also climate change. We are also talking about little ambitious options regarding the need to preserve our water resources, soils and endogenous biodiversity itself, affected by the proliferation of invasive species, such as wespa-Asian, acacias, water basins or even catfish. However, Mr Minister, I would like to leave you a question concerning asbestos, an option which the Government did not consider. The Great Options leave asbestos outside when it should be a priority in order to comply, even with the legislation that requires the realization of a list of public buildings with the presence of this material, and a plan for its removal must also be created. It is that when we talk about asbestos, we also talk about safeguarding public health. It would therefore be important for the Minister to explain to us the Government's option to leave the Great Options the lifting and withdrawal of asbestos from public buildings. We believe it was important for the Minister to comment on this option in particular, not to include in the Big Options the plan to remove asbestos. [[Congrats from PCP MP Duarte Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u122	Mr Hugo Pires of the PS has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after the PSD government has put the fight against climate change in the drawer, the Socialist Party has come to print a new blow to this challenge. It proves this is the fact that the four strategic agendas of these Big Options include combating climate change, climate transition and the sustainability of our resources between 2021 and 2025. Portugal today can be proud to be one of the countries leading the fight against climate change: we were the first country to compromise on carbon neutrality; we are one of the countries that is in the best position to achieve the mid-term goals; from 2015 to 2019, we have reduced 26% of our carbon emissions and today we are a global reference in combating climate change. But now we want more, we want more ambition and greater speed in climate transition. These Big Options reflect that same, this ambition to print more speed. But this ambition cannot leave anyone behind, no worker, for example, from companies that have to be restructured and from polluting sectors. We know that there will be a number of instruments to support this amendment, this climate transition, including the Right Transition Fund, the Environment Fund, green taxation and the Green Bank. Mr Minister, we are talking about many million euros for the climate transition, for the fight against climate change and for sustainable development. The question I ask you is whether there is any integrated vision of all these instruments, so that we can move towards a more carbon-neutral and sustainable society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u124	In reply, Mr. Minister of Planning has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would first of all take the question of the housing strategy raised by the PSD Member. He took advantage of the importance that the dimension of resilience, achieved by the way of strengthening social networks, takes place within the framework of the Recovery and Resilience Plan. We have, from the notion of how the country gains resilience and the importance that we attach to social networks, an unequivocal interpretation—and this is a lesson learned by us, as a result of the struggle counts the pandemic—which is the following: much of the resilience stems from the response that our social systems can give in the fight against these situations, these shocks, whether coming from the health side or even from the economic side. That is why we choose as the top priority very powerful, well-sized and well-identified investments in the area of health, in the area of housing, in the area of the reception responses of the elderly, children,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that is, in all that constitutes the first response to crises, whether they are sanitary, economic or social. This is therefore a clear option of the national recovery and resilience programme that we have clearly had work to explain to the European Commission, along with the most easy to explain bet because it was embedded in the Community policies itself of digital transition and climate transition. But we also included in this dimension of resilience another dimension, which Mr Luís Testa very well pointed out, which is the issue of territorially balanced development, of territorial cohesion, which, in the case of our country, was also important to ensure. We see, as a result of this pandemic, that there were more vulnerable territories, which had more difficulties, which is already characteristic of their structural incapacity, and that is why we also have a set of particularly designed and directed investments for the most vulnerable and less density territories. I quote, for example, investments that are essential for mitigating, to minimize, the threats arising from drought, as is the case with the Pisão dam. The great threat to that territory of the High Alentejo is drought, which undermines the prospect of development and causes the progressive depopulation that has been suffering. Therefore, the idea of creating that complex, which, more than a dam, is a complex, is the idea of providing a differentiation, dynamizer and creator of employment dynamics, of opportunities for people living there, so as to overcome the impasse in which that territory lies. We therefore have very specific examples. Sometimes they have already criticized us: "Oh, but this is all known projects. There is no novelty in many of the investments. » No, there is no news! The big news is that these projects were in the drawer 10, 15, 20 years ago! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have already had occasion to say that we have now had the opportunity to open the drawers and put the dreams of many people, of many territories, of many Portuguese on the table, to realize them over the next five years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So this is the bet we make on the social. We will now realize the following: we do not have any kind of complex and do not make a priori division, we do not place any accounts in the pocket of each of the recipients of the PRR. We don't do the math because our idea is not to be distributing money by types of beneficiaries. We, a priori, do not count the money that goes to the public and the money that goes to the private. [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] This depends on our strategy, and what our strategy says is that there is support that is justified both to the private and to the public within the framework of the PRR, to the extent that this corresponds to the strategy. We have a private investment support strategy that will contribute to our improvement objectives. In what? In the qualification of Portuguese: whenever companies invest in the qualification of Portuguese, they have significant money at their disposal. In the digitisation of companies: whenever companies want to invest in digitisation, they have significant money at their disposal. In the discharge of Portuguese companies: companies also have resources available to them, and, above all, at their disposal there will be hundreds of millions of euros, close to EUR 1000 million, which, in the last phase, have been strengthened by more than EUR 300 million for real mobilising agendas that can make a decisive contribution to improving the profile of specialisation towards activities that generate greater added value, which generate more qualified employment, of course, more well paid. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what we want and that is what we bet on in the future. All this adds up to a weight that can be compared. Now, they already have the opportunity to progressively compare our plan with those of others because, a week after we delivered our plan, the other plans finally began to emerge. Of course, they are plans that are not totally equal, but they will have an opportunity to compare, so that they are not doing assessments here just to know - forgive me the expression - how much « it falls to each one», because that is not our perspective. Our perspective is to meet the development goals of our economy, of our regions, especially with a view to ensuring that people are sustainable development towards what we all want, which is a more just, more equal, more stable and capable of better resisting future shocks. This is the objective of the PRR. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u126	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: when reading the Big Options, we realize that we are facing a profession of faith in the millions of European bazouca, forgetting that there are problems in the country that cannot wait for the success or not of the bazouca. In fact, Mr Minister, it seems that we have an oasis, a land promised ahead of us, forgetting that this money may take a long time to come and that Portugal has to start rebuilding itself and rebuilding its economy, based on a transition to a greener and more sustainable economic model. It is not enough to proclaim the words climate transition or climate justice so that this will happen on its own. Let us see, from the outset, why Portugal has a history, which we cannot fail to mention, of non-implementation of European funds, something that is seen, for example, in the multiannual financial framework 2014 / 2020, in which only EUR 14 670 million has been executed. Within the framework of the 'bascas' and other European funds, Portugal will have to run in 10 years 54,259 million euros. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, there is no measure in the Big Options Act that tries to solve this problem or at least mitigate it. How can this implementation be successful if national companies are currently decapitalized and will hardly be able to present credible projects in time and time and with the quality necessary to obtain the approval of the European Commission? How can the implementation succeed if our Public Administration, due to the requirement of prior authorizations from the Ministry of Finance, is lacking human resources in general and in particular technically prepared human resources? None of this is answered by the Government and it is clear that we are at risk of repeating the failure to implement the European funds. Even looking at the strategic axes of the Recovery and Resilience Plan that are reproduced or mirrored in the Law of the Great Options, we see that, in environmental matters, if it falls short of the challenges we face in combating climate change, which presents insufficiently substantiated proposals, and in fact, proposals incompatible with sustainable development. And here, Minister, let me tell you that the Pission dam does not solve the country's problems. In fact, Mr Minister overlooks the negative environmental impacts of the dams themselves. More: there is indeed a clear inconsistency between the measures and the narrative. Let us see, Minister: the climate change and the extreme events associated with it require a new planning of the territory, an arrangement which sets out in the relocation of some coastal infrastructures, in the resilience of existing infrastructures, as well as a new water, forestry and agricultural planning. But what the government is proposing to us is blind planning, which does not protect the people or the territory, which does not guarantee economic value in the investment made. For the NAP, the way should be to create a risk atlas for national, regional and local climate change and to ensure that structural public investment is accompanied by studies of the economic, social and environmental value of the measures presented. How much longer will the government be investing with a sale in the eyes and without ensuring the economic value of the investment made? How is it that, without these two mechanisms and without a logic cost-effectiveness, we can rehabilitate and readjust the needs of the country and strengthen the protection infrastructures, the rehabilitation of the coastal system or the strengthening of the donor cord and the sand recharges? in this sense, Minister, we ask once again what are the basis of the government for such decisions that have been omitted in its speech? But this plan has a lot more contradictions. How can we make sworn love of renewable energy and the decarbonisation of the economy and then defend a reduction in oil consumption from only 15% to 2030? How can we speak of economic decarbonisation without providing for effective decarbonisation measures in the food sector, particularly in livestock, which is crucial in combating climate change? How can we speak in a sustainable sea economy and then defend the unlimited extraction of animal, plant and mineral resources in the Azores Sea? How can it be said that if you want to maintain ecosystems and preserve biodiversity and then defend a bet in the sea with fishing, aquaculture and fish processing? There are many examples we could give, Minister. The opportunity we have of the so-called European bazouca is one and only one and climate change is not in the future, they are here knocking on our door. Portugal has the opportunity to take the lead as an ecologically committed country, so the Minister and his Government know how to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u128	For an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Big Options discussed here today are in summary an update of the Big Options that were adopted in December 2020. As a novelty, it includes information on the implementation of the multiannual financial framework 2014 - 2020, the so-called PT2020, a synthesis of the PRR and information on the next multiannual financial framework — three important instruments of economic recovery, of which will depend almost everything on the Big Options. However, it is the Economic and Social Council's own opinion that most of the points in this update lack realisation and that only one statement of strategic axes is made. One of the most obvious examples of this lack of realisation has to do with public services in general. In fact, it is the government itself that recognizes it. It acknowledges that with this document it only resumes the 2030 Strategy, deepening matters that were already prior but without further progress, as they have not moved forward before. There is, however, a point that needs to be noted. at this time, public investment is on the agenda of the debate in Parliament. On the one hand, on the right, one tries to test the criticism of an alleged excess of public investment, which would have too much weight. It is not that it is a surprising narrative, but it is a narrative that has no credibility, because the country knows that it is investment in public services and goods, such as health or rail, which allows us to leverage the economy, responding to the pandemic crisis and the environmental crisis. On the other hand, we have the government saying that it is now, that the PRR has a big word, that we are obliged to execute it by 2026 and so now, yes, things are going to move forward. It is necessary to remember the projects that were in plans a few years ago, in large options, in strategies, but they never saw the light of the day. Some of them were even poured into State Budget laws, but feared not to be executed. « Now it is! », but there are EUR 1500 million that never came out of the government's public investment frameworks in 2020. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot simply choose to ignore these numbers when we look at public investment announcements and projects associated with them today, even more so when we know that before the summer there is nothing to be expected of the so-called 'European bazouca'. It is necessary to look at public investment as what it is, i.e. the engine of economic growth and progress of the country, which is central to strengthening the National Health Service and education, essential to respond to climate change, through strengthening a railway network that has spent decades on abandonment, important to combat inequalities and discrimination. Those who criticize public investment forget that these and other issues create the conditions for the economy to function. The Big Options, despite listing strategic agendas that recognize these objectives, are very vague about concrete measures and policies to implement such agendas. They fail, for example, to identify work and labour legislation as a central point of employee valuation policies as well as public services themselves. They are not ambitious when they renounce the clear objective of strengthening national production to reduce the dependence of the Portuguese economy on imports in some determining areas, where we can even guarantee a strong productive capacity and even export. Such targets are also absent from the PRR which reflects the vision of the European institutions in the chapter of the productive capacity of countries such as ours, especially affected by the constraints of the European Semester policy and the Stability Programme itself. The Great Options we are debating today do not bring anything new in all these matters. We will certainly need more realisation, more public investment; we need to stop delaying budgeted investments until the day in which we make the most of it; we need to look at the structure of work in Portugal and take advantage of the moment we are living to remove, once and for all, the troika of labour legislation and give rights and dignity to those who work; we need to carry out the announcements on the importance of rail in the country. Concrete and execute are keywords, but little appears. We find no sign of these solutions in this document, but the Left Block never gives up and we will make every debate, every proposal, every struggle for which we are called for justice in response to the crisis also in the Great Options. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u130	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : With regard to the presentation of this proposal for the Big Options Act, it is justified to point out the major disagreements expressed by the CFP and the clear losses of these rules of the Budget Framework Act which impose the presentation of this document in an outdated period in view of the discussion of the State budget. This is a logic which is inserted into a framework of submission to the European Union, through the budgetary treaty, and which is now seeking to condition the decisions of the State budget. We said at the time, and we say today, that the new LEO was a form of the PSD/CDS-PP government, with the support of the PS as well, seeking to impose the perpetuation of neoliberal policies, with absurd and unjustified budgetary rules, which call into question the possibility of the country to exercise its right to make a sovereign decision about its collective future. However, in the view of the CFP, this and other rules of the budgetary treaty do not overlap with this constitutional principle: the proposal for a State Budget is submitted by the Government, is discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, the parties submit and vote amendments in the speciality, and the approval of the budget of the responsibility of the Republic Assembly and of no other institution. We are well aware that the technocrats in Brussels and Lisbon do not comply with a budgetary process that is democratic and not technocrat. It is not up to them and therefore they invent these mechanisms to condition the budgetary debate. To make our position on this Law of the Great Options clear, the discussion we have about it, its approval or rejection, its contents will in no way condition the PCP's assessment and initiative in the State Budget for 2022. It was lacking that, when we were still only four months old from the implementation of the State budget for 2021, we were already beginning to condition the next budget! What is required of the Government at this time is to focus on the implementation of the country's responses to problems and also on the measures introduced in the State budget for 2021 at the initiative of the CFP, which are instruments for that response. They need to be implemented! They are: investments in the SNS, with the construction and requalification of hospitals and health units, which were stipulated in the Budget verbales; contracts of doctors, health professionals, operational assistants for schools, personnel of the forces and security services, without delay. Apart from the payment of the 100 % salary in layoff, the increases in pensions, the extension of the unemployment allowance, the new social support, which are already in effect, it is required that the risk allowance be applied to all essential employees, even those who have subcontracted or those who have individual employment contracts, and this is not what is happening. Support to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, without discrimination on the basis of the code of economic activity, as also stipulated in the State budget, and the exemption from the payment on behalf of the undertakings requesting it must be applied in accordance with the Budget Act, on the initiative of the CFP. Dispensation of payment on account is the company's request and not by any other criterion, without prejudice to other options in the meantime advanced by the Government, such as payment in benefits, which does not replace the possibility of companies resorting to suspension of payment. Support is needed, in fact, to businesses, families, those who have lost nothing, without subterfuges that limit their scope. The implementation of public investment must also provide public services with means to boost the economy. The CFP will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget by step. Before conditionaling future discussions with a law of the Great Options, what is required is to implement these measures of the State budget to 2021, which are the key to responding to the problems we face, rather than the Government's insistence on the priority to the accelerated reduction of the deficit, even in the context of suspending European rules. This is still the great obsession of the government. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u132	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Eduardo Teixeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has presented to us today the bill defining the Great Plan Options, the GOPs, for the period from 2021 to 2025, in its first version after the revision in 2020 of the Budget Framework Act. Today, therefore, the options and guidelines for economic policy and the multiannual budget programming for the next five years are presented, in addition to this legislation, which makes the absolute rigour of this guidance document even more important. But instead, the process seems at least shaken and seriously impairs the necessary scrutiny of this bill in this House. Of course, the Great Plan Options are accompanied by an opinion of the social partners seated in the Economic and Social Council, in the ESC, in accordance with the Constitution, but this year it has been made in a very poor way. The proposal submitted to the ESC had two absolutely crucial elements: the macroeconomic scenario and the multi-annual framework for public expenditure of the subsectors of public administration, central and social security. The Government has asked the social partners to make a statement on a document which does not contain the essential elements for a proper assessment of the plausibility of the assumptions on which it is based, with due weighting of the economic and budgetary policy commitments now to be approved. Indeed, the GOPs face exactly the same bias as the Stability Programme, which has been discussed recently, because both the macroeconomic scenario and the outlook for the coming years in budgetary matters are totally dependent on the implementation of the Recovery and Resilience Plan. The implementation of this plan is thus more than uncertain by two orders of reason that the Government has not taken care to ensure. The first is the subject of a serious call for attention from the Council of Public Finance. There is an ambitious, unrealistic forecast of public investment in the coming years, of about EUR 10 billion coming from the PRR, which are not specified or detailed. A blank sheet appears to us, which makes it impossible to guarantee both the concrete policy options that underpin it, or even the likelihood of the aggregate numbers that are mentioned. Moreover, the realization of these billions of hidden public investment is a very substantial part of the economic growth envisaged in the PDOs, which foresees investment in 2022, making it unrealistic. This will hardly happen, being numbers for a good socialist propaganda exercise but not an exercise responsible for rigor and sanctioning public policies. The other certainty that the GOPs bring us also concerns the history of this government, the inability to carry out what it projects on European and Community funds and its transformation into public investment expenditure. This is the approach angle of the UTAO: the overbudgeting government is systematically reading — underexecuting — and by a wide margin, what it foresees in terms of the capacity to raise European resources and public investment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the characteristic mark of the current Government of Portugal, clearly in the statements of the Minister of Finance, still this week, in the amazing allocation of blame to the Government of the PSD / CDS-PP for not leaving in 2015, — stop! — projects ready to be implemented and for the PS five years after 2020 to do more than the PSD/CDS-PP investment government. The gross mistification of numbers and the unbelievable shift of blame to a government that has ceased its function for six years now do not solve the problem: the government is unable to make investment and this inability is its brand image. Without guarantees that there will be special mechanisms capable of overcoming, the Government has transformed the PRR into an extension of the Stability Programme and the Major Options of the Plan, now under consideration, which are also based on it, into a fiction. If the government continues to govern as it has ruled in recent years, fiction will have exhausted its servantship in a good number of electoral propaganda. A rational being, who tries to predict behaviors based on reality, can only foresee one thing: they will accomplish both what they now propose as much as what they have done in each of the last six years, that is, sadly little, very little. A new tragically lost opportunity is guessed. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For all this, this proposal for a GOP law for the next five years cannot merit our approval. It is our future and collective subsistence that are at stake. You can't hesitate or fall into these socialist illusions! We have a future, we believe, but we have to fight for it with all our strengths and energies. That is why the PSD calls on this government more and more on behalf of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u134	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u135	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government : The plan brought us here seeks to create and feed the narrative that there are some who defend public investment and others who defend non-public investment, when that is nothing that is at stake. What is at stake is wrong public investment or excessive investment. We do not want to repeat the 2011 crisis in which the Socialist Government has placed us and which then forced us not to know how many years of corrections. The doubt between public investment or non-investment is neither dogmatic nor ideological, the doubt is between the true public investment. I give you an example, Minister : the Plan refers to the strengthening of the number of users with a family doctor and a family nurse, so you are certainly ignoring what your Prime Minister said in 2016 about the fact that in two years everyone has a family doctor. What's it good for us to be here approving plans, when we know it won't be worth anything or when, last year, Mrs. Health Minister promised that everyone would have a family nurse? Here we come and nothing! The Plan refers to physical education and sport — the great incentive, and well, of the Government — but you know how many gyms and sports schools have closed during the pandemic, with zero support from the Government? The promotion of physical exercise and sport is a fundamental area. Recently, Mr Duarte Alves said, and well, the CFP cannot be conditional upon the approval of this Plan. I shall finish, Mr President — I know that my time is coming to an end, or rather, has come to an end — I do not know that the strategy, Mr President, is that it is, that is, the government wants to condition the CFP and BE to have no disagreements in the next State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u136	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u137	The strategy is « approve or I will leave », « hold me or I will leave », an excuse for then being able to resign and stop ruling Portugal. This is the strategy! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u138	Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members : We can note that this is an extremely important debate, but the fact is that for many, many years now, the debate of the Great Options, whether with plan or without it, is of the most useless debates of this Parliament. The only thing that could have saved this debate was that the government had brought something that would add in terms of options or, for example, in terms of consistency. We could have here an update of the Big Options that considered the situation of the pandemic crisis in which we live and that aligns in coherence with the Stability Programme that we discussed about an hour ago, with the National Reform Programme that the Government approved today in the Council of Ministers or with the PRR that the Government has just submitted to Brussels, having a general framework of all this, but that is not what happened. We have an edition of the Great Options revised and supposedly updated, but it is not updated, because this government continues to define its Great Options as if nothing had happened, as if the force of Portuguese socialism were such that even the pandemic and its effects were beyond the Great Options and the extraordinary planning of Portuguese socialism. Mr President, recently, this moment was really very important, because it was finally going to be able to execute what had been in the drawer for so long. Mr Minister, I suggested that you read the previous Great Plan Options to see how many PRRs you needed to get out of the drawer, or get out of the text, all that you've already found from these extraordinary plans, so that it would actually change something really useful. And that is where the question is: does it change anything, whether with the Big Options, or with the other documents, in what is essential for Portugal? We will put only two previous points and two future challenges. First point: economic growth. In recent years, until the beginning of the pandemic, we had the greatest opportunity for the Portuguese economy to grow significantly. You have ruled over the country during this period, but you have managed to make Portugal lose places in economic growth, compared with European Union partners with economies similar to ours, and now they present for the future planning instruments with substantial funding, maintaining a very weak ambition for this economic growth. Second point: social cohesion. During this great opportunity, we also lost positions in relation to GDP per capita, compared with other countries similar to ours. Looking at these Big Options, or even any of the other documents, I ask: do we see the source there so that we can achieve, in GDP per capita but, above all, in social cohesion, progress in relation to our current situation? We don't see! The Minister has said, in other debates we have had, that the CDS has often agreed to the objectives. True, Mr Minister, the problem is that we agree with the objectives, but we do not agree with the solutions. Therefore, for the objectives we have, and it seems that the government also has, we present quite different solutions from those presented by the Socialist Party and the Government. We wanted to see here objectives that would meet the challenge of digitization and the challenge of climate change; that would respond to the challenge of the qualification and professional conversion of Portuguese people, allowing them to think of those who, in the context of digitisation, will have substantial challenges in their careers, so that they can, with the help of public investment, acquire the tools needed to respond to this challenge; that they would respond to the challenge of competitiveness in Portuguese companies, so that they would have a tax system that would allow them to gain competitiveness in relation to their partners and that they would have sufficient support to ensure that, in the context of the challenges of climate transition, they would not have any more obstacles. But unfortunately, none of this is visible in this plan—we are not the ones who say it, the Economic and Social Council itself says it. These types of debates are the color of the socialists' pink world: they are endless plans, it is money as never before. For those who do not see these pink dreams, we liked that there was no consequence that normally have these debates of the socialist pink world: we will stay behind, as always. That's the big challenge. Honestly, we do not see how this government will ensure that we do not stay behind, as always, and that, after more than a huge opportunity, we will not regret the lost competitiveness and social cohesion that we cannot achieve.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u140	For an intervention, Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In fact, this is the time to discuss the Big Options, but it is also the time for parliamentary groups to present their ambitions and their strategy for the country. This is the contribution we hoped to see here from the various parliamentary groups. The public investment which Mr Minister here announced aims to boost private investment. This is a public investment in people, businesses, the environment, the territory, and this is fundamental. We cannot, on the one hand, have those who say that the instruments are weak, that they are not planned, and, on the other hand, when it comes to planning, who devalues this discussion. This is deeply wrong. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I shall devote myself, Mr Minister, to speaking on a high priority for this government and for this parliamentary group, health. Portugal has managed to face, with resilience, the huge challenge that the COVID-19 pandemic has brought us and it was possible only because of our social state and its important pillar that is the National Health Service. We know we owe your professionals... [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] Mr. Deputies, the risk allowance is being paid to about 5000 people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u142	What about the others?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u143	The others will also have their payment, of course. I would like to highlight the contribution of this government and Parliament to being able to respond to this pandemic by articulating science and working towards a common goal: to control this pandemic at the level of our country, of Europe and also of the world, because we know that only with global objectives and coordination, for which we have a duty to work, will we be able to stop this pandemic. It is crucial that we know the starting point, as it was crucial for the PS to have continuously strengthened resources to meet their needs, the needs of the National Health Service, people, families and businesses. We must not forget that, at the end of 2015 and at the beginning of this crisis, public finances were balanced, public services were strengthened, and the instruments we had in mind were particularly directed towards social cohesion. With regard to health — this is a priority — and to the National Health Service, I note that in 2020 there was a significant increase in total expenditure. Also in 2021, this expenditure increased by 5 %, 9 % and I note that the increase in the expenditure relevant to staff reveals that their human resources have been, and are, essential for dealing with this pandemic. As a result, these staff expenditure increased by 10 %, reflecting an increase of about 10 000 health professionals. These intervention axes of the Great Options, in the area of health, are aimed at promoting the prevention of diseases, promoting the universality of their access, strengthening public health, strengthening mental health and palliative care. Therefore, the Recovery and Resilience Plan, where they are dedicated to health 1380 million euros, is very relevant for primary care, integrated care and palliative care. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that of course we must continue this path of strengthening the National Health Service and that it is with hope, with confidence in the resumption of control of our lives and with a sense of responsibility that we will continue to work in Parliament and, we believe, in conjunction with the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u144	We will move on to the closing stage of the debate. To that end, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: At the close of this debate, I would like to say that we are now available to continue it, in the field of expertise, as we are available to accept suggestions that can improve the reference document for our action. As I have already pointed out in my initial speech, the Big Options, of course, have enhanced financial coverage, plus an additional RPP, are at least EUR 14 billion in grants, plus a significant amount in loan components, which creates very relevant additional security, not only in terms of volume but also because it focuses on our priorities and on the priorities of these Big Options. It is aligned with what is most important to do and therefore these priorities will gain additional funding. Also on this subject, I would like to inform Parliament of the following: the fruit of decades and decades of devaluation of this function of planning in models of governance in the western world, of market economies, the fruit of an already old prevalence, would say emerging in the 1980s of the past century, of nature and neoliberal charis, or even liberal, which, in fact, completely devastated this essential competence, which constituted the main matrix of the social state and which built the social state to which democratic civilization owes so much, having its highest expression in Western Europe,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... as a result of the inaction of successive governments which, since then, have happened, this capacity of the Public Administration has never been restored and successive governments have not been able to stop this devaluation. We all know the Public Administration 20 years ago, 15 years ago, 10 years ago, and we realized that the final stockpiling in this structure was given during the last financial crisis, with the complete destruction of what was left of this planning machine in terms of supporting this function which is essential for the State to fulfil its role. And it's not just to plan public investment, it's to have prospective capacity, so important in these times of uncertainty and so relevant to be able to choose between paths. For what? To produce documents that will enable us to decide better and to look forward to our future. Of course, the Government of the Socialist Party interprets a market economy in the light of its values and does not believe that the market, by itself, adjusts and rationally affects all its resources. He is not able to do alone and does not dispense a regulatory intervention, in fact, as it was proven before society with what happened at this time of pandemic crisis. The whole society realized, everyone realized that the state should be present and that it was the last refuge for the entire population, who asked for help for the essential problems in a crisis situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the last organic restructuring, the Government has decided to set up the Ministry of Planning within its scope, it has already created a specialized competence centre, designated as the APP Plan, which has decided to recruit, and has already recruited, close to 100 technicians to allocate to this structure, which will be responsible for monitoring these planning activities and coordinating a network of centralized nuclei and located in the various ministries. For what? To strengthen our capacity in this area, to support, monitor, monitor and support the Government in the development of this activity. It has nothing to do with a purely ideological perspective, but rather with what must be a modern state oriented towards a more rational management of public policies. Therefore, the opposition parties forget these absolutely reductive and retrograde views about the current conception of a modern state, a state that naturally does not lack its essential function without losing sight that, in a process of development of public policies, should convene all sectors and all protagonists, whether public or private. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u146	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the second item on the agenda. We then move on to the voting period for which we have more than enough quorum, with 221 ladies and gentlemen. Member States. I request the Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha to read out the Voting Project No. 554 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the PCP ) — regretting the death of Roland Weyl.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « At the age of 102, on 20 April, French lawyer Roland Weyl died, honorary president of the International Association of Democratic Jurists ( AIJD ). Born in a law-related family, he entered the Paris Lawyer Order in 1939 and was forbidden to practise the profession during the Nazi occupation. Member of the Resistance, joined the French Communist Party in 1946 and also engaged in the French Peace Movement, whose national council belonged to. Roland Weyl has always distinguished himself as a politically interventional citizen. He was founder and leader of the International Association of Democratic Jurists, in 1946. Much of his professional activity was dedicated to political defense of political, trade union and anticolonial militants. He was author of a vast and multifaceted bibliography, legal and social themes, and led the essay of the Contemporary Law Revue from 1954 to 1991. Dean of the Order of Lawyers of France, since 2010. Friend of Portugal, Roland Weyl stood out in support and solidarity for Portuguese political prisoners and exiles. In 1962, he moved to Lisbon to attend the Octavio Pato trial before the plenary tribunal, having presented a report to the Conference of the Western European Countries by Amnesty to the Portuguese Political Prisoners and Exileds, held in Paris in December of that year, where he denounced the incidences of the said trial and the lack of freedom of lawyers to defend political prisoners. In 2018, on the verge of reaching 100 years of age, he personally took part in the meeting of the International Association of Democratic Jurists in Lisbon. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting on 29 April 2021, expressed its regret at the death of Roland Weyl and expressed its condolences to its relatives, the International Association of Democratic Jurists and the Portuguese Association of Democratic Jurists. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u148	I inform the House that Ms. Maria Madalena Marques dos Santos and Mr. Hugo Dionisio, both of the Portuguese Association of Democratic Jurists, are present in the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the legislative part of the draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We moved on to the Voting Project No. 555 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities and signed by the Par and Members of the PS and PSD ). I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with his reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last 3 and 4 April, Timor-Leste was hit by torrential rains that caused lands full and landslides as a result of the passage of the Seroja cyclone. So far, there is information of 50 dead and more than 7000 displaced in the capital, Díli. The intense and violent rains had already caused problems in several municipalities in the country in recent days, with reports of destroyed houses and other affected infrastructures, including roads and bridges. in a preliminary report by the Secretary of State for Civil Protection of Timor-Leste, it is reported that more than 2000 families have been significantly affected, with the survey and assessment of emergency needs still occurring in several locations. In the municipality of Viqueque, Civil Protection has already identified at least 420 families affected by bad weather, for which a first emergency support is being channeled. In Covalima, there are preliminary records of damage that affect 45 families in the village of Halik, Beco juice, with the evaluation to be hampered by the fall of a bridge. In the municipality of Baucau, the bad weather has affected several families in several juices in the region, and today is still undergoing further investigation of the damage. In Manufahi, in addition to the fatal victims, there are at least four families affected and in Bobonaru there are two families who need humanitarian support. These are already considered the worst full that the country has known in recent years, causing serious humanitarian and material damage to the population of Timor-Leste, and deserve attention among the international community, welcoming the prompt provision of humanitarian aid by the Portuguese Government, the European Union and the United Nations. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its solidarity with the people and authorities of Timor-Leste and expresses its deepest condolences to the victims of the floods. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u150	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The Vote Project No. 557 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( presented by PS ) — I regret the death of the Portuguese chef Philippe da Silva. I request Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed to her reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « The French cuisine lost one of its best ambassadors», he said news in the French press, referring to chef Philippe da Silva, born in Portugal and recognized worldwide. Filipe José Mealha da Silva was born on April 5, 1954, in Paderne, municipality of Albufeira. At only 6 years of age, it was with the family to live in a small town in the Gulf of Saint-Tropez, in Cogolin, where, 26 years ago, it created Hostelerie des Gorges de Pennafort, which soon in the first year won a Michelin star and never lost it again. Philippe da Silva and Martina, his wife, made the restaurant in the most known and appreciated of the whole region of southern France. Through its restaurant many renowned personalities, from foreign Heads of State such as Barack Obama or Prince Alberto do Monaco, various Presidents of the French Republic, such as Jacques Chirac or François Hollande, among Portuguese rulers, deputies and diplomats. Daniel Maria, mayor of Callas, city where his restaurant was located, recalls Phillipe da Silva as someone who received both the great and the humble ones, with the same heat and the same desire to provide happiness to people. The Portuguese chef was one of the first generations of great French chefs with Michelin stars, when at the time his assignment was not so widespread. He conquered the first two Michelin stars in 1987, in Paris. Philippe da Silva was connected to Portugal, moving every year to visit the family in the Algarve. He was a simple, generous, and supportive man who enjoyed the happiness that he gave others with his passion for the kitchen. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic pays a final tribute to Chef Philippe da Silva and to his professional and business career, a reason for pride in Portugal and his diaspora and symbol of the presence of Portuguese in the world, sending his deepest condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u152	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the votes that we have just voted on, we will keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We now vote the deliberative part of the Voting Project No 556 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the Committee on Culture and Communication and signed by Members of the PS and PSD ) — Congratulation for the commemoration of the International Day of Monuments and Sites. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1111 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government send the PRR in its final version to Parliament for discussion. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the PCP, the PEV and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1217 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government complement the Stability Programme with an investment programme and a social measures programme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the CDS-PP.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1221 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By the sovereign law of Portugal decide about its future: to combat the virus and its use and to ensure the development of the country. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] Mr Ventura asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u153	Mr President, it is to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u154	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1223 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — By a strategic vision for the country oriented towards people and businesses: regaining the economy and employment and responding to the social emergency. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD and the PAN.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on an application by the PS, on a low basis to the Committee on Budget and Finance, without a 60-day vote of the Proposal for a Law No 86 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Law of the Great Options for 2021 - 2025. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Then we will vote on the Resolution Project No. 1025 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government measures to value marine ecosystems in national, Community policy instruments and international agreements. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1176 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — proposes the offer of a copy of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic to each student of the 3. the cycle of basic and secondary education. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against CH and the abstention of IL.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1112 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the clarification of the equivalence, for professional purposes, between former bachelors and post-Bolonha licensees. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now vote for the Draft of Deliberation No. 12 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Requests the National Council for Education to study the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on educational communities, including by increasing inequalities, and the necessary response in terms of public policies. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1091 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the recovery, maintenance and enhancement of the National Plant of Choupal, in Coimbra. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 921 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to promote active and healthy ageing and to protect the elderly in the context of COVID-19. We shall proceed to the breakdown of the vote required by the CFP, starting with the joint vote on points 4 and 5 of this draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEV, the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 6. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] Finally, we shall vote on the remaining points of this draft resolution. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall then vote in a comprehensive final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 79 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Extension of the value added tax exemption for intra-Community transfers and acquisitions of goods necessary to combat the effects of the COVID 19 pandemic. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 651 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By the autonomy of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management, 661 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By safeguarding the autonomy of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management, 662 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government find a solution for the Idanha-a-New Higher School of Management socially and territorially just for the council, 683 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote concerted efforts to find alternative solutions that simultaneously guarantee the financial sustainability of the Polytechnic Institute of Castelo Branco and its stay in the territory of Idanha-a-Nova, thus contributing to the territorial cohesion and development of this entire region of the country, 713 / XIV / 2. ( ENP) — Administrative, pedagogical and scientific autonomy of the Higher School of Management of Idanha-a-Nova and 730 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote a solution that safeguards the educational project of the Higher School of Management of Idanha-a-Nova and the Polytechnic Institute of White Castle. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Hortense Martins, Joana Bento and Nuno Fazenda and the PS abstention.]] We shall then proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on Bills Nos 726 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Support measures for public higher education students, 747 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Extension of exceptional and temporary measures to safeguard the rights of higher education students and 753 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Clarifies the extension of the deadline for the submission and presentation of theses or dissertations by means of an interpretative standard of Law No 75 - B / 2020 of 31 December 2020. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on Bills Nos 752 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Altera o Decree-Law No 22 - D / 2021, of March 22, enabling examination of improvement of internal grade in secondary school, 760 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Alter the Decree-Law No. 22 - D / 2021 of March 22, enabling students to perform examination of improvement of internal grade in secondary school, and 769 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alterres o Decree-Law No 10 - B / 2021, of 4 February, in its current wording, in order to allow students to conduct national examinations for the purpose of improving the final classification. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We shall now vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 1109 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Under the law of students carry out national examinations to improve internal classification and 968 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — On the review of national examinations, taking into account the inequalities revealed by distance education. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on Bills Nos 396 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Strengthens transparency in accession contracts (Other Decree-Law No 446 / 85 of 25 October ) and 532 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Strengthens transparency and the effects of the prohibition of general clauses on accession contracts ( 4 ). the amendment to the Legal Regime of General Contract Clauses). [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and the PS abstention.]] We have yet to vote on three opinions from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to give us the first opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the County of Faro, Local Criminal Court of Loule — Judge 3, Case No. 4725 / 18.6T9FAR, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. Cristovão Norte ( PSD ) to make a written statement within the framework of the relevant cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u156	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I ask the Secretary, please give us an account of the second opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the County of Faro, Local Criminal Court of Loule — Judge 3, Case No. 4725 / 18.6T9FAR, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs. Ofélia Ramos ( PSD ) to give written testimony within the scope of the relevant cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u158	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I would ask the Secretary to give us an account of the third opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Local Court of Braga — Judge 1, Case No 2076 / 20.5T8BRG, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Firmino Marques ( PSD ) to make written statements within the framework of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u160	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] It is only left to me to take account of the agenda for our next plenary meeting, which will take place on Wednesday, 5 May, for 15 hours. of the first point is the discussion of Bill Nos 745 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Alter the work-legal telework regime, ensuring greater protection of the worker( 19 ). the amendment to the Labour Code and 1. the amendment of Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September, which regulates the scheme for repairing accidents at work and occupational diseases ), 765 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — regulates the work regime in telework, 535 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Consecrates the right of professional disconnection, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 790 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Guarantees the right of workers to professional disconnection, 791 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthen the rights of workers under telework, 797 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates the right to disconnect, shall proceed to 17. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, 806 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Change the Labour Code with a view to regulating telework more fairly, 808 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Conducts telework regulation, 811 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Regulates telework in the public and private sectors, creates the flexible working regime and strengthens the rights of workers working at a distance, by amending the Labour Code, the General Law on Public Works and the Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September, 812 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Alter the legal-laboration regime of telework( 19 ). the amendment to the Labour Code and 1. the amendment of Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September, which regulates the scheme for repairing accidents at work and occupational diseases) together with the Draft Resolution No 1222 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote a broad debate with the social partners with a view to the conclusion of a social agreement on matters relating to the future of work, in particular on telework and the work of digital nomads. Any vote may take place at the end of the debate. However, Ms. Maria da Luz Rosinha has some more information to give to the plenary. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform the House that you were present, via videoconferencing, the Members. Mr José Cesario, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, and Mr Ivan Gonçalves from the PS Parliamentary Group, for being in prophylactic isolation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-29.u162	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, 223 were present. Members and not 221, as I have just mentioned. Good work and good weekend for everyone. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 47 minutes.]]
