ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, we will start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the gates of the galleries, please. We shall begin by announcing an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which will have to be voted on. Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will take note of the opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members refers to the suspension of the term of office of the Member of the Block of Left Pedro Filipe Soares ( Lisbon electoral circle ), in accordance with Article 4(1) ( a ). Article 5 ( 2 ( b ). Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). the Statute of Deputies, and its replacement by Fabian Filipe Figueiredo, for the period from 26 April to 11 June 2021, including. The Commission gave its opinion that the suspension of Mr Pedro Filipe Soares fulfils the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha is now going to read the file she has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u4	Mr. President, they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr. President, Bills No. 806 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 808 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 810 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Resolution Projects No. 1217 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. a and 10. a Commissions, 1218 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 3. the Commission, 1219 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1220 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1221 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 3. the Commission, 1222 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1223 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 6. the Commission, 1224 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1225 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission in connection with 7. the Commission, 1226 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 6. the Commission, 1227 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 1228 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 1229 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u5	Mrs. Members, I will turn to reading the message received from your Ex. the President of the Republic concerning the dismissal, without promulgation, of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 128 / XIV— Allows the use of drug-assisted reproductive techniques through semen insemination after the death of the donor, in cases of parental projects expressly consented, amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July(assisted drug-procreation): “ Ex. Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic I address you under Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on Decree No 128 / XIV, which allows the use of assisted medical procreation techniques by insemination with semen after the death of the donor, in cases of parental projects expressly consented, amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( assisted medicinal procreation), in the following terms: 1 — The Decree under review allows the use of reproductive techniques assisted by semen insemination after the death of the donor in cases of expressly consented parenting projects, amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( assisted medicinal procreation ). 2 — The extension of post mortem insemination is thus carried out until now only with the transfer of embryo from the parent couple. 3 — The question of post-mortem insemination raises, however, questions in the matter of successive law that the Decree does not provide, since it is not accompanied by the review, nor is it linked with the provisions applicable under the Civil Code, which may generate legal uncertainty, which is undesirable in such sensitive matters. It is the case that the donor expressly wishes to maintain the Civil Code regime, to the detriment of that enshrined in this diploma, in the context of the best interests of the child — the child conception or birth, but also other children already born of the same parent. 4 — In addition, the Decree establishes a transitional standard which determines that the possibility of post-mortem insemination with the semen of the husband or de facto unit applies to cases where, prior to the entry into force of the law, the existence of a clearly consented and established parental project has not been established, without ensuring that, for legal certainty, it has been free, clarified, expressly and in writing, without breach of the legal provisions currently in force, and that the determination of the existence of that clearly consented and established parental project includes the unequivocal will to cover its successive effects. Thus, I return, without promulgation, the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 128 / XIV, so that the Assembly of the Republic may consider the solutions enshrined therein, in the areas specified above, in particular in the light of the principle of legal certainty and in the systematic context of the other relevant rules of the national legal order in succession. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa » Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you read this message, the question will be re-appreciated in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, so we will wait for the necessary time and any initiative to confirm or amend this diploma. We will move on to the second item of our agenda, which consists of the presentation and discussion of the report on the implementation of the state of emergency declaration from 17 to 31 March 2021. To submit this report, Mr. Minister for Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This report corresponds to the thirteenth emergency period declared by the Assembly of the Republic, on a proposal from the President of the Republic, since March 2020. And it corresponds to the twenty-fifth report which, in a framework of transparency, either of emergency periods or of application of the rules of the Civil Protection Basics Act, in the context of situations of disaster, contingency or alerting, the Government shall submit to the Assembly of the Republic. Looking at this report, I would say that the main conclusion that we should draw from it is that the President of the Republic and the Assembly of the Republic were right when they declared this set of measures, under the state of emergency, and the government was executing them. The results achieved in this fortnight, which corresponds to the beginning of the defination process and the Easter period, prove that the measures were adequate and that the Portuguese were exemplary in how they responded to this requirement. [[P.S.'s applause.]] from my experience of the last year of discussion with you, let me say that the best proof that the Government has done what it should do is the result presented in this report and that I will not be here, then, to participate in a debate on a possible next emergency period. During the period referred to in this report, vaccination had a very significant growth, extending decisively to the group over 80 years and with the first period of massive vaccination of pre-school and 1 teachers. the basic education cycle. During this period, it was possible to return the present educational activities to the day care centers, pre-school and 1. the cycle of basic education. in this period there was also a very significant reduction of cases, from about a maximum of 600 daily cases to an average of less than 400 ; there was a significant reduction of deaths, which, nevertheless, we can not fail to regret, but have passed from more than two dozen, at the beginning of the period, to two or three deaths in the last days ; there was a reduction of 35 % of interns ; there was a reduction of 24 % of active cases ; but, perhaps more important than everything, in just two weeks, there was a reduction of 38 % of the number of inpatients in intensive care, those that determine greater pressure on the National Health Service. The security forces, the chambers and the local authorities, the social support structures, but, above all, the citizens, were united in this great effort that allowed the release of Portuguese society, allowed the National Health Service to provide an intervention space to heal the patients and also to gradually resume the response in which the Portuguese put their trust. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u7	We shall now turn to the speeches of the honourable Members. Members, in increasing order of representativeness. First of all, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : This Liberal minute is particularly happy today, because we are two days away from five and a half months of emergency state. The pandemic has not ended, there is much to do, but what there is to do can now be based on what people free and responsible choose to do for themselves and for others and not on the impositions of an omnipotent and omnipresent state. To give people the opportunity and not the state to decide the essentials of their collective life is the essence of liberalism. It is high time to discuss what sense it is to maintain measures such as the obligation of telework, whose parliamentary review we have already requested, the arbitrary and unethical limitation of trade schedules, cafes and restaurants, the obligation to use masks in large public spaces or the prohibition of certain play and leisure activities, especially those that have basically been closed for more than a year, such as events, bars and discotheques. Some will see in this discussion an essentially legal topic on the extent of the powers that the law of civil protection or health can confer. The Liberal Initiative sees in this discussion an opportunity to discuss how Portugal will begin the social and economic recovery that is of the greatest urgency. And in order for the Portuguese to take on their central role in this recovery, the State must focus on doing what it deserves, without any hesitation or ideological complexes. Is it possible to accelerate vaccination? It is enough to make use of all those who are qualified to vaccinate. Is it possible to extend the tests to resume normal life safely? It is enough to continue cooperation between public and private laboratories which have produced such good results. After tomorrow, Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, ends the state of emergency and begins Portugal's time to take care of its future.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u9	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u10	Mr President, Minister for Internal Administration, the tone which you have printed in your speech today in this House, saying « I was right, the government was right, we were all right» and the lack of enthusiasm with which the Socialist Party finally struck palms, almost forgetting to do so, show the opposite, that is, that is, it was wrong, it sank the country and did not care for whom it had to take care of. Tell us, Minister, how many cops have been vaccinated, so far! at the end of three months, we kept waiting to know how many police have been vaccinated. As always, the union says one thing and the Minister says another! And how many firemen have been vaccinated? In this case too, as usual, they say one thing and the Minister says another! But since you came here to talk about rationality - and now that you are going to finish the state of emergency, we will not have the Minister here from 15 to 15 days to tell you this - explain to us which is the rational place to close restaurants at 1 p.m. Tell him to the country, to those who have shut up, to those who have passed away, to those who have disappeared! Tell us what is the case in Europe, where restaurants open at 8 a.m. and close at 1 p.m.! Tell us a case where that happens, Minister! And I'll end up with another question. The Minister, last year, before the first state of emergency came into force, when he came here answered the following : « There is no need to close borders, that is what the extreme right would want ». Now, Minister, the state of emergency is over, the pandemic is over and the Minister has not reopened the borders with Spain!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u11	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u12	I will finish, Mr. President. Tell us if we go, as always, to get on our knees at the door of the Spaniards, if they are the ones who will decide when they reopen the borders or if we have a little dignity and we say that we are, and not them, decide when we open the borders with Spain. It's enough, it's enough that we're always on our knees in front of the neighboring country! He agrees that the Minister gives a sign in this regard.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u13	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The report we are discussing today concerns the 15th to 31th March, when the phase-out defining process began. In the first phase, some economic activities reopened and resumed their business. As far as this report is concerned, we once again say that the most important thing is what it does not say. And what the report does not say is how many businesses, particularly micro and small businesses, have not reopened and why they have not reopened these sources of income from thousands of families. The debate on the report on the implementation of the state of emergency declaration cannot be an empty ritual of meaning. You, who have proposed the state of emergency and defended its renewal for 15 times, must give you meaning and content. But we have answered the previous question: many of these small businesses have not reopened, because support, often announced, has not reached them, by giving priority to the deficit in public accounts. Many have not even managed to break through the barriers that have been imposed, with insurmountable bureaucracy. That is the balance sheet that we also need to draw up in these reports. What this report does not tell us is how many workers have been unemployed in this period and what reasons, and how many of them have to be reinstated, because these dismissals are illegal. It's just that the epidemic can't justify everything. It's just that it's not all the blame for the epidemic. This report should bring us information on the work of the Act (Working Conditions Authority) to prevent abuse and exploitation. The problem is what this report does not say, and that has already been said a number of times. It does not say that access to primary health care continues to be a real adventure in some parts of the country. People comply with the safety rules that have been imposed on them, and do not address health centres in person to protect themselves and protect others, but telephones continue to be ignored. It is still difficult to get in touch with family doctors, to make a consultation, and thus it is still difficult to lose fear of access to health services. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This report, despite the concern over broad sectors of Portuguese society, continues to fail to inform us about what is being done in the area of mental health, even though the members of the Government repeat exhaustively that there is money for strengthening mental health. But what are you doing now in the present? It is that, for many announcements that the Government will do, this will be of no use if an urgent process of evaluation and monitoring of the incidences of mental health problems and early intervention, particularly in schools, is not initiated, but it is necessary to provide them with the necessary human and technical means. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there's little left. We hope that the two missing reports will bring us the answers to the questions raised. [[Congrats from PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u15	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This report and the moment we are living in make us look forward, in the near future, to better times not only with what we know of the data, but also, of course, with the end of the state of emergency. It is true that the steps must be conscious, and it is also true that the Government must support more those councils in worse situations, particularly in terms of epidemiological data. With regard to health policies, what is happening now is not happening, with requests for reimbursement of extraordinary hours to public health professionals and the immensity of the dispensation of professionals who were integrated in this context, but who were already needed, as a result of those who were structural needs. This is what not only professionals tell us, but also hospital administrations. Consider, for example, the case of nurses in the hospitals of Braga or the Thamega and Sousa, which will be in the immediate vicinity of being dispensed. But it is also time for the government to give back to schools the recognition it deserves. It is time for the Ministry to dialogue with representative entities and to take serious steps towards inclusion policies, at a time when for example deaf teachers continue not to see their participation in the follow-up of their educators through, for example, what could be the implementation of a proposal approved to the NAP in 2020, of a Portuguese Gestive Interpreter Exchange ( LGP ). This is the time when, in schools, less content will be more and better. From this report we also conclude that this is the time to support self-employed workers, families and the recovery of companies, without forgetting, of course, the definition of serious environmental objectives, but that they do not serve as scapegoats, as in Petrogal, Matosinhos. Culture also needs to become important in government policies, because we also need it to live. Of course, we refer to the culture that produces knowledge and well-being and not to activities that some want to continue to call « culture », but that actually promote violence, torture and suffering, inappropriate from a modern and civilized society, such activities that, as has been seen in the past, have not been able to comply with the rules of DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ). At work level, it is also a time to regulate telework, balancing and denoting what is the legal framework. In conclusion, I just want to say, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, who, after one year, can withdraw all learning from the way this crisis was born, through policies that allow for the invasion and depredation of ecosystems and the decline in biodiversity, and can then promote public policies in accordance with those of the social and environmental needs of the twenty-first century.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u17	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Let us look at another report on the implementation of the state of emergency declaration and move towards the end of these analyses, which, I think, we are all satisfied in various respects. from the point of view of the report, I would like to stress again the subject of testing, which I have been talking about 15 days ago. We maintain concern, because the level of PCR tests does not grow, and it remains relatively identical to the time of confinement. However, varriments with antigen tests are the main ones responsible for the highest overall test values. As for the test strategy document, which would have been expected to have emerged before the defining or at least on "Day D" of the defining, March 15, only appeared last week, on April 21, to be operationalized from there forward, already with a month of ongoing defining. Anyway... Also from the point of view of the report on the economy, it tells us that there is a slight economic acceleration, which could not fail to be, because the doors have reopened in some activities. But no assessments or considerations are made on unemployment numbers, layoffs or doors which have in fact not been reopened. In culture, as has already been said, it remains a curious pattern, of reporting how many followers have on Facebook or Instagram national theatres, which is interesting. But what was really worth knowing, that is whether the support is reaching the structures, as announced, there is no word about that. in this report, I would like to look at the vaccination, with a very specific question for Mrs Minister of Health, which has to do with the following: in this last period of March and, above all, in the last week, the report records a peak of vaccination, which obviously has to do with the vaccination of teachers - except error, 265 000 inoculations, which is the highest number recorded. Also at this time it was announced that it would be expected that, at cruise speed, in April, if it arrived close to 100 000 inoculations per day, for which 5200 health professionals would be required, of various types, which would be required or, in some way, diverted from primary health care. at the same time, or a little earlier, Mr.Minister issued Portaria 54 / 2021, of 10 March, which creates additional incentives for the recovery of presence activity in primary health care. My question is this: how does the Minister make both things compatible? It is that, on the one hand, he wants to recover the care activity that was left behind with a certain set of resources, but on the other hand, he wants to divert these resources into the vaccination process. Well, it seems to me very little compatible to do both at the same time. And still today, in the Health Commission, Dr. Roque da Cunha, of the Independent Medical Union ( SIM), said that what is happening is that the scales, in primary health care, for these other activities prevent this recovery. So, Madam Minister, I ask you very specifically: would it not be possible, as has already been announced, to resort to pharmacies or private people in addition, for example, to help them in this vaccination process, so as not to divert these resources from primary health care?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u19	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The report we are discussing is the report that coincides with many of the aspects that have already been identified and, in particular, with the absolute need to consider a backbone of response to the problems posed by the epidemic and the economic and social problems arising from it, which is based on four aspects that we have identified as absolutely fundamental — vaccination, testing, screening and social support. In particular, health-related aspects — vaccination, testing and screening — are absolutely essential, not only in response to the so-called "definition" but, above all, as a basic line of response to the epidemic problem, to avoid new confinements and new situations of application of more severe restrictive measures, such as those applied since the beginning of the year. Vaccination is now recognized universally as the major answer to the problem of the epidemic, so it has, in fact, to be placed at the top of the priorities, ensuring not only the achievement of the objectives that are defined in the vaccination plan, but also that Portugal can therefore, at least with less concern, face what may be the development of the epidemic in the face of the risks which it will naturally continue to behave and which can hardly be cancelled. And it is absolutely essential that the strengthening of the public health structure and the ability to ensure screening and testing, depending on the screening that is done, be elements in which we can trust that in the future there will not arise new situations of uncontrolled infections and contagios before new variants that may entail these risks again. These materials related to screening and testing are crucial so that, in the future, this answer can be addressed with confidence. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers and Mr Secretary of State, I refer to matters relating to social support. The impact and economic damage to thousands and thousands of workers, to thousands and thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises that have seen their activity in question, closed or limited, are today a fundamental problem of the national situation that has to be considered in its entirety and with the social support that are necessary to respond to the aggravation of the problems of poverty, social exclusion and despair that, in the lives of many Portuguese, has been installed, in the face of these economic difficulties we have been faced with. And it is absolutely essential that these social support measures be considered in its entirety and in order to respond to the difficulties that are currently present, but also to those that may be exacerbated in the coming months. And I wanted to, Mrs. Minister and Mrs. State Secretarys, drawing attention to a problem that remains — it has been a year ago — a dramatic problem of our national life, which is the use of the epidemic as a pretext for more exploitation, more attacks on workers' rights. Today, collective dismissal processes are being multiplied which, on the pretext of the epidemic, are finding an open field in order to be able to install with the fragility of labour relations, with the weakening of the situation of workers, with this objective of worsening exploitation and impoverishment. The use of the epidemic as a pretext for jeopardizing workers' rights, to challenge employment cannot be admitted, and the State and Government must assume this as one of the matters which must have a decisive fight, not only because of the inspection of the Act...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u21	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u22	I conclude, Mr. President. As I said, this issue has to have a decisive fight, not only through the inspection of the Act, to enforce the rights of workers, but also with a firm response, which must be demanded by the Government, refusing this prospect, particularly from collective redundancies as an expression of this use of the crisis by large companies. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u23	You have the floor, for an intervention, by the Left Block, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite this debate on the Report on the Implementation of the State of Emergency Declaration from 17 to 31 March 2021, probably the most relevant in this discussion is the fact that there is no subsequent debate, it is the fact that we do not debate the renewal of the state of emergency. The truth is, after a very difficult period in January, of which we certainly remember, and after a very harsh and very prolonged confinement, the population in Portugal and health professionals, especially those of the SNS (National Health Service), managed to control the pandemic and to maintain it, today, at the moment when we speak, within controlable levels. But the end of the state of emergency is obviously not the end of public responses and the end of public policies on the pandemic and on the various consequences of the pandemic. And I think we should make a number of points. The first finding is that large-scale vaccination and testing work, as it was found yesterday who attended the so-called Infarmed meeting — National Medicine and Health Products Authority. Vaccination even has a protective effect greater than the one initially expected and effectively the reinforcement of the test allows us to walk in front of the virus and allows us to anticipate the formation of outbreaks and, therefore, break transmission chains soon and do not allow new outbreaks in the country. So what is expected is that the government has a strong voice — in fact, as we have defended — in Europe, to fight any trade war between pharmaceuticals that harm production, which strangle the distribution of vaccines to the various countries, because that is the only way we will be able to even strengthen vaccination.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u26	It is also expected that the increase in testing that occurred, because universities and secondary schools have again passed the presence regimen, is not just an epiphenomenon to respond to the opening of universities and secondary schools and that the testing is maintained at levels that were recorded on 19, 20, 21 and 22 April. As is also expected to take advantage of this moment of relative calm, lower pressure from the COVID-19 and its consequences in the SNS, in order to recover the SNS. This is obviously the recovery of the activity that has been suspended, but a recovery that is even more comprehensive, because it is necessary to strengthen and strengthen the National Health Service. This will not be done by firing nurses, as it is happening in Penafiel; this will not be done by becoming 2000 disposable professionals, such as those who are at risk of going to the streets, because their precarious contracts are about to end; this will not be done with the risk allowance that does not reach anyone; and it will not be done with a government obstinacy not to negotiate careers and working conditions for the workers of the National Health Service. This will do-CL, exactly, by doing the opposite, i.e. by hiring all the professionals that are to hire...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u27	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u28	I will finish, Mr. President. This will be done by hiring all professionals to hire and improve their working conditions. This is the great challenge at this time to strengthen the National Health Service and to recover the entire activity of the SNS. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u29	You now have the floor for an intervention by the PSD, Mr António Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We are again examining a report on the state of emergency concerning a period which was marked by the decision to gradually lift the containment measures. Apparently, the various phases of defination were defined by criteria associated with the risk of transmissibility and the level of incidence of the availability of the National Health Service and the testing and screening capacity that has also claudicated, unfortunately, in timings and objectives. In contrast, we point out that in the period under discussion the Portuguese were again guided by respect for the civic duty of collection and the other general duties imposed on them. [[Well said!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u31	The country is, manifestly and legitimately, tired of so much demand and planning with doubtful practical results and, in some cases, disastrous. A period marked by the resumption of commercial activities and services, including schools under presence. But here too the government has gone wrong and with the steps it has taken. Students, as well as teachers and non-teachers, returned on 15 March, but the promised test, which was announced as a mass, began almost 15 days later, that it committed the health security of educational establishments and exposed them to the risk of propagation of new transmission chains. Although they were included in the first phase of vaccination, they were vaccinated until 31 March less than half of the effectiveness of the safety forces elements. How many are there today, Minister? The firefighters too, contrary to what Mr. Minister of Internal Administration said, are far from completion of the vaccination process. These are the facts that the government is lying to. But how many are vaccinated today, Minister? Uncertainty and uncertainty about the future, especially in the economy, in support of the most disadvantaged, young people, the most vulnerable, continue to be the hallmark of the country and the closure of this government. For the PSD, this serious public health problem cannot ignore the brutal economic and social crisis in which the pandemic has made us dive. Despite the stabilization of health conditions, we must not forget that there are still serious failures in hospitalizations, consultations and SNS surgeries and that unfortunately we will remain powerless before death until we reach group immunity. Now, instead of a state of emergency, we must all be alert. It is therefore important for the government not to announce but also to do so; it will inevitably carry out social support for families and promote the protection of our business fabric, which is truly essential for the social and economic recovery of the country. The pandemic is a battle, and a battle is only won when we are truly able to anticipate the enemy's attacks and, in this case, for most reason, because we have before us an invisible and still little known enemy. But the government, which should have been able to put us in front of the virus, unfortunately has always been behind the damage.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u32	You now have the floor for an intervention by the PS, Mr André Pinotes Batista.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u33	Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Internal Administration, the Minister of Health and the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs. We would begin this intervention by leaving a word to all those who had lost during this period, to all those who delayed their life paths and to all those to whom the pandemic brought suffering. We find ourselves in this body to discuss the tenth report of 15 emergency states at a time when it is good to remember, many have warned that we would fail. And, Mr Minister, I am telling you that when you say 'we would fail' it was not the Minister who was going to fail, Portugal would fail. Today, we know that Portugal has not failed in this fight and that the Portuguese have not failed in this fight either. [[P.S.'s applause.]] During this period, we protect health, protect income and do everything to protect the dignity of our citizens. But three days after we celebrated « the initial day, whole and clean», three days after the celebration of 25 April, Day of Freedom, also could not afford to pass the opportunity to record that the opponents of the regime, those who sit in the chairs to acquaint fear, which make these chairs rather than be chairs of solution are chairs to acquaint fear, wooden chairs, chairs to appear, chairs to shake, chairs to scare, failed. They're vampires of our freedom. But at the time they tried to build towers between health and the economy, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the Assembly of the Republic as a whole, the Government, the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic knew that they were elements of cohesion among our citizens. There may have been better or worse days from the point of view of sound bite, but with certainty that for what is the guarantee of the stability of a country's functioning, for what is the safeguard of health, for what is the guarantor of a society project, we gained every day, because if each measure had its dose of pain, all of it was taken with knowledge, all of it was taken with weight, all of it was taken to avoid a pandemic chaos. But, finally, we cannot expect the enemies of democracy to defend it. at this moment, looking at VV. I would like to reiterate that, in the end—and we are still far from the end—and also making an appeal to the serenity of people, to comply with the rules and to those who see in this defination the celebration of their own individual contribution and not a moment of absolute openness, without consciousness or without responsibility, will also be the democracy that will triumph. And the Portuguese will also know that it is democracy that protects them and that it is the State that welcomes them in times of hardness. But don't do it please, do it by obligation. That's our vision. I would like to conclude by saying that if the Portuguese were partners in this demand, we do not want to return to the old normal. We want to tear new horizons, we want to take advantage of all these difficulties, of all these storms, a new path to tear horizons, because that is the mass that the Portuguese are made, that is what our history tells. And in the end, with responsibility, without fear and without letting ourselves be led by those who want to invite us to fear, we will adapt and we will overcome. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u34	To close this debate, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Liberal Initiative Member has told us that it is time for Portugal to take care of its future. Yeah, right here, it's important to say that there's only a future because we're here. And we came here because individuals had the ability to unite and to reverberate in the state, which is formed by all of them. And the state had the ability to be responsible for all individuals, because this is its function: to protect the most fragile and those who need it most. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, during this period, we managed to find, specifically in the National Health Service, a more robust health service, which better met the assistance needs of Portuguese. And for those who tell us that we need to continue to strengthen the human resources of the National Health Service, I would like to remind you that in the previous legislation we did it in 15,425 professionals, and there was no pandemic. I would like to remind you that last year in 2020 we did so in 9193 professionals. It was 9193 professionals! And this year, only this year, in the months since the beginning of the year, we've done it in 3619 professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They're impressive numbers. These are numbers that do not depend on us, depend on the Portuguese, the choices they have made, the choices in public services and the choices in public health services, which do not serve themselves, serve to serve Portuguese and Portuguese. They serve to continue working on various lines of care, obviously in vaccination—at present, the hope that everyone will move—but also in the usual areas of care delivery. And it was with these men and women that the National Health Service conducted, in March 2021, compared to March 2020, more than 19% of primary health care medical consultations. Therefore, for those who tell us that the care activity needs to be strengthened, we say that, yes, it needs to be strengthened. Do you need to be recovered? Yeah, it needs to be recovered. But men and women who are health professionals are already doing so, and they have done it every day, always with the concern of leaving no one behind, nor those who need medical consultations, nor those who need nursing consultations, nor those who need screenings, nor those who need vaccination. Therefore, it is with this National Health Service, which has suffered so much in recent months, as has suffered most of our people, that we will continue to count. We will also count on the continuation of recovery in the area of mental health. And if we are asked what we have been doing in this area, we answer that we have been working discreetly, especially with the creation of community mental health teams in the area of childhood and adolescence, as happened in the first quarter of this year, in full pandemic. But, looking at everything that the future brings to us—because it is great, and we will not give up on it—we do not believe that the planning of dubious and disastrous results is the face and face with which we present ourselves today. We are aware of the many challenges we face, of the many difficulties we have to overcome, but also, with a clean, serene face, to say that we will continue, because that is the way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u36	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded this second item on the agenda. Let us start the third point, which consists of a debate under Article 224 ( 2 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, with the Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva. Like the ladies. Members know, on a regular basis, that this debate follows a pre-established order in which the parties will intervene in accordance with the distributed time grid, to which the response of the respective government member will immediately follow. To open the debate, on behalf of the Government, you have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The last year has been marked by the biggest public health crisis that the country and the world have faced in the last 100 years. We are living in an unprecedented crisis, which has forced the measures, too, to be unprecedented. contrary to what some said a year ago, it is today unanimous that the crisis we live in, as in fact, all crises, has very different impacts: depending on the state of health of each one, depending on the economic situation of each one, due to the structural inequalities of our society. So we need to have a redoubled attention to those who are in weaker circumstances. We must act to minimize the consequences of the crisis. Of course, in the protection of victims of domestic violence, whose vulnerability has been aggravated within the framework of our restrictions. It was our immediate priority to strengthen means and mechanisms to protect victims to ensure that, even in confinement, they were and are provided with the necessary support. Since March 2020, we have expanded and diversified service channels, created new emergency reception responses and promoted the dissemination of several awareness campaigns. Also at the level of employment and economic situation, women are among the groups most affected by the current crisis. Women are majority in the professions that were in the front line, as they are also, mostly in unpaid work, as well as in the sectors most affected by the pandemic. To design public policies that allow to fill and combat these effects, the production of knowledge and data on these impacts is and has been a fundamental factor. To address these inequalities, the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), delivered to the European Commission, includes measures to promote equality between women and men, ranging from the new social responses that allow better reconciliation between personal, professional and family life, up to employment support measures that increase support in represented sex and measures that ensure a gender balance in respect of training in digital areas. As always, we pointed out that the emergence of the pandemic did not eliminate the urgency of the policies we were currently pursuing. Thus, we have implemented the vast majority of the actions of the Council of Ministers resolution that we have adopted to combat domestic violence, with emphasis on the Annual Action Plan for Continuing Training, whose formations begin in the early weeks. In the field of balanced representation, Portugal was worth highlighting in the Gender Equality Index in 2020, as the country that has made the greatest progress since 2010. As a result of the legal changes promoted in this Parliament, the percentage of women top leaders in the Public Administration rose from 32 % to 42 % from 2015 to 2020, and the weight of women in the leading bodies in the listed companies rose from 12 % in 2017 to 26 % in 2020. In the year of autarchical elections, it is to be hoped that this data will be an inspiration for parties to, of course, comply with, but even go beyond a law of parity, which is more demanding today. In the context of the fight against inequalities, and in compliance with Parliament's resolution, the Government put in public consultation on 9 April the proposal of the first National Plan to Combat Racism and Discrimination. This strategy has been a response to the need to combine the repudiation of formal discrimination with the development of a programme to combat structural inequalities and promote social mobility. In our final version, the plan will have its measures associated with its own goals and development calendars. The objective is that this is a true instrument of collective transformation and of strengthening social cohesion. Combating discrimination and strengthening social cohesion are also the objectives of the Choices Programme, an initiative that promotes the social inclusion of children and young people from more vulnerable contexts. On April 14, we launched the eighth generation of this Program, with more than 100 projects in 68 municipalities, involving almost 30,000 participants. In the area of integration, let me highlight the creation of a new platform for the automatic renewal of residence authorisation, which has enabled 108 000 new titles to be renewed. The model of allocation of the Social Security Identification Number, the NISS at the time, which has already enabled the allocation of more 172 000 new numbers and since the beginning of last year more than 77 000 foreign citizens have become users of the SNS. The pandemic has reinforced the need to ensure a public response to foreign citizens living in our country and who are, despite the pandemic, more than 12 % than in 2019 and more 70 % than in 2015. Soon in March, it was determined that foreign citizens with pending applications from the SEF ( Foreign and Border Service ) would see their situation temporarily regularized. These effects were extended in November to all those who expressed this intention until October 15 and will soon be extended through a new office. To ensure that no one remains behind the Vaccination to COVID-19, an online platform has been created that allows the registration of foreign citizens with no number of users. As a result of extensive outreach work, 11 000 citizens have already registered on this platform. in the first months of the year, the activity of this government area and of the whole government is naturally marked by the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which assumes as one of the main priorities the strengthening of the social pillar in the context of economic and social recovery and the dual climate and digital transition. Taking on the equality agenda a central role for the European social model, three priorities were set. Firstly, to ensure that the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights meets the gender perspective ; secondly, to point out, as we did last April 6, the 10 years of the Istanbul Convention with a High Level Conference ; and thirdly, the assessment of the socio-economic impact of COVID-19 on gender equality, the aim of which is to present a proposal for a Council conclusions. As a basis for these conclusions, the European Institute for Gender Equality was asked to produce a study with some preliminary data, which has already become public. The Portuguese Presidency is also committed to unlocking the directive on balance between women and men in the board of directors in the Council. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to highlight, by the enormous challenge that it represents and by its importance for a better knowledge of the country, the realization of the Census 2021, the largest operation carried out by the National Institute of Statistics in every decade. The population surveys started on 19 April and to date more than 6 million Portuguese have submitted their answers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the issues I have addressed today, because of their cross-sectional nature, are very markedly crossed by two of the strategic challenges identified by the government at the beginning of the legislature, challenges that are even more present today than at the time the government has defined them and that have marked the action of the government, both in the urgent response to the pandemic crisis and in the structural action of recovery and resilience. We know how these challenges have several factors. When the government, for example, reduces the price of social passes, increases the minimum wage or increases pensions, it is not just — and it would be a lot — fighting social inequalities, it is also combating gender inequalities. When the Government strengthens social support, combats precariousness or creates better conditions for the integration of migrants, it is not only developing its sectoral policies, which it presents today, it is also creating conditions for a more favourable development of our demographics. Today, as at the beginning of the Legislature, the Government has decidedly responded to the challenges that in each environment are placed, without ever forgetting the structural challenges, on behalf of a more just and cohesive country, which will deliver to future generations a more sustainable country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u38	We shall proceed to the requests for clarification to Mr. the Minister. To this end, first of all, Mr Fernando Negrão, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister of State and the Presidency, I would like to begin by asking you a very specific question which has to do with the National Institute of Statistics, which had an American company to advise you to collect and process data. However, with the intervention of the National Data Protection Commission, this company was removed. And it was removed for one reason: because it was planned, when it was contracted, the transfer of data from that company to the United States of America and to third countries. Mrs. Minister, I ask you if you knew about this. If he did not, what reason and, having knowledge of this, because he contracted this company. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u40	Mrs Minister, I am thinking of an issue which is central to me and which is rarely on the political agenda: that of children. I would say that the most vulnerable part of the Portuguese population is, in fact, children.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u41	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u42	Some people really say it's the hidden epidemic. This is the situation of children in Portugal. At the beginning of the pandemic, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Eng.António Guterres — which is very cited when it is politically important, but then they do not read what he says and should read — said the following: « At a time when the global recession accelerates, there may be hundreds of thousands of additional deaths of children». And he added: « World confinement and recession feed tensions in families and children are, in turn, victims and witnesses of violence and abuse». This was the concern expressed by Mr. Eng.o António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations. UNICEF ( United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund ) is also concerned about the problem, alerting to the danger of this health crisis, which transforms a global crisis of children’s rights and says that countries should act immediately with a coordinated global agenda. I ask you, Minister : have these recommendations been heard by the Government? They certainly did. And I ask what the Government did following the recommendations made by the Secretary-General of the United Nations and UNICEF. Internally, the APAV (Portuguese Victim Support Association) has helped nearly 1600 children who have been victims of sexual violence in the last five years. Since 2016 numbers have increased every year, with a growth that is already about 122 %. Only within the framework of the CARE Project, the CARE Network ( Specialized Child Support Network and Youth Victims of Sexual Violence) in 2016 supported 195 children, in 2017, supported 251 children, in 2018, supported 304 children, in 2019, supported 417 children, and in 2020 supported 432 children. It was a global increase of 122 %, as I said. Do the government know these numbers, Minister? What do you do with them? Madam Minister, without needing to go any further, Spain has just adopted, with broad consensus—only the vote against the far-right party—the new law on the comprehensive protection of children and adolescents against violence. It is now considered a pioneering law and it has, in short, these characteristics: prevention of all kinds of violence against minors, I repeat, of all kinds of violence; creation of a special register of such crimes, since statistics are manifestly insufficient; saving the victims, since they only make statements during the investigation and only exceptionally go to trial; special training for those who attend the victims; extension of the deadlines for the prescription of crimes against minors; hardening the conditions for compliance with the penalties. Mrs. Minister, this is a big challenge. This is the challenge we have to support children discriminated against by domestic violence and other forms of violence. Mrs. Minister, do you accept this challenge? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u43	To answer these questions, I have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u44	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I am grateful for the questions you have addressed to me. I will start with the first, to tell you that the National Institute of Statistics ( INE) is developing the Censuses and, following the news of the last few hours, I questioned the National Institute of Statistics, who informed me that it was put before a set of questions, first, on the Internet and then by questions from CMTV (Manhã TV post). The information security technology operations in data collection on the 2021 site were audited by the National Security Office and the INE maintains and states that its approach meets the security requirements, is the best option for the success of the operation and the 2021 Census platform is safe. After the news and contacts of the National Data Protection Commission, which raised doubts regarding the legal framework for the subscription of these services, the INE decided to suspend fully the subscription of these services so that no doubts remain. It continues to guarantee the safety of the Censuses, but at the moment, in doubt, it has decided to suspend.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u45	So, what now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u46	The result of this action will not affect the safety of the Census website, continuing to be ensured total protection of personal data, and the response form by the population will not be affected either, may at most have any additional slowness. This was the information that INE lent me in the last few hours. I shall, from now on, of course, always be available to answer any questions I may have. The second issue that Mr Deputy brings, on the protection of children, is a very relevant issue. Only part of this policy is my responsibility, but I will not fail to respond to it because indeed, and it has always been a government concern in the face of such a crisis, it is necessary to guarantee the protection of children. That is why we organized, around schools, a social protection network that guaranteed, practically, just to have an idea, 20 % of the usual meals, when the school is working, in this most critical period. And, for example, in this second confinement, we always ensure that the protective committees of children and young people were operating uninterruptedly, precisely because we considered that, in the first confinement, this operation was needed. I would also like to tell you that, when we adopted a strategy to combat domestic violence here, we included the development of specific actions, aimed, on the one hand, at primary and secondary prevention, but also ensuring that all professionals working in domestic violence had guidance, and coherent guidelines between themselves, because this was one of the issues identified in the area of children and young people. The guide is ready, was launched in 2020 and is part of the integrated training for all actors working in the area of domestic violence and in response to primary prevention and support programmes for children. It is also planned to monitor prevention and intervention projects among the most vulnerable groups and, as we announced a few days ago, we also launched a contest for psychological support to children and young people, precisely within the framework of the national domestic violence support network. Mr. Member, UNICEF in 2019 said that Portugal was one of the countries with policies that best met the needs of children. We can trust this UNICEF indication and we can also look at the data: poverty in children has decreased, early school dropout has decreased. We have always tried to respond to children and young people as they are, we all know, those to whom we have to ensure that inequalities do not reproduce. That is what we have done and, of course, I will always be available to continue to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u47	The PSD continues to have time, so now you have the floor of Mrs Lina Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u48	Mr President, Minister of State and Presidency, I have three questions to ask you : the first is on the Recovery and Resilience Plan, the second is on Law No 60 / 2018 and the third is on a European Directive COM 2021. Ms. Minister, in Portugal, only 0, 2 % of Portuguese youth plan to work in ICT ( information and communication technologies ). However, remuneration in this area is quite high compared to other professions. We should ask ourselves why young people are fleeing such a well-paid occupation. They probably turn away from ICT because they are confronted with gender stereotypes in their personal choices and because they have a working environment occupied and mostly headed by men. Mrs Minister, the only way to overcome this deficit is to organize training with a significant quota of young women in this area, which, after being incorporated into the labour market, will have a multiplier effect and will generate a different distribution of labour. This was what Prof. Tribolet recently said on the basis of his experience at the conference « The Digital Economy and Women », organized by the Subcommittee on Equality and Non-Discrimination, where the Minister was present. Mr. Minister, we know that there are, in the PRR, support that can be directed towards this type of initiative. Therefore, question: have PRR support been analyzed in view of its gender impact? In accordance with Article 16. that of the State budget, is there a breakdown by sex of these support? My second question is about Law No 60 / 2018, which aims to promote equal pay between women and men and which entered into force in 2018. How many employers have been notified? How many serious counter-ordinations have been applied to entities with discriminatory practices in the remuneration of women? Why does wage inequality persist and resist? I also ask you, Minister, if you have already evaluated this law, because it has already entered into force and so far we have no evaluation or, if we have, we would like to know what the result was. Finally, as regards Directive COM 2021, Mrs Minister, wage inequality, as we know, persists and resists. Since the Minister and the Government are in the Presidency of the European Council, why not make a regulation and not a directive? It was very important to think about this situation and also to do more for equality. This is because what we have seen recently happen to a woman who is President of the European Commission cannot continue. [[At the moment, the Speaker showed photographs of the meeting of the President of the European Commission with the President of Turkey and the President of the European Council in Ankara.]] So, Mrs. Minister, to finish, I just wanted to know if we can take a step forward to combat wage inequality. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u49	You have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your questions, which are questions on which we have repeatedly spoken, but I would like to reply. As you know, the question of equality before the technological revolution that comes there has been our concern since the first hour. There was already a project launched, the Engineering Project for one day, and the Government saw, in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, an instrument to strengthen our work in this matter, and that is exactly what we did. If you go through all the measures of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, both in the social responses, and in the housing policies, in the policies related to the SNS, you finally find this gender perspective by which Mrs. It is clear that, as one of the themes of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, this preparation of our society for digital society, what we did was to integrate the gender perspective into the plan, as I said, and to design programmes in the digital area that would always ensure, in the different types that exist, a commitment to gender equality. This means that, for example, higher education institutions, when they apply for the funding package set out there for the development of the areas of science, technology and mathematics, should include their equality plan in the programme to which they apply. And it also means that, in the field of digital training—and the programme will be known within days—we have training goals for men and women, to try to meet the difficulty that the honourable Member identifies, which is a very serious difficulty. If we allow differences between men and women to be crystallized now in the capacity to occupy jobs that will be created in the digital area, we are simply defining that the problems of equal pay, which we already have today, grow, reproduce, increase for the next generations. He also asked me about the law on equal pay. As you know, what was planned was that, at first, we would release the general and sectoral balance sheet, what happened, and it will leave its third edition this month in June. Last year, it was supposed to have left the balance sheet by company, profession and level of qualification — the question that Mrs Deputy asked me about — but we all know the pressure that companies were subject to. There was therefore a postponement of the report for this purpose, and for many others, but in June this year the first balance sheet will come out by company, profession and level of qualification for companies. From then on, the ACT will notify companies to submit the disclosure plan and companies will have 12 months to do so. The time limit for the ACT to make this notification shall be 31 July of this year. I would also like to tell you that this law will be assessed by the ISCED ( Committee on Equality in Labour and Employment), I believe, during this year 2021. As regards the European dimension which the honourable Member has given me, the Portuguese presidencies are, as Mr Prime Minister says, a kind of proof of scams. We have received a set of files, we have improved these files to leave them to the next and we have introduced our priorities in this presidency. That is what we have sought to do, as I said in the gallery, and hence the importance of unlocking one of the fundamental directives in this area, which is the directive on women in the board of directors. We have sought to focus on the response to this 'disease' because we understand that it was a priority, since, as the study data show, Portugal, as Portuguese Presidency, has recommended, has very significant effects on working hours, wages, the division of work at home between men and women. And we tried to ensure that we left this year, in Europe as in Portugal, with conditions for developing policies to overcome these differences. This has been our priority, we must always defend priorities, but we are continuing our work on equal treatment, on equal pay and on women's board. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u51	Mr Rui Cristina of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u52	Mr President, the Minister of State and the Presidency, as we know, the Minister has the coordination of the management of migration flows and the integration of immigrants into Portuguese society, even though it is the responsibility of the Minister of Internal Administration to deal with the landings of illegal immigrants on the Algerian coast. This is a national theme of great impact, in a region where the security factor is a most important value for the tourism industry. I recall that Mr. Minister of Internal Administration said here that Portugal « should not fall into ridicule, considering that there is an illegal migration network for the Algarve ». The government has tried to ignore reality, but the latest internal security reports indicate that Portugal remains under migratory pressure as destination, and indirect migration pressure. It is that, after consolidating the routes of immigrants, crime comes highly organized. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the means of supervision effectively so that the coast of Algarve does not become vulnerable to phenomena of illegal migration. First, it was a ridiculous and nonexistent problem. After seven landings in the Algarve, there were already conversations and a possible legal migration agreement with Morocco. In October, the holder of the Internal Administration folder referred the negotiations to the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union. More: we don't even know what the Portuguese Government wants to do. We do not know if you want to welcome, integrate or expel immigrants who have entered our country illegally and if you have the conditions to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u53	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u54	The questions I put to you, Mrs Minister, are what measures the Government will take to prevent the landings of immigrants in the Algarve and whether the Government will strengthen the means of monitoring the coast of Algarve. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u55	In reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva, to whom I greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u56	Mr. President, I greet you too. Mr President, Mr Rui Cristina, this is a sectoral debate, and the issue you have put to me is not my area, as you have also mentioned at various times.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u57	He's Minister of State!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u58	According to the division of work that the Government has, on our side, are the integration policies and, on these, of course, I respond. But I didn't want to stop answering him. Since December 2019, seven ships have arrived with migrants on the coast of Algarve. Obviously, in the context of migration in Europe, this is not a matter of great significance. It is a problem of lesser significance, compared with many countries. What I wanted to tell you is that Portugal is concluding with Morocco a bilateral worker mobility agreement, because what we are looking for — and we were the first country to present its action plan under the Global Pact on Migration — is to promote legal migration and ensure the integration of migrants. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u59	You now have the floor to put questions by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u60	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs. Secretary of State, I would like to begin by asking questions relating to gender equality. We know, and the Minister said this in her initial speech, that the effects of the pandemic were serious and disproportionately affected women. Data from the European Institute for Gender Equality, which analysed the impacts of the coronary virus pandemic on gender equality, point to massive job losses, especially in the case of mostly female jobs, such as those relating to care, domestic services, textile industries, tourism, restoration and services. All these jobs had massive losses. Women, who are majority in these jobs, have 40% job losses and also a decrease in wages. Recovery did not happen to women the same way it happened to men. The data show that male workers recovered more work than workers, being the most penalized workers, having recovered less work. A third axis is the increase in domestic violence and gender-based violence against women. I would like to ask the Minister what information she has on this matter. We know that the data were collected in 2020 and will also be collected in the first quarter of 2021. We would also like to know what is the data on unemployment, especially women's unemployment, and income losses. A little while ago in response to the PSD Member, he said that the government was preparing a set of policies to respond to this massive loss that mainly affected women. I would also like to ask what policies the government is considering implementing. Another issue has to do with the pay equality law. A European Directive on equal pay came out a few days ago and although Portugal is in line with the rules of the directive, significant gender pay inequalities remain in Portugal. The law on equal pay defined in Article 10 thereof. the, an assessment of this wage disparity, for the promotion of equality, i.e., to know where we are, how we are and how we will achieve that equality. So far, we haven't received any information. This first assessment should have happened by August 2020, so we asked for information on this assessment. On the difficulties of reconciling professional life with family life, data also point to a greater effect in women in telework. They were more the professions performed by women who adopted telework and this had a rather marked effect on the reconciliation of professional life with family life. The data also show that when women are in telework, they are more interrupted by their children than men in telework. This has effects on concentration and then also on career and performance progression. It therefore has an effect on their professional lives, in addition to increasing domestic chores, care tasks, which were left on women's shoulders. There has also been an increase in unpaid work and I would like to ask what data they have on this matter and what measures they are implementing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u61	You have the floor to answer, Ms Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u62	Mr President, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, thank you very much for the questions you have put to me. I wanted to start by saying that even when the data is difficult, even when the data is serious, it seems to me that we always need to look at the path we have made. The way we have made in this matter is positive and I would like to stress it. From 2010 to 2020, Portugal, as I said recently, rose 13 places in that rate of equality and we also saw a significant decline from 17, 9 % to 14, 4 % with respect to wage disparity. I know that this difference is in the same very significant and even more shocking when we see that it is precisely in the most qualified professions that this difference is greater. But I would like to point out that we have made a path, which is helped by the law that has been approved here, and that there will become a very important set of data for action: data differentiated by company, data differentiated by profession and data differentiated by schooling. From June this year, companies will receive this data and should develop, if they have differences, their plans for correcting this wage inequality. As has happened with other laws, such as that of balanced representation, I believe that we can be confident of the effectiveness of this law. So much so that this is a law that goes ahead, let us say, of the European directive that you mentioned. Since the first day we said that the impacts in this crisis would be different for women and men. Since March we have these published data and we can look at the differences and check where they are more significant. The European study that Mrs Deputy mentioned shows us that in Portugal there was this greatest loss of employment for women. Above all, at the time of summer and job recovery, recovery was less strong for women. There was a very significant impact on the hours worked and therefore on wages. I believe that our objective is indeed to develop these policies, not only at European level but also at national level. For this reason, in the RPP, for example, in the contracting measures, you will find increased support for the recruitment of women in these sectors. In this second confinement, we made the amendment to increase support, for example, whenever the alternance between women and men was guaranteed in support of the family. This amendment had a very limited period of time of application, but in any case this increase ended up covering 1640 people in March. Fortunately, schools were able to reopen, because this is the fundamental element of equality, but with this we would have an instrument of correcting some of these situations. It is clear that many of the measures we have taken, in the context of Supplementary Budget and then in the framework of State Budget, are measures that, because the crisis hits women more, protect women more. For example, paying the layoff to 100 %, having been the women most people in layoff, ensures that we are helping more women, and the same with regard to measures to support informal workers, the extension of social unemployment allowance and the RSI (social income of inclusion). All these measures have corrected an injustice that the economic crisis has created. We have others to take, certainly, and here we are to do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u63	You now have the floor to put questions to Mrs Fabíola Cardoso of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u64	Mr President, I welcome all those who, with their work, have allowed this debate to be held, in particular the Minister of State and the Presidency and his team. I intend to put some questions about LGBTI themes (Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex) that concern the Left Block and that have been practically absent from the policy of this government, both in response to the pandemic, as well as in the strategies outlined for the necessary economic recovery, and also in its initial intervention today. Despite the slogan of Census 2021, which says « we all count, we all count », LGBTI people are completely invisible in the eyes of the one referred to as the « largest national statistical operation ». We will continue to ignore the percentage of lesbians or trans people in the country, for example. Mrs. Minister, without credible data it is not possible to outline sound public policies in these areas. Despite legislative advances, the systematic refusal to collect information on this subject, as well as on ethnic and racial minorities, prevents the knowledge of discrimination and makes it difficult to combat it. Their invisibility in the Census is also a way of perpetuating these discriminations. Thus, I wonder if your ministry, in conjunction with the National Institute of Statistics, is willing to close this lack of statistical information data, as and when. Despite Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, who said, in response to the Left Block, that combating discrimination against LGBTI people would be « one of the tasks and priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union », despite Mr. Secretary of State for European Affairs, who defended in the European Parliament that there should be no room for homophobia anywhere in Europe, the rainbow flag has remained in the cupboard of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Do you not consider this situation deeply embarrassing for our country and completely unacceptable? What can we expect from the two months of the Portuguese Presidency that are still missing? Finally, despite the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 69 / 2020 adopted here, which recommends to the Government emergency support for LGBTI associations and collectives in the context of the pandemic crisis that we are going through, despite the National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination, which is in force, there are no known measures that respond to these legal regulations. What measures are planned for the follow-up of this area of political intervention by your Government? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u65	You have the floor to reply, Mrs. Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u66	Mr President, Mrs Fabíola Cardoso, thank you very much for your questions. I shall begin with the European dimension: I do not see it again — I said this to the honourable Member last week — in the description made by the Portuguese Presidency, perhaps because there have already been many moments of the Portuguese Presidency in which I am discussing these issues. What's right is I don't wake up. As I explained, it was the topic at the EPSCO Council (Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumers) last March 15. There was a debate on guidance in this area. There is a debate, which is held online—but I do not think that this is demeaning in relation to the issues, even the conditions under which we are working in this presidency— precisely on the European Strategy for Equality LGBTIQ (Lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender, intersex and Queer) 2020-2025, and at the Social Summit one of the sessions is precisely about the different policies to combat discrimination, including measures to combat discrimination of LGBTIQ people. So, I don't look at the criticisms you do and that's all I wanted to repeat. It is part of our work, it is part of our reflection, it is a matter that is divisible, as you know, but it is part of our Presidency. Regarding the response to LGBTI people, we have sought, in the various areas in which we work, to maintain regular contact with the main associations of this sector. The Directorate-General for Health issued specific guidelines when we were confronted, for example, with the access of trans people to the clinical follow-up they were having and which was interrupted during the most critical period of the pandemic, to which we sought to respond within the framework of the partnership with the National Pharmacy Association. We created the direct and privileged channel of communication with associations to always identify the problems that existed. We have sought to strengthen the specialized responses for LGBTI people and victims of violence, and we have sought to comply with the resolution of the Assembly of the Republic which the honourable Member mentioned here. We have an appropriation of EUR 1, EUR 7 million in Portugal 2020 for this area and we have sought to make funding available for projects in this area. This is a path that had already come from behind and that also existed in the fight against the pandemic. In conjunction with the Ministry of Health, we have carried out a report of the situations that were signalled by LGBTI organizations to respect and value the health strategy for LGBTI people. Therefore, we have sought to respond at local level, in conjunction with associations, to the problems that arise. On the Censuses, as I told you last week, during the period when this inquiry was under public discussion this issue never arose. We can debate if it could make sense, but the truth is that it did not arise in any context in the public discussion that existed in 2019 about these Censuses. As you know, this is a matter of INE competence, but I personally doubt that this issue would add something to the context of the census. But this is a discussion we could have had, as we did others, if it had emerged as a political theme at that time, and we could have discussed it politically. It has not been discussed, no one has raised this issue and the Censuses are now running. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u67	I now give the floor to Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u68	Mr President, I welcome the Minister, the State Secretaries and the Secretary of State, Mr. Members: As you know for many years in this House, immigration has been treated as a police case. In the first half of the 90s of the 20th century, the ongoing public works brought thousands of immigrants to our country looking for work. The restrictive immigration policies implemented in the European Union, following the entry into force of the Schengen Agreements and their implementing convention, have put many of these thousands in a situation of illegality. Many of these immigrant citizens, who corresponded to the real needs of our country, were forced into a situation of illegality, exploited by many of the employers who refused to cooperate in their legalization to benefit from the fragility in which they were. The policy of closed doors to immigration was justified with meaningless slogans, such as that Portugal could not be a country of broken doors, as if it had ever been, or that we could not welcome as many people as the immigrants, rather than working, come to live at our expense. Soon, however, it was demonstrated that immigration is not an evil and that only a few malformed minds can consider as such. The whole history of humanity is a history of migration. Portugal is a country of immigrants and migrants. It is a country that should treat its immigrants with the same humanity with which it wants other countries to treat our migrants. Immigration is a good thing. Evil is the situation of illegality to which many immigrants are convicted. The unsustainability of a closed-door immigration policy, which is no more than a closed-eye policy to the reality that migration flows are not regulated by the laws of law but sociology, led to the adoption of precarious regularization mechanisms, such as extraordinary regularizations, residence permits, exceptional regularization mechanisms based on the discretion of the guidelines transmitted to the SEF. The CFP has always considered that immigration is not a police case. Police cases are the illegal hand-trafficking networks and those that benefit from them. Their victims, who are the immigrants who desperately seek a dignified life, must be released from these ties and be entitled to work with fair rights and wages. We cannot ignore the situation of workers who, coming from various parts of the world, work in agricultural farms in the south of the country, live in miserable living conditions and in a situation of total social marginality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u70	To ascertain the situation in which these workers find themselves, to know the legality of the specific working conditions to which they are subject, in particular with regard to wages, working hours and other labour rights, and to take care of their social integration are imperative that the Portuguese State cannot steal. The integration of immigrants requires a fair and realistic policy of granting residence permits that does not allow those who live and work in our country to remain illegal. It is not acceptable for the Portuguese State to receive taxes and discounts from immigrant workers, but then to keep them illegal. It must be ensured that no one living in Portugal is deprived of their right to health care, the right to education and education of their children or the right to a decent housing. But for these and other social rights to be widely recognized, a visa policy and residence permits must be a factor of integration rather than of social exclusion. We do not ignore that, at the time of the declaration of the state of emergency, the Government has determined that foreign citizens who have made requests for their regularization in national territory will have their stay in Portugal considered to be regularised and also determined the extension of the validity of the documents that would expire at the time of the state of emergency so that foreign citizens will not lose their rights, including social rights. These are measures that, of course, we welcome. However, this integration effort should not be limited to the state of emergency or pandemic. The return to normality, which we hope is as short as possible, should not mean the return to the old standard of illegality. It is necessary for the Government to implement the purposes of the Big Plan Options in 2020, to create a job search visa prior to entry into Portugal, and it is necessary for the resolution of the administrative problems affecting the situation of many immigrants, and which cannot be resolved exclusively by electronic means, to have a timely response. It is known that the impoverishment of public services in human resources is a cross-cutting problem. It reflects on social security, health, education, justice or security and prevents many citizens from resolving, in a reasonable time, many problems that depend on decisions of the Public Administration. It happens that, in the case of foreigners, this problem is very sensitive, since the lack of response by the services may lead to the maintenance of undesirable situations of illegality of citizens in national territory. What answers does the Government intend to give in these matters? [[Congratulations from BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u71	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u72	Mr President, Mrs Alma Rivera, thank you very much for your questions. I would like to stress, firstly, that I fully look at the extent in which the honourable Member highlighted how we should look at migration. The Government therefore welcomes the fact that in recent years it has been years of positive migration balance, since we have not only invested migration cycles as we have reinforced immigration cycles. As I said recently, it is a sign of this that, even in the pandemic, the number of immigrants continues to grow, compared to the same year. This is not the result of a country that has a closed door policy, on the contrary. So I wanted to tell you that. As the honourable Member mentioned, we have sought, in this emergency dimension, to solve many of the problems that were identified, through such a order that gave access to the different forms of social protection to those who had pending requests, but also to continue to work, because, as the honourable Member knows, much of this work is a work of proximity, street, land, in order to ensure that people have access. That is why they not only count, from our point of view, the numbers of people who had general and abstract access, so let us say, to this answer, but also the people who, in the meantime, had social security numbers, which, as you know, was one of the problems that sometimes created vicious circles of access to regularization. In addition, I would like to highlight, as I have always pointed out in our hearings, the great result that is having more than 77 000 people with SNS user numbers, and this access to SNS is a maximum form, if you want, of integration into our society in our country. I also want to tell you that the general, transversal policies we have implemented are policies that protect immigrants. This is true when we look at the discrepancies in remuneration between national citizens and foreign workers, in which in 2011 the distance was 9, 4 percentage points and at present is 2, 6 percentage points. All of this is the result of the integration policies and the income improvement policies we have discussed here. It is true that not everything should be closed in the emergency response. For this reason, in August 2019, the Government had approved its national plan to implement the Global Pact for Migration. Many of these policies that we have temporarily resolved, due to the urgency of the pandemic, are policies that were assumed. Today, who renews his residence permits, there has the SNS number. That is, there is an emergency response dimension and there is a structural dimension that is beyond the pandemic. We hope we can guarantee it in different spheres. As I have just said in my speech, automatic renewal of residence permits allowed an automatic renewal of 108 000 titles. I have also spoken of the 172 000 people who have become social security numbers and, within the framework of the restructuring of the SEF that is being done, the care of all these renovations will be done in the same areas where each one of us deals with its documentation. Our expectation is that this proximity will also enable us to solve a part of the problems that you have identified. in this respect we always have new challenges. We have immigrants coming from increasingly diverse countries and this is an added challenge for our integration policies. from there the importance that we give to teaching Portuguese as a non-mother tongue and the transformations we have made in Portuguese policies as a host language, which we hope can reach more people because we have changed several rules that made access to language difficult. I still want to point out that throughout the time the schools were closed, in the same way that on public television there were classes of various disciplines, also there was always the English Language not Mother, because we never forget the issues of integration. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u73	Mr Telmo Correia now gives the floor to the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of State, first of all, I would like to congratulate you and thank you for the clarifications you have given us. However, I would like to say, obviously with due respect for you and for your role, that eventually we would not choose as a priority area of inquiry that is yours, which does not devalue you at all but translates a little what we have seen during this debate period in which Mrs Minister often needed to answer with « That is not exactly my area. That is not exactly what I have this guardianship", which means that what the parliamentary groups would most like to know is not what the Minister can bring to us. Also at this risk, Mrs Minister, I would like to ask a first question about an area which is obviously your guardianship, although not entirely. This is the issue that is linked to gender equality, with the rights of all, especially women, who are the main victims of domestic violence, and, as you have already been asked, a little bit about the issue of minors. I have asked two questions from now on. First of all, Mrs Minister, you have the impression that the reports that come to us — and my analysis of these reports is done much in the logic of 1. the Commission, but also in an internal administration logic, tells us that in this pandemic period numbers would have fallen to a certain extent, which is obviously a cause for reflection and concern. In other words, Mrs Minister, we do not have much higher figures than would be normal, because in any way if people were locked behind the door, so to speak, this type of crime may also have been closed behind the door and therefore we can actually be in a situation far more worrying than the numbers and statistics give us. On the other hand, on the issue of domestic violence and, above all, on children, Parliament has on the agenda a proposal for a law on this matter—if I am not mistaken it is 28 / XIV / 1. a — a petition and initiatives of the various parties. And the CDS will also make its contribution to furthering the issue and better protecting the children of this kind of situation. In other words, there is the idea that a minor can be exposed to direct violence, and this is violence against minors, of course, but that the very exposure to a context of domestic violence, although not directly against the minor, is, in itself, a form of violence, and obviously we will have to pay attention to it in the future and the CDS will put all its commitment to it. What I ask you, Mrs Minister, is whether in your plans, in your actions, in your training, in the identification of agents, in teaching training, in the preparation of agents and people who will have to deal with this, whether or not this reality is envisaged, in what way — since we are still in the legislative process — and what is your concern and consideration in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u75	In reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and of the Mariana Vieira da Silva Presidency. Mrs. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you see, it is very possible to ask very important questions for the country and all of them in my areas. So if the questions are about areas that are not mine, I think I should say so. I tried to answer all of them, even if they were not in my areas, but it is very easy to ask questions about my areas, which are not so few — at least that is what my agenda says. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[BE's laughs.]] The concerns that you mentioned here about domestic violence are concerns that we have had since the first hour. At the beginning of the first confinement, in the declaration of the first state of emergency, since the first hour, we were concerned about this idea that victims of domestic violence could be confined to their aggressor, and this is obviously a scenario of individual terror and enormous collective concern. That is why we have tried to diversify all possible channels of response — by paraphrasing an old ad, "if you cannot call, send a written message" — by creating e-mail replies, by diversifying, for example, security forces' visits to cases of possible recurrence we knew and in a permanent contact with the support network in the context of domestic violence. I am faced with that situation in which, when domestic violence figures are worse, it is very serious, and when they are better, they are black figures. I understand the question, because it corresponds exactly to my concern, but what I can tell you is that the numbers are actually better and that does not result from any slowdown in our monitoring capacity. On the contrary, our service increased in 2020 compared to 2019, we had more responsiveness than in 2019 and therefore I would not say, by the numbers I have, that the fall in the number of complaints and deaths, which are still horrible numbers, reflects this confinement. Obviously, I will not be able to guarantee it, but what I can tell you is that our attendance numbers contribute to my conviction that it was our best response, it was the continuing presence of campaigns we did in the social communication this year that gave a better response capacity. On the proposals that are in the House, of course, this is the time for the House to take a decision on the law. The government's time has passed. We are prepared to give a very strong response to the size of children and young people. As I have already responded to the PSD, in the resolution of the Council of Ministers we approved and in the measures we have taken, this was a fundamental dimension as well as in the new training programme we started, which is a programme which, as at the time the team that evaluated that critical moment of domestic violence has recommended us, has transversal areas of training for all sectors, so that those who attend, who make the complaint, who help to have fundamental elements of common training, because it was these gaps that we had some problems. As I said recently, we created a network of psychological support responses, precisely to strengthen psychological and psychotherapeutic support for children and young victims of domestic violence. As you know, in the understanding of the government they were already victims of domestic violence and we never opposed the law to win or clarify it more, and we will, under this announcement, have in a protocol with the Order of Portuguese Psychologists, the answers throughout the national territory. Therefore, in the production of guides that all agents know, in training and in these responses to children, we believe that we are responding to the main challenges we have. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u77	Mr Telmo Correia is still speaking. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u78	Mr President, Madam Minister, I do not devalue your areas in any way. What I told you was that, from the point of view of the opposition, even by its cross-section, they could not be a priority, but even a reason for rest for you, and not the opposite. The opposition obviously does not want anything else but to go to the most controversial points, so to speak. Therefore, I know well — a knowledge of experiences made, though limited — that the agenda of any member of the government is extremely demanding and a very busy agenda. I have no doubt about that, that is not what is at stake and I thank you for your answers. On another issue, which you have already talked about today, illegal immigration, your colleague from the Internal Administration was indeed very unhappy when you answered a question from me saying that he thought the existence of a new route was ridiculous. It has been found that this route exists, or may exist, that it is relevant, and your first reply that you gave to my PSD colleague recently is interesting. This is exactly what I wanted to ask you and I will keep the question, despite your answer. That is, the answer to such situations, illegal immigration, is legal immigration, as is evident, and that is where we should go. The response to the situation in North Africa, and in particular in Morocco — and many of these immigrants may not come directly from Morocco — is, of course, the partnership in terms of aid and development and, on the other hand, legal immigration agreements. I am pleased that these agreements are being negotiated and what I ask you, Mrs Minister — and, once again, we are talking about a cross-sectional area, I could also ask your colleague for Foreign Affairs, which is the exact point of view of these agreements, i.e. if I could tell you something else about their content and whether they are with Morocco alone or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u79	In reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva. Mrs. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u80	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, your question, in particular, is whether or not we can say that there is an illegal immigration route. That's what was at stake. What I can tell you is that the existence of this route is under investigation and we must try to have the possible answers. With regard to the agreements, I can tell you that at the moment agreements are under negotiation with Morocco, Moldova and India, and the creation of a mobility area in the CPLP ( Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries). [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u81	You now have the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: in this first round, and to facilitate, from now on, the Minister who has three very specific questions to ask him. I begin with the subjects of gender equality. The Minister concluded her initial speech on sustainability, but with regard to gender equality, the situation is clearly unsustainable. And the data speak for you, Minister. Despite the work that has been done, we all know that the crisis caused by the COVID-19 has left the women behind and the statistics notice it itself: there is a wall that has been raised in the gap that separates men and women and we are not able to overthrow it. Otherwise, we saw: in every 100 children who had to stay in prophylactic isolation, 84 were taken care of by the mother. The social support that emerged during the suspension of educational activities was, in its large majority, required by women. In fact, women were also the majority of the essential professionals who were in the front line of the fight against the crisis. Again, it was also the women who most lost their income. While a man lost 5, 4 % of his income, a woman lost 8, 1 %. And women are also the most vulnerable group to poverty and social exclusion. We have heard very recently, Mrs Minister, in an interview, about concerns about gender equality, concerns that we have sidelined, but what we need to know today, Mrs Minister, is, from words to action, from concern to public policies, which will indeed be done to ensure that we are fighting poverty structurally. He spoke to us in layoff, but we need to go further on equality, such as wages, starting with the transparency of wages practised in companies or in the Public Administration. We must also ensure access to housing, decent housing and not only precarious, of course, when we continue to have barracks in our country that are not eradicated. Equal salary, a greater reconciliation between professional life and private life, but this does not mean that women are systematically being pushed into private life, taking care of their children, which goes, for example, by revisiting the permits for the enjoyment of maternity and parenthood exercise, as stated in a proposal of the NAP that has already entered the Assembly of the Republic. Madam Minister, we will soon have a recovery and resilience plan that will have to be articulated with the different instruments of the country and what I ask you is whether you can guarantee that this plan will be perfectly aligned with the impact of the implementation of gender equality measures, whether you will ensure that citizens and civil society can in real time realize the gender impact of this programme coupled with the great options for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u83	In reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and of the Mariana Vieira da Silva Presidency. Mrs. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first condition for us to be able to correct the inequalities created by this pandemic is that we know all the data regarding all the benefits and support created, which basically allows, and very well, that the honourable Member is here to highlight these inequalities, having highlighted precisely the two measures in which they are greater. This is precisely the first condition for us to correct them. What we did, from January onwards, when the schools were closed, when we changed the family support allowance, was to seek to increase it whenever support was divided. I have just been able to say the numbers, which are only March and are therefore reduced numbers, but basically we have created the policy to produce greater equality in this indicator. The honourable Member says it's not just Layoff, and I also think it's not Layoff. But I also want to tell you that it wasn't just layoff. When a set of policy responses to people who have a more informal relationship with our economy has been defined as defined in this Parliament, it is women who are being protected. Most women are being protected. When we pay the layoff to 100 %, it is the women who are being protected; when we increase the minimum wage or the RSI, they are mostly the women who are being protected, as when we lower the price of social passes are also the women who are being most protected. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As regards the law on equal pay, which has been adopted in this Parliament, I have recently responded. In the first phase we had general and sectoral data and, in June, we will have the company's data, which will allow the inequalities to be corrected. These data will be known from companies, of course, and also from ACT, which will say that the company has one month to respond to its plan to correct these inequalities. That was the law that was passed. It seems to me a good law, which will produce its results, and we now enter the most important moment, if you want. He asked me a set of questions about the PRR. I have recently responded to this but I am very pleased to reply again on this matter because our Recovery and Resilience Programme defines, in fact, policies that seek to correct inequalities, particularly gender inequalities. These policies are identified throughout the Programme — it was a requirement of the European Commission which, of course, Portugal complied with — having measures in different areas. For example, in the housing component, which the honourable Member has referred to, the National Stock Exchange of Urgent Housing has been able to respond not only to domestic violence but also to the processes of empowerment in this area. In the SNS part, the strengthening of primary health care, focused on people and proximity, are fundamental in identifying risk situations for domestic violence, and this priority is mentioned. In the qualification component, there are also measures which I have already mentioned recently to increase support for recruitment and training in digital areas. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u85	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real still has time and intends to use it. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u86	Mr President, I thank you for the shortest time. Mr Minister, I would like to say, very telegraphically, still in the field of equality and in relation to the community, that we have heard the clarifications he gave to the Left Block Parliamentary Group. However, we did not realize that investment will be made, in particular, in housing responses, especially emergency. He spoke in EUR 1, EUR 7 million. Where does this money come from? Where will it be invested? Making it depend solely on equality, for example, of the games of the Holy House, is the same as saying that we continue in a logic of fortune or chance. Equality doesn't feel sorry for that! Today, I can't help but ask you one last question, Minister. We heard the PSD and CDS talking about migrants, but no one spoke of the more than 130 people who died last week in the Mediterranean. Portugal must also have a word to say about this and cannot remain silent about this human scourge that strikes at the door of our borders.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u87	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u88	So we can't just talk about prevention, we have to talk about action. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to know what Portugal will do, within the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in this regard. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u89	In reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u90	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, housing policies are funded through the Recovery and Resilience Programme. This value to work on housing is a value that the country has no longer had since the 1990s. As regards the question of refugees, as you know, Portugal participates in the effort of solidarity and is one of the countries that has shown itself most to welcome adults and minors in this context. I think this is recognized by everyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u91	You have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot fail to say that the consequences of this pandemic, which is still among us, are far from being assessed. We do not know what the economic, social and, above all, health consequences, in general, and mental health, in particular, may affect from the younger to the older, but we do not know the consequences of increasing domestic violence in this time of pandemic, in which victims were forced to live with abusers, criminals. There are even studies that indicate that one third of the victims will have been for the first time in these confinement periods. On the other hand, women represent a large part of the workers who were chosen to be called "frontline", not only as health professionals, but also as home workers, cleaning assistants in schools, hospitals, support structures for the elderly and in support of the household. Women are also the ones who work most in essential services, such as in supermarket boxes, in companies and industries that have not closed and who therefore suffered the daily pressure of being carriers of the disease and of taking home, for the elderly family and children. And we can't help but remember that these workers, mostly women, dealt with hundreds of people a day and got out of the vaccination plan, when it was essential to be protected. Since they have even come to these workers and to these workers the immense palms and thanks so pompous of valuing their role, which has allowed everyone to have access to food during the first confinement, it will be seen and a good part of these workers receive only the national minimum wage or little more, taking home, at the end of the month, amounts that are barely enough to pay the income, fixed expenses, such as electricity, gas, water, child education. They were the ones who courageously left home, even when we knew nothing about what we were living. So what we would like to ask, Mrs Minister, is whether, after this experience and all the elements of inequality with which we have been confronted, and which were not surprising to anyone, the government will take steps to a significant increase in the wages of these workers, because they remained in their daily jobs. They are also the bulk of the column of the many thousands of Portuguese workers who are impoverished! Especially because the key to solving a large part of the problems of domestic violence will also be to break down, in particular economic dependence on abusers — the pandemic has clearly aggravated the issues of domestic violence that many women have suffered during confinement for the first time — the problem of violence still unfortunately requires a considerable set of measures to be taken, adapted and implemented. Mr Minister, are the public services supporting these victims being strengthened? Are public service officials being trained? He said that this will be done in the coming weeks, but I hope it is not because of this pandemic, because the need of public security professionals to care for and ensure the safety of these victims was clearly identified.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u94	Mr. President, I'm really finishing up. Finally, we know that women are the biggest victims of domestic violence and, even during dating,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u95	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u96	... but it is still necessary to encourage the complaint in the male. Men and young people cannot continue to be discriminated against, ridiculed or abandoned when they admit they are victims of domestic violence. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u97	In reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not deny — I have never done so and it would not be today the first day that I would do so — that this crisis has different impacts on men and women. In fact, I have brought this subject permanently to the Assembly of the Republic. In order to define public policies we also need to know what results are and what does not result, so it is also worth looking at the path we have made in recent years — and I purposely say 'we did', in the first person in the plural. The truth is that when we look at the percentage of population at risk of poverty, we see that in 2015 it was 27 % and now it is 22 %; when we look at the unemployment rate of women, we see that it was 13 % in 2015 and that it is now 7 %; when we look at precarious employment, we see that it also significantly reduced from 3 % to 1 %, 7 %, according to INE data during this period. That is, we know what policies promote greater equality between men and women and what policies we have been developing since 2015. It is clear that a crisis has a brutal and significant impact, but it is with the policies we have already created and with its development that we will continue to reduce poverty among women, reduce wage inequalities, reduce job insecurity. Therefore, as I mentioned here today for a long time, both the emergency measures we have created, and the measures we have included in the Recovery and Resilience Programme, enable us to respond to these inequalities, increasing support in the sex represented in the professions, ensuring that, in training and digital areas, there is promotion of equality and that, in the great effort that the country will make in the formation of the fields of science, technology, mathematics and so on, there is also this contribution of equality policies for this correction. With regard to the answer to the issues of domestic violence, in the plan that we have developed since 2019, we have sought to develop training for all areas that respond to this issue, from the scope of the National Network of Support to the Victims of Domestic Violence, the police and the area of justice. The idea was to build an annual training plan, which is now published, and our goal is to train 13 000 people in this funding package that we have now approved. The INA (General Directorate for the Qualification of Workers in Public Functions) was finishing the formation of the classes and so the next weeks will even be going to be in this direction. It was necessary to do something that did not exist and we tried to do it: a common plan which obviously has differences between the sectors, but which has a common trunk to respond to this matter. One of the criticisms made to the country was that formations to different agents do not cross each other, if they do not articulate in the response. This is what we are trying to promote here and training is already funded and will start. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u99	You have the floor, to ask questions, Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u100	Mr President, I welcome the Minister and the members of the Government. Mrs Minister, I would like to ask you a question which you have not yet answered in the various interventions that have been made and today you cannot help but give. Will you or will you not keep activist Mamadou Ba in the Working Group on Prevention and Combating Racism? I will not ask you any more questions so that we can all know, today, finally, whether you are going to keep it or not. Someone who called our cops "beast" who said he wanted to kill the white men,... [[Laughs from the Member of the BE Fabíola Cardoso.]] Don't laugh, Your Honor! One day can be you too! We deserve a reply from the Minister of State to say whether he will maintain an element of these, a toxic asset of these in a working group of his Ministry, under his protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u101	Toxic asset? Good expression!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u102	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u103	Mr President, Mr President, you must never have asked me that question because this Parliament is the second time you ask me questions and the first time since that working group exists. So it is certainly the first time you ask me, because, at sessions where I have been, Mr Deputy, so far, you have only been once. The Government decided to set up a working group to support the development of the National Plan to Combat Racism and Discrimination. This working group has experts from university institutions and has representatives from civil society organizations. Mamadou Ba is a representative of an organization that has been fighting racism in Portugal for decades and is in the working group to make its contribution, which has already been handed over to the government. [[Congratulations from the PS and the Member of the BE Fabíola Cardoso.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u104	Mr. André Ventura, still has 49 seconds. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u105	Mr President, we have learned that the Minister is not disturbed by statements of the kind 'police boss we have'. We are very happy to know that! The government will give EUR 15 million for the fight against racism, in fact for a proposal approved in Parliament, in which it would buy advertising space...Minister, don't look at me with that face! It was approved in Parliament by your party! It is EUR 15 million for the fight against racism! I'd like to ask you how much we're going to spend. At a time when the country has no money to support independent workers, to support public officials, to support the unemployed, to support pensioners, how much will we spend on campaigns against racism? It is of the most elementary justice that the country knows how much we will spend on this! I would like the Minister finally to be able to answer, so that we won't just be watching TV shows wondering whether it's 15 million, 15 billion, 30 million or 20 million! Mrs. Minister saw it, because I too saw and passed through a channel on time, indeed, quite noble. Finally, I would like to ask you this: there is a great confusion about the participation of medicines in asylum seekers. But the confusion is political, because the legal I already know. to the exiles and refugees, the State pays 100 % of the medicines, i.e. it gives a 100 % share.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u106	Mr. Deputies, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u107	Mr. President, I will finish. How does it explain to the country that there are elderly people who can't afford the medication? How does it explain that there are so many workers who pay taxes and cannot afford medicines and that people who come for asylum and how refugees have 100% participation?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u108	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u109	I want to ask you if you agree with this and how a good state can live with this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u110	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not have much hope that you will understand the answer or accept it, because I already know that you will then cut videos and only care about your question and never get the answers you get. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The 15 million that Mr has systematically referred to is included in a package of measures for the entire Government to respond to the disclosure related to the topic of COVID-19. This package allowed, for example, to disseminate the announcement that helps victims of domestic violence to know what to do, to complain about, what to organize when they file a complaint, having been visible in many newspapers. As I have already had the opportunity to tell several Members, I believe that this has enabled us to respond effectively to domestic violence. We can say, as you often say, that there is no racism. We all know it exists! What happens is that some people choose to fight him and others don't give him a voice. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u112	That is what you are doing when you say that refugees or asylum seekers do not pay drugs and other people pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u113	It's not me, it's the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u114	Mrs. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u115	I will now finish, Mr President. Portugal has a policy of support for a number of people who arrive in our country without anything, such as a policy of support for the poorest people, who also do not pay for drugs. That's what we're talking about when we talk about equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u116	To put questions, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Minister, there are a number of questions that I would like to ask you, but which have already been addressed, in particular with regard to your concern about domestic violence in times of pandemic. Let us see how far the results of the measures that the Government has put into practice are coming. We have learned that there is an opening of the government to accompany those who in Parliament have proposed the criminalization of exposure of minors to domestic violence. I just don't understand why last May the PS — I think there is still some coordination between the PS and the government — voted against the proposal of the Liberal Initiative. However, since there are questions that have not been answered, I would like to know what the situation is and what balance is being taken by the Minister of the introduction of two new valences in the information system, namely the SMS 3060 line and the e-mail line, for the submission of complaints in the context of domestic violence. Also in the field of gender equality on 20 April, 43 of the 54 members of the UN Economic and Social Council ( United Nations Organization ) — Portugal is one of these members — voted in favour of Iran's integration into the Commission on the Status of Women, which is one of the most important international agencies for the protection of gender equality. I would like to know if you could tell me whether Portugal voted in favour of the integration of Iran into the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u118	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u119	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, thank you very much for your questions. I also look forward to seeing whether the measures we have taken, until the end of this crisis, have been effective in combating domestic violence. I have no doubt that this is an ongoing work that we continue to do. With these different reinforcements of our ability to assist, — both on telephone lines, e-mails and SMS lines — we have received, since 19 March 2020, through these three channels, 1941 requests for help, which means, as Mr Telmo Correia recently said, an increase in the average of services in 2019. On average, in a few months, in the most difficult, there was a record of more than 11 000, 13 000, services. Mr President, on the last question you raised, I cannot answer you. If I can get information during the debate, I will not fail to inform you. The assessment that we make of these responses to domestic violence is what I said, knowing that it is a continuing work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u120	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor for 9 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u121	Mr. President, that will be enough. Mrs. Minister, I am referring now to cybersecurity. In October 2020, the Minister said that for the 5G network, suppliers would be subject to certification and evaluation processes, so I want to know if this happened and what were the results. The National Security Office has produced a report, which is secret—I do not know what it says—but it seems that there are serious cybersecurity risks for Portugal in 5G networks, not referring to which countries. We know from news that, in the meantime, the public have come, that China and Russia are two of the most cited countries in relation to the problems of state cybersecurity. I would therefore like to know whether it could be brought forward if, in relation to the report it has received, China and Russia are indeed two of the countries at risk for Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u122	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u123	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, the 5G network introduction process in Portugal followed the European recommendation. As you know, the European Union has produced a set of responses, toolbox, and what the working group has done was to draw the measures that would have to exist in Portugal to match them. With regard to these measures, it is simple: there is a decree which the Government has adopted and which is in public consultation at the moment, but, essentially, it is in the Electronic Communications Act that most of the answers to these cybersecurity issues are given, that is where the measures which the European toolbox recommends each country has are included. That is what Portugal has done and it is now up to Parliament to give its approval. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u124	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Elza Pais of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, during this past year, the country has seen the importance of the wager we have always made in equality. It was a bet on strong, structured and robust policies that functioned as an essential shock absorber to endure this pandemic crisis and today, with hope for the future, we are taking back the path of progress that we have been making since 2015. It is important to remember, in this progress agenda, some battles that we have been fighting over the past six years and the recovery that we have been making of structural inequalities. We have approved in this House civil laws for the dignity of the person and against human suffering; laws that guarantee equal legal dignity to hetero and to homoparentity; laws that guarantee the access of all women to assisted drug procreation; laws that guarantee the right to self-determination and to gender identity; and we prevent the retrocessions in relation to IVG(voluntary termination of pregnancy). We have also approved gender-balanced representation laws that break the glass ceiling that prevents women from reaching the top of the economic and political decision, where it is really decided, with very positive implementation results, as we will see, thus speeding up the changes that could take more than 100 years to happen, as is recognized by the International Labour Organization and the United Nations. We have introduced, within Budget, budgets with a gender perspective, we have adopted the law on prevention and combating racial discrimination in 2017, and we now have the national plan against racism to strengthen this fight. In addition, today we have a well-structured National Domestic Violence Support Network, with mechanisms for strengthening and protecting victims — of young people and children, older women, LGBTI people — which in the crisis has supported and assisted more than 80 000 people. There are also various annual prevention campaigns on domestic violence, female genital mutilation, dating violence, etc. etc. etc. We also have a training plan for thousands of people, as the Minister has already said, with an appropriation of EUR 6, EUR 5 million. Last week, we approved the integration of non-governmental organizations — an important achievement — into the Framework Law on Public Utilities, for which we always get baptized. This effort and this work were recognised by the European Institute for Gender Equality, which refers to Portugal as one of the six European countries with a gender balance in Parliament, which is very proud of us. So during the pandemic, we did not let the defense of human rights freeze, for which we have always fought. in a short period of time, several extraordinary social and economic measures and support were implemented to people and families, in a collective effort to mobilize resources, which reached more than 200 000 people. The National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination 2018 - 2030 « Portugal + Equal» has been strengthened to protect the most vulnerable. It has therefore been proven that the social state and equality policies are always important and are even more so in times of crisis. We now have the PRR, a unique opportunity plan, a decisive instrument, as Giddens would say, to recover from the crisis and correct these structural imbalances, from the outset through positive measures that are being planned, particularly in access to decent housing, 26 000 families will have this access, being signalled to victims of domestic violence and even single-parent families ; through increases to projects of female entrepreneurship ; through access to digital with gender balance, because there is a brutal imbalance that already existed before the pandemic and it is expected that now with the PRR to correct itself. Equality is therefore central to a just and intelligent recovery of the crisis. Portugal now leads the destinations of the European Union. I ask you the following: How will the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union ensure that recovery is done only with equal opportunities and with gender equality so that no one will be left behind? How will it prevent European setbacks in this area? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u126	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your questions. As I said recently, even in these difficult times, we need to look at the policies we have designed and, over this extended period, recognize their success. I believe that this is a fundamental element for us to continue to draw better policies. A number of important elements have been mentioned here today, including the improvement of Portugal in the ranking of gender equality, the leap we have made in the area of balanced representation, both in the public bodies and in the boards of directors, and the improvements we have made in the issues of wage disparities. More: when we looked at the last decade, we found that the percentage of men who enjoyed the optional parental leave was 52 % and went to 72 % and the percentage of men who enjoyed the shared licence was 10 % and went to 42 %. We know that policies have these results are of the greatest importance when, in the face of a crisis, we have to design new policies. In the Recovery and Resilience Plan, we sought that the different dimensions in which we know that it is necessary to respond to inequalities between men and women find their space, for example in the area of health and in the social area, which is intended to contribute, as it has always contributed, to the reconciliation between personal, family and professional life; we sought new answers that add to the institutionalization of older people in homes, giving responses of proximity that can be shared between families and public services; we sought answers in housing, as already mentioned by the honourable Member, to respond to the shortcomings of single-parent families; we sought to have an organized response to domestic violence; and we sought, at the moment when we want green transition and digital transition to be fair and can promote equality, to have measures that correct existing inequalities in matters relating to skills and professional training in the digital but not only area. When we look at the data of the PISA (International Student Assessment Programme), we see that among the girls who are best students only a minority is that they want to follow the areas of science and technology, being the boys mostly in these areas and in the minority in the areas of social support. We know that these inequalities come from the construction of stereotypes in which we all participate — families, social media bodies, schools, society as a whole — and therefore the answer must also be from society as a whole and what we seek is to give visibility to these inequalities and find public policies to correct them. But let us not deceive ourselves: the answer to this construction of the idea that some have a better way for one thing and others have a better way for others will not be achieved by any government, by no parliament. It is an answer that involves the whole of society. As far as the dimensions he referred to in European matters are concerned, I believe that the contribution Portugal has made in this semester to equality policies was to build a consensus, which at European level is not always easy. This crisis has had unequal impacts for men and women and there will be answers to correct this inequality. This was the high priority we decided to choose, seeking information from the European Institute for Gender Equality. At the next European Council, we will seek to respond with this consensus about the impacts and a commitment around the measures we need to develop. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u128	To ask questions also by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, during this debate and in recent months, we have come to see what we know and what we are already studying, i.e. that the pandemic crisis is far from being symmetrical from a gender perspective as well. It was the women most affected, as revealed by studies by the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ), ILO ( International Labour Organization ) and the European Commission. In Portugal, too, this crisis was not gender-neutral and women were affected in economic and social terms, deepening inequalities in terms of time-sharing, particularly in terms of unpaid working time. And let us remember the profile of the beneficiaries of extraordinary family support, in which more than 80% are women. The importance of the State budget is therefore emphasized to have strengthened the family allowance and extended the free-of-charge of day-care facilities in an effort to increase the income available to families, but also to enable better reconciliation between the professional and family life of parents. Through these months, measures have been set up to maintain employment, support for employment and support for families and businesses, as well as support for more vulnerable audiences, with a particular impact on women, which are examples of simplified layoff, extraordinary support for progressive recovery of activity and support for child or net assistance in prophylactic isolation. More than 3, 4 billion support has been paid, impacting more than 2, 8 million people who have been covered by these social support. That is also why the legislative instruments created in recent years of socialist governance and with the support of this parliamentary group — instruments such as the law on the promotion of equal pay and the laws on the balanced representation of men and women in decision-making positions, either in the Public Administration, as the Minister pointed out, which increased from 32 % to 42 % of women in leadership positions, both in the bodies of the business sector and in the listed companies in the stock market, where the participation of women also increased from 12 % to 26 % in 2020 — were determinants of a more equal country then to a more democratic country and has this water brand of the Socialist Party. It was also crucial for Programme 3 in the Line, which aims to promote greater balance and reconciliation of professional, personal and family life as a first condition of equality between men and women and for full citizenship, as well as the logic which the Minister referred to the sharing of parental leave. over time, there has been an increase in the proportion of men enjoying this optional licence, which increased from 45 % to 68 %, and the shared licences increased from 9 % to almost 40 %. They are evident advances that allow more justice and that enshrine and deepen equality as provided for in Article 9. that of our Constitution. Therefore, the efforts that have been made in campaigns to promote equality in the IGC (Commission on Citizenship and Gender Equality) or to broaden awareness of discrimination and rights and strengthen protection mechanisms—for example, in the ISCED, which today has strengthened powers—are so necessary. We also welcome the fact that, in conjunction with the State Innovation and Modernisation Strategy and the Public Administration, the training of workers in the field of equality and non-discrimination, also in the area of conciliation, and the creation of mechanisms to ensure that telework does not exacerbate pre-existing gender asymmetries. It is therefore nuclear that we are able to prevent the reproduction of existing centres of inequality in the future and that new focussing on the digital economy and on the professions of access to such activities, i.e. what is referred to as « the future of the world of work ». in this perspective, she questioned the relevance of the Green Paper on the dimension of equality, which the same patent and which is now in social dialogue. In turn, the final version of the PRR, which Portugal delivered yesterday — indeed, Portugal was the first Member State to deliver this document – promotes a new generation of equipment and responses for the first childhood, elderly and disabled, includes measures to promote equal pay and to promote balanced representation in management positions, but also combat stereotypes, particularly in ICTs, which limit the formative choices of girls and women and inform future inequalities we want to reverse and hinder. This gender-responsive recovery and action on structural factors of inequality make, Mr. Minister, that this plan is indeed a unique instrument of opportunity for no one to stay behind, as we are asked by the United Nations Agenda 2030. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u130	In reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions you have put to me. The path we have been taking in the recovery of many indicators of equality between men and women, which I have already mentioned, has had this interruption for a crisis that, like all crises, affects more and more those who were already most vulnerable. Now, the most vulnerable in the labour market are women and, therefore, in the dimensions of precariousness, in the dimensions of low wages, in all these dimensions we see women being more affected than men. This type of measure, which I have already mentioned, both the measures we have already approved, such as the payment of the 100% layoff, or the various social support that you have mentioned, are responding to this emergency, but these are not the only measures that we have to take. We must take measures that will allow children, young girls and young women to be able to live in a context of equal pay for the future. It is clear that these issues of equal pay also have an already mentioned dimension of wage transparency, that people can, for example, know what wages are when they apply for a job and that knowledge is prior to it so that unfairness cannot be built later on. In other words, instruments so that ACT can intervene when there are inequalities. All these instruments, which the law provides and which are in implementation, face a kind of wage inequality which is not exactly the same work, equal pay, but before they all have equal access to work. It is also about these difficulties of access to this work just as we have to act. We see daily published in the newspapers the areas that will have more jobs and that will be better paid in the future and the areas that will lose jobs. It is clear that there is a dimension of this that can be verified or not, but we know that in a more digital society, who has these digital skills will be better placed on the labour market. For three years now we have a programme with high schools with companies in the areas of technology and with many engineers in this country, in order to explain what it is to be an engineer and to motivate girls for these types of careers, but we need more measures. Therefore, at the beginning of the Legislature, in the contract we signed with higher education institutions, this concern was there, that of all higher education institutions have measures to combat this type of professional segregation. Also, the financial instruments that the PRR has in this area seek to respond to this reality. On the one hand, by requiring that each of these programmes have a gender perspective and proposes to correct this inequality and, on the other hand, to increase employment support measures when we are talking about underrepresented sex employment in these areas, and in the case of women's technologies. As Mrs Deputy said, in gender inequality there are immediate response dimensions and structural response dimensions. This Parliament has approved a very strong legislative package which has the legal instruments to enable us to continue this path. It is now lacking to implement it in the day to day, to have the public policies that implement it and to have the answers to build equality in this area in schools, families and higher education institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice-President Antonio Filipe was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u132	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start the second round of questions in this debate. The first party to question Mrs. Minister will be the Left Block. To that end, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u133	Mr President, in this second round I will begin by asking a question related to the Survey on the Conditions, Origins and Trajectories of the Resident Population, which will be conducted by the National Institute of Statistics. This investigation arose from the claim of the social movement and also from the Left Block for the collection of ethnic-racial data to be included in the Census 2021. Since this option was rejected, which was, in our view, the most correct one, the Government has advanced with this investigation and the budget necessary for its achievement is included in the 2021 budget. However, the most recent information, resulting from an interview that the INE President gave to the Express, shows that only at the end of this year, i.e. in the fourth quarter, will be implemented a pilot study in order to measure the model, sample and methodology to be adopted in this investigation, and that the INE President does not commit himself to the conduct of the survey itself in 2022. Given that this discussion began in 2019, and being in public consultation until May 10, the National Plan of Combating Racism and Discrimination, I ask you, Minister, when we will have the results of this investigation. Is it not essential to have this information in order to have robust public policies that effectively correct inequalities resulting from ethnic-racial discrimination? At this rate, with the slowness that this process has been conducted, we are concerned about the information that will be available to support the implementation of this plan, which is fundamental to the correction of inequalities, but also to know the real composition of our country. This information is not yet available, this picture is missing and it is urgent to complete this picture. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u134	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your question. As you know, besides being in the Budget this year, in these exact terms of the pilot's performance, this measure is also part of the National Plan to Combat Racism and Discrimination. The Government believes that more knowledge is given priority in this area and therefore is in the INE's action plan. It happens, however, as I think we have always said, that the year 2021 is very atypical for the normal activities of the National Institute of Statistics. It is the year of the completion of the Censuses and this year it is even more difficult. Performing a population and housing census in the middle of the pandemic brings very new challenges and has demanded a lot of effort from all those who work at the INE, so I always like to thank them. The Survey on the Conditions, Origins and Trajectories of the Resident Population is new, needs to be tested and is always like this with everyone. In fact, there was also a census test, because that is what makes it possible to have a better investigation. Madam Member, I do not know how to answer you as regards 2022, but I promise that next time I come here, I will bring you an answer on the concrete moment when we have the final version. However, it seems very important to me that we can move on to the pilot test, which will already bring us some information. In addition to the pilot's investigation, we still have the regular way of the 2021 employment survey which is specifically devoted to the topic 'the situation of migrants and their descendants in the labour market'. It is a sample survey, from eight to eight years, and it will also provide us with very relevant information on this matter. Data collection started in January 2021, runs until 2022 and we will have data on this investigation in March 2022. I believe that we will soon have much more information than we have today and I agree with the honourable Member when he says that this information is of the greatest relevance to the definition of public policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u136	To ask questions, I now give the floor to Mrs Diana Santos, whom I welcome for this first intervention in this House. Please receive our greetings, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, at a time when we are about to implement the Recovery and Resilience Plan and finally the disability strategy will emerge, where it is also urgent to draw new policies, I am asking to bring to this debate the importance of a more assertive and effective fight against discrimination against disabled people — one of the most structurally affected sectoral groups with this pandemic. Such discrimination is transversal to one of the most oppressed groups in society and also assumes double and triple dimensions, when combining cross-sectional foundations such as gender, ethnicity, religion and sexual orientation. This discussion is not entirely appropriate for us to be confined to a State Secretariat, when we are faced with cross-border discrimination that lack effective equality policies and it is in this convergence that must be assumed, making no sense to cantonate answers. That is why we are guided by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and that is what is expected of democratic states in 2021. We are talking about such cross-cutting issues as violence and hate crimes against disabled people, who have also worsened with the pandemic. We all know what happens, but they're completely hidden in our country. It is urgent to end this invisibility, which must be denounced and, in cases, the perpetrators must be punished in an exemplary manner. We know that it does not happen because there are no adequate and widespread structures and responses in the field that allow these victims to be welcomed safely, with comfort and dignity. It's urgent to think of an answer. We are also talking about Law No 4 / 2019, which establishes the system of employment quotas for persons with disabilities, with a degree of disability equal to or greater than 60 %, which is being quite useful, but which, with no monitoring mechanism, does not protect any person with disabilities from false and distorted competitions that open minimum vacancies at any time, so that they do not have quotas to meet. We are talking about access to public transport. If we focus on the Great Lisbon region, exceptionally, there are still some public transport accessible to people with reduced mobility, however, any citizen who acquires their pass does not have any discount and the possibilities of travel are very summarized because the offer is quite scarce. Companies may continue to register vehicles and fleets which are inaccessible, regardless of the year of manufacture of their own equipment, whether urban or long-term, and persons with disabilities continue to be affected in their time and free will by obeying the early marking for example, the movement of trains or confirmation of use of lifts, railway stations, etc. Law No 46 / 2006, which, idyllicly, would prohibit and punish discrimination in relation to disability and aggravated risk of health, is having no impact. For example, there are data from the National Institute for Rehabilitation, 2019, which account for a total of 1076 complaints under that law. And, of these, only one complaint culminated with the application of fine, being considered a process of counter-ordination. More than 93 complaints were filed for lack of evidence. Question: given that these data are so dissuasive to people with disabilities and that they are not believing in compliance with this law, what does the government consider doing? Do you have any plans to motivate people to actually feel protected? Finally, I wanted to leave a reference to Census 2021. It is important to strengthen positively the framework in the social model of disability and the issues raised, to measure the different limitations or physical and cognitive difficulties of disabled citizens. This makes it possible not to be excluded from persons who, for the most various reasons, do not have their disability validated and quantified as multi-purpose attestation. That's very beneficial. It is regrettable, however, that all the questions that aim to address this condition ask citizens and citizens who have optionally referred to their health problems, showing, again, the medical model still so rooted in our culture. Not all people with disabilities suffer from associated health problems and therefore we believe that this situation should be reviewed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u138	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say hello to you because this is the first time that I have the opportunity to answer questions put by you. Some of the questions that you have asked are not my area. I will, however, try to answer some of your questions, which are, in fact, related to one of the issues that concerns us, which is the crossing of the cross-sectionality of inequalities. First of all, I wanted to say that we have two responses, in the area of domestic disability, specializing in this matter, one being in the area of people with physical disabilities and the other in the area of mental health. And we have, in the training package in the area of domestic violence, which I have already mentioned several times, a module specifically aimed at this type of violence so that all those who work in the national network to combat domestic violence and all those who work in this area can have specific training in this area. This is always a fundamental element of improving our response capacity. Secondly, I would like to say that, as you know, the Recovery and Resilience Plan, in the dimension of social vulnerabilities, has also provided for two measures in the area of disability. One concerns responses and social equipment — it has envisaged an improvement in our capacity to respond from the point of view of the territory and some specialization — and the other concerns accessibility, where there is a significant amount of money. Finally, I would like to tell you that, precisely in order to respond to the multiple discriminations and the cross-sectionality which you have mentioned, we now have an open competition for a white book on this subject, in order to seek to interconnect the different responses in the area of equality and discrimination, since they really need that interlinkage. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u140	Let's move on to the questions of the Socialist Party. To that end, Mr Bruno Aragão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to recover for plenary, for the importance it seems to us to have, one of the subjects that we have explored at the last hearing of the Minister. The foundations, either public or private, perform a mission itself, which is why we recognise a specific framework law. This mission, by its social nature and by its commitment to the community, is based on the collective assumption of a special status that we must improve. the national foundation register, which entered into force on 1 January 2020, contains more than 800 foundations, some of which have a public utility status. from culture to research, from education to sport, from humanitarian support to victim assistance, the work of these foundations is essential in the community and solidarity perspective that we have of society and, above all, as a result of the philanthropic vision of its founders or founders. The current regime has been improved over the years, always reinforcing the public perception of the nature of these institutions. But the Government's intention is known to strengthen the powers of supervision of private foundations, bringing them closer to the regime that already exists for public foundations. The current law already provides for three possible forms of extinction of foundations in three specific circumstances. However, there are no mechanisms that allow effective monitoring of these circumstances, nor mechanisms that allow an effective understanding of whether there are grounds for intervention, for example, declaring its end. In practice, there is a legal framework that provides for such situations, but then there are gaps that do not actually allow them to be implemented. My question, Minister, is very concrete: how does the Government intend to ensure effective exercise of the supervisory powers over these foundations while respecting its autonomy as public citizens of private law? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u142	You have the floor to reply to the honourable Member, the Secretary of State of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, André Caldas.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bruno Aragão, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your continued interest in these matters. The XXII Government Programme precisely values this philanthropic dimension and the social purposes of this type of entity, which means that we implement public policies to combat a certain stigma that has ended up hitting some of these entities. Therefore, in addition to some flexibility in its management tools, it seems essential to clarify the monitoring regime, particularly the supervision regime by the competent authority for the recognition of those foundations that have deviated from the purposes for which they were recognised. This will enable the entire foundational sector to be credible and will enhance its work by combining itself with another initiative approved by this Parliament last week, the Framework Law of the Staff Regulations, which allowed for a very strong legislative consolidation, a strong administrative simplification of the procedures for the award of this statute, but also an intertemporal credibility of the regime, providing the competent authority for this allocation of the mechanisms it needs to verify whether, over time, these entities maintain the requirements for which they have originally seen their status of public utility recognised. This represents a package of initiatives that will solidify the public perception of the importance of these entities and thereby remove all black clouds that in the past have obscured their actions, allowing, in a definitive way, to value their social importance, which is often complementary to the State itself in its action. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u144	You have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Telma Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome Mrs. Minister and your team. I begin by mentioning three facts. First of all: Portugal has the best integration policies for migrants — it is due to the socialist governments. Second, Portugal is among the countries with the best measures to protect migrants during the pandemic — it is due to this socialist government. Thirdly, these policies and job opportunities bring many migrants to the Beja district. After the facts, the questions. in this pandemic it was possible to democratize access to health for all migrants, regardless of the stage of regularization in which they are found. Question : did this measure come to stay? Being Vaccination to COVID-19 considered a means of protection of the community, I ask you to clarify: how will vaccination work for migrants without user numbers? It has become clear, since it has been decreed that Odemira returns in defination, leaving behind, unjustly, an entire local community and economy, that the equation is wrong. The floating migrant population counts for the numberer of the equation, but must also count for the denominator of the same equation. Is the government available to adjust it? It also indicates that Aljezur already has an incidence of cases coming from Odemira, because the virus does not know the administrative regions. in this phase, in which although we are still in the tunnel, we already see a light at the bottom of it, will it not make sense to join the equation-base of all the municipalities the common effort and its context, considering as indicators the test index, the immunization, the load in the SNS and the population density? For all this, will it not make sense that the next measures are more proportionate to each context, to each territory? Mrs Minister, I know you might be thinking: "The honourable Member brings up a number of issues that are not for me. "But they are, Mrs Minister, because what I am talking to you about, and what we are very concerned about, is the vulnerability of relations between territories, relations between economic sectors, relations between locals and migrants. We cannot call into question all the work of local authorities, authorities and government for integration and inclusion. It is this work that makes the Bulgarians, the Ukrainians, the Indians, the Nepalis become the Gergana, the Volodimir, the Harpreet Singh, the Shova Gurung, the Efson, who is my daughter Olivia's best friends. What I am talking about, Mrs Minister, is the necessary defence, without intransigence, of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, for which the Socialist Government and this Parliamentary Group do not need to ask for measures, but they need to continue in a position to defend these rights, of those of which the common minister too. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u146	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your question, which is, of course, my responsibility to respond, for many reasons, from now on because I am a guardian, in this Government, the cross-sectional area of inequalities, because I have the background of integration and migration and also because, since I am a minister, I have sought to support the Odemira council. In fact, I cannot but praise, at this most difficult moment, all the work that is done there. I recommend to all the ladies and gentlemen. Members who can visit the São Teotonio School who do so and see the answer given there, which is of the best I have seen with regard to integration policies in this country. The response we have sought to give in the area of health to all people living in Portugal, regardless of the situation of its regularization, has in Odemira an extreme example. If we had not guaranteed, with that office, that everyone had access to a number of users and to a health response, everything would be more difficult. If we had not guaranteed in this House, when the Health Bases Act was approved, that these support was for everyone and that the reduction of moderate rates was for everyone, regardless of their regularization situation, we would be responding to this pandemic in situations far more difficult than we are. The honourable Member asks me questions about the indicators that have been selected. We must understand that we are using indicators to define our measures, which are indicators that the country reports weekly to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Therefore, there is a balance here in the indicators used officially and in those used for our decision-making, although, as you know, in the Council of Ministers resolution it is also expected to take into account the number of tests, the positivity of tests and the response capacity of the SNS. As the honourable Member said, Odemira's situation today is better than it was a week ago. We see a declining situation in the number of cases, which also has to do with a focused response that we have sought, with the strengthening of the health teams, the ACT teams, the social security teams and the High Commissioner for Migration teams, seeking to support what is most important, beyond the formulas and indicators, and ensuring that everyone who is ill has no contact with anyone else and can make their isolation in a dignified situation, in a position to have access to food and social support. This is what, in a proximity logic and with teams formed for this purpose, we are seeking to do and that we will continue to do, with the inexhaustible support of the Odemira City Council. I will now give you a very quick answer to one of the questions you have raised. at the same time that these offices have allowed access to SNS, we are also implementing the decisions contained in the Strategic Plan for Migration, i.e. to ensure that everyone has a user number and that it is part of residence permits. Therefore, if there is a dimension of urgency, there is also a dimension of structural response, which is to maintain and deepen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u148	You now have the floor to Mrs Romualda Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u149	Mr President, Mrs Minister of State and the Presidency, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the question I bring here, Mrs Minister, concerns the National Plan of Combating Racism and Discrimination for the period from 2021 to 2025, recently put in public consultation until 10 May, which, from now on, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes, addressing a measure of the Government's programme with a view to achieving the right to equality and non-discrimination, a foundation of Portuguese democracy, constitutionally consecrated. This plan reflects the Government's determination in the full appreciation of the diversity that integrates Portuguese society and that enriches it and in combating racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and intolerance associated with these phenomena, in line with the European Union's New Action Plan against Racism 2020 - 2025. It is a national strategy based on a community vision that seeks inclusion, which rejects social exclusion, which is cross-cutting, cross-sectoral and cross-sectional, and which, although with emphasis on preventing and combating racism and discrimination, does not overlook the fight against all forms of inequality and all situations of social exclusion, in line with policies to promote social inclusion, children and young people from more vulnerable socio-economic contexts, within the framework of the Choices Programme, which has been in force since 2001 and also created by a Government of the Socialist Party. Only in this way can we unite all victims of exclusion so that together we fight against populism, closed and aggressive nationalism, which stimulate hatred and resentment. I also welcome the auscultation of civil society and relevant actors, through the Working Group on Prevention and Combating Racism and Discrimination, during the preparation phase of this plan. I ask you, Mrs Minister, whether among the different areas of intervention which the plan recommends there are some or some that consider it more priority and that may praise the others. Finally, I ask you whether the implementation of this plan is expected during this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u150	To reply, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for Citizenship and Equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u151	Mr President, Mrs Romualda Fernandes, regarding the process of drawing up and producing this document, now in public consultation, I should like to point out that today we have 40 contributions on the consultation platform, which we very much like, because what we want is a very involved and widely discussed plan. As we know, this document also resulted from a very involved process, from a working group that worked intensively from November to the date of a first preliminary report. It also counted on the contribution of a set of central government areas in this fight which is also multidimensional. Therefore, our perspective is that it is still approved during our Presidency of the European Union, which would also be symbolic. In reply to your second question, I must say that there are measures which are immediately starting and will therefore be taken during 2021. The key areas were identified as 10 areas, including governance, information and knowledge. And here we have, as a fundamental foundation of a transformation that is necessary in combating ethical-racial discrimination and racism, the training and training of professionals and also the production of information, knowledge and data today as a fundamental mechanism for the production of more effective policies in this area. I would say that the area of education is also structured in terms not only of content, but also of combating segregation among schools and, within schools themselves, the dimension of higher education, always respecting the autonomy of higher education institutions, the dimension of work/employment, where there is still a set of barriers to equality in this area, and the structural dimension of housing, which will greatly benefit from this true transformer package, already mentioned here today by the Minister and envisaged in the Recovery and Resilence Plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u152	The PS still has 24 seconds, but I assume it no longer intends to use them. So you have the floor for the PSD, Mr. Arthur Sovereign Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u153	Mr President, Mrs Minister of State and the Presidency, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Last week, Madam Minister, the PSD asked you about a question you want to keep on the agenda, because it attaches great importance to you, which is the dramatic demographic issue, that we should all be reminded of. Another example to add to what we gave last week and which well illustrates the seriousness of the situation has to do with the population density at the municipal level. The variations are, in fact, gross: there are municipalities with 13 inhabitants per km2 and others with 950 inhabitants per km2, and at the level of the parish, the differences are even greater. On the present situation we have already discussed last week, so for today, I bring here some notes about whether, as far as the future is concerned, we can be optimistic, or whether, on the contrary, we should be quite concerned. According to respectable forecasts, the country will lose at least 7% of the resident population by 2050. For young people, the loss will be 20 % and the population under 65 years of age will decrease approximately 10 %. For people over 90 years of age, the increase will be almost 200 % (I believe that the percentage will be, except for error, 186 %). Thus, on the basis of what we said last week about the present and what we add today about the future, the PSD, in addition to the issues it has already raised, adds a few more. First of all, what will the government do to mitigate the differences between the regions, which the Minister, last week, acknowledged existed? Secondly, I would like to ask: has the Government planned measures for the interior so that the interior can also benefit from possible migration balances in order to mitigate asymmetries of settlement? Thirdly, does the Government recognise that our demographic imbalance contributes to exacerbating social inequalities? This question is almost rhetorical, for it is certainly affirmative. Fourthly, does the Government, in the context of what we are dealing with here, attach any importance to the Portuguese who are living abroad? We are talking about more than 2, 5 million people, so it seems to me that this factor should also be taken into account. Fifthly, does the government now have any assessment of the impact that the pandemic can have on the worsening of these circumstances? Sixthly, what concrete measures will the Government take to break this population definition? Finally, on the basis of the principle that these measures will exist, what is the timing of these measures and what are the results that the Government is planning to achieve? Mrs. Minister, I have your true esteem, so what I'm going to say next is with all due respect. When he answered Telmo Correia recently, referring to an ad, I remembered — you do not remember, because, fortunately, he is still very young — an iconic announcement from Regisconta. The voice was from Very Nice, Fernando Girão, and in that announcement Regisconta was « that machine ». It turns out that everyone wanted to be, according to Regisconta, « men regisconta », and Regisconta had an unfortunate end. Now, as it is obvious, this has nothing to do with you Exa—it's my style, I hope it doesn't go wrong. What we mean by this is that, I hope the announcements that you are making do not have the outcome that Regisconta had. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u154	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u155	Mr President, Mr. Arthur Sovereign Andrade, I thank you for your questions. As we are in the year of census, we will have data, even this year, that will give us a more faithful portrait than the country is today in the dimensions of territorial cohesion and in the demographic issues related to the territories. We know that there will be no good news that we all recognize that we have a demographic problem and that we have a demographic problem that accentuates territorial inequalities. Last week, when I was asked this set of questions about demography, I answered the same thing that I would reply to you and then I would develop the concrete questions. Since 2015 we have sought to design public policies that promote an effective response to the demographic challenge. What are these policies? These are income-enhancing policies, social support-enhancing policies, policies to strengthen our capacity to host migrants, policies that ultimately want to better live in Portugal, because this is always the best condition for us to face demographic challenges. That is why, in times of crisis, we have more and more severe demographic situations than we have outside the periods of crisis. And the numbers that I have, and that I am going to repeat now, show that we have had some success in these policies, because we have a positive migration balance since 2017, which has not happened for many years now, because there is a slight improvement in fertility indicators, that is, people are closer to having the children they wish to have, which is what we can guarantee. And we believe that it is combating precariousness, that it is having responses in the area of housing, that it is strengthening social support, that it is strengthening the capacity of response in day care and pre-school education that we can respond to the demographic challenge. It was in this sense that we have taken many measures over these years: increasing the family allowance up to 6 years; increasing the deduction by number of children, correcting that time when deductions varied according to the parent's wealth; promoting automatic renewals of residence permits; responding in the plan of continued care; responding with more investment in social equipment and with the freeness of day care n° 1. o is 2. The steps. In terms of measures related to the territory, we have developed multiple support measures so that people can choose to live inside. Yesterday — I think it was yesterday — it was news, for example, of a set of centres that could enable remote work, in telework, so that more people could live in the interior, even doing their work at a distance. We have a programme to support job creation in the interior, called + COESO Employment, which gives very significant support to this location. And we answered by trying to attract meaningful investments to the country — which we still did, for example, in Sines this week — that could allow all regions of the country to be able to attract populations. That's how we did it. We all know that the answer to the demographic challenge is more than a marathon, there is a lot for a marathon. And the government believes that this challenge has a response in the area of birth policies, but it also has a very significant response in the area of migration policies. And Odemira — looking at Mrs Telma Guerreiro — is an example of population growth through migration. It also brings challenges. Here we are to answer them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u156	Now you have the floor to Mrs Carla Borges.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Minister, allow me to present to you a scenario, which had already come before the pandemic, but that the pandemic has worsened, based on the follow-up we make on the ground with the various actors involved in domestic violence. Unfortunately, as we all know, domestic violence is brutally silent, which prevents not only identification as well as a muscle action from its beginning. And sometimes before signs of domestic violence, others emerge, such as depressive frames or, in the case of children, lack of learning or risk behaviors signalled in school context by early intervention teams or then by the Child and Youth Protection Commissions. In any case, there is the creation of an individual process, by each entity, concerning the diagnosed situation. But, as we know, domestic violence is often an ongoing act, where the mental health of victims deteriorates from day to day, giving rise to serious mental disorders. Victims become accompanied by mental health or pedopsychiatry units and other entities become involved. But one day domestic violence wins voice and the situation is marked. And in the defense and protection of victims, other institutions are called upon to intervene, joining the previous ones, such as the GNR ( Republican National Guard ), the Public Prosecutor's Office or victim support institutions, each of which is monitoring in the field of their protection. But sometimes the situation gets even worse. The victims are forced to leave home and are welcomed in a foster home, leaving everything behind, i.e., family, work, school, friends. Your lives are interrupted. Because of these circumstances, there are also sometimes the institutions that, until now, followed them, as well as their individual processes, which sometimes also occurs when the victims have to leave the house where they were initially received, moving to another house, far further away. in this context of enormous vulnerability, the knowledge of the clinical or educational history of the victims assumes a decisive role for the success of the intervention, which does not always happen. And the question arises: why? It is certainly not because of the lack of commitment and spirit of mission of all professionals involved, whose dedication and sense of mission in the monitoring of victims of domestic violence and in the protection of children and young people at risk we record in a stressed manner. The question that arises is another, is about the urgent need to expedite procedures and responses at an interministerial level, enabling cross-sectoral intervention, and there must be clear guidance on this matter, safeguarding the imperative need for the protection of victims with regard to their identity or other personal data, without undermining the ethical and ethical code of the various professionals, promoting due monitoring and knowledge of the history and path of victims in their most varied aspects, especially in the field of mental health and education, in order to ensure effective intervention. Despite what the Minister has mentioned several times in this House about the training plan, let me say that what we are talking about goes a long way beyond this in the area of the inter-ministerial relationship that is necessary. Therefore, Madam Minister, taking into account not only the competences of your Ministry in this area but also its role as Minister of State and Presidency, and its mission to coordinate and monitor the implementation of inter-ministerial measures, given the need for all actors, that there are elements which, by their nature, need to be the knowledge of the technicians accompanying the victims, in order to ensure the success of the interventions, and that the circulation of such information does not flow between the various institutions, I ask you, Minister: what measures do you think are necessary to implement, in order to correct and overcome these entropies of the system? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u158	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Secretary of State for Citizenship and Equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u159	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed done nothing else but improve the system and, precisely, avoid gaps in the relationship between the various parts of this system. In fact, it is already the result of a set of new instruments, since the functional act manual adopted by the OPC ( Criminal Police Bodies ) within 72 hours following the presentation of complaints of ill-treatment committed in the context of domestic violence, which has been produced in an articulated manner, integrating several Ministries, the PGR itself ( Attorney-General of the Republic) and which is there for the training we are going to pursue this month. Also in the field of a set of instruments, and because it referred to the question of children and the necessary intervention in the field of children, we launched a guide for professionals who intervene with children and young victims of violence, which was also produced with the participation of all these Ministries and also the PGR. And the specific guidelines are now being produced for all sectors involved in this area, also reinforcing an intervention that did not exist and which we consider necessary, with the establishment of these specialized psychotherapeutic support responses for children on our network. From the moment the pandemic took place, since March last year, we began to hold regular meetings with all structures — all structures! — that is 244, because we have been able to expand the national coverage of assistance responses. And right now, we have 95 % of the continental territory covered by specialized responses, which work on local networks. We also put ourselves in the strategy of territorialization of responses, with which we commit ourselves through territorialization protocols, which join various sectoral areas and also several local partners, from security forces to the teams of associations and NGOs (non-governmental organizations), specializing in intervention in domestic violence. That's the work we're doing. Moreover, we are strengthening the management capacity of the network itself, which is a decisive step, with the creation of a system of information management across the network. We created a platform for the management of vacancies, which did not exist, became existing in October. And only the existence of this vacancy management platform reduces the search time and improves — improves! — the operation and performance and facilitates the work of the many teams who, during the pandemic, have kept open doors, accompanying and welcoming victims of domestic violence. That's what we're doing and what we're going to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u160	Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u161	Mr President, Minister, the risks and setbacks resulting from the COVID-19 are not by chance. We have had discussions on this very matter several times. Of course, women are the overwhelming majority of workers in the front line of health, in general care and also represent many of the services and essential trade, which have never stopped, for example. Then, because being more affected by precariousness, by fragile and non-compliant links to the functions performed, by informal work situations, by lower wages, by irregular schedules, among other situations, are more easily disposable. And they were dismissed, fired. The confinement and the telework, which also fell more upon them, made an overlap of papers exist. Women had to work, to take care of, to accompany their children's school, to do household chores, which contributed to a step backwards in the balanced sharing of these tasks and in the historical way of women's liberation. But there is still another factor that concerns us very much and which has already been mentioned here today. For all these reasons and some more, women's vulnerability to situations of violence dramatically increases — increasing tensions within the family that confinement and economic situation have meant to victims of domestic violence means being confined to the aggressors. It is also more difficult to ask for help, and the deterioration of the economic and social situation works as an additional preventive measure to break down. About domestic violence has already been described a little bit of the situation and some of the instruments used have been mentioned, but there are questions we would like to insist on, not because of theimosia, but because they are really crucial to having a good answer in this area. As we have already had the opportunity to say, in 2020 the CFP approved in the State budget a balance sheet of the situation, a photograph: in addition to further training of the various actors, it was defined that a raising of needs in the public sphere at the level of human resources in each of the various services to understand how the situation is: how is the situation in health centres and hospitals; how are the adult violence prevention teams, which are the difficulties they face and how many are operational; whether they have professionals dedicated exclusively to this front. What about schools and universities? Sexual education, an essential part of the prevention of dating violence, for example, what obstacles do you encounter? What about the security forces? There are 144 care rooms and support for victims and 641 effectives prepared for these situations. Is this the updated picture of the situation? Need more work to be directed? What balance can you take then? Even with regard to the Public Prosecutor's Office, courts or social security, how many multidisciplinary teams of support in the courts are there in fact on the network? What answers are missing and what are missing in these different responses? That was what we needed to know and that the CFP considered essential, continuing to insist that it be fulfilled. We need to understand, in particular, how we can improve our response. As we know, public services have been impoverished over years, and it is essential that these deficiencies are now covered. I would also like to say that equality is not an abstract design nor can it be only symbolic, being in the field of symbolic representation, it must be literal, it must begin with the basis and be verified in every life, in every work, in every house. And whenever social support fails, whenever rights fail, whenever access to education, health and sexual and reproductive health fail, whenever it fails to achieve conditions worthy of access to culture, for example, we are taking risks of serious setbacks. That is why we must not forget that there is still a lack of respect for maternity rights, for equal pay for equal work, for the objective need for time regulation. And that's only because there is total impunity and the ACT does not objectively respond to needs. There are tremendous upheavals every day, in the sight of everyone and in the sight of the government, and there are no consequences. Thousands of women are experiencing real obstacles, with direct consequences for equality, but in this regard there is no intervention and abuse and arbitrariness remain. Moreover, it is the Public Administration itself that keeps workers in precariousness, as happens in state canteens and in sectors such as cleaning at the service of public institutions, as it is stimulating the return to the house of public officials, with telework. In the same sense and because equality is effective only if it corresponds to concrete conditions for well-being and equal opportunities, which can only be achieved with the development and fight against poverty and exploitation, I would also like to leave a consideration on the National Plan to Combat Racism and Discrimination 2021 - 2025, which points to several fundamental aspects in employment, housing, access to health and social action and sports. We approach housing, very well, being an essential dimension, but we lack a concrete commitment, as we have already had the opportunity to speak. in this respect, as in other matters, this commitment is lacking and in this front it remains to be known whether we will have quality public housing, without segregation logics, such as, how much and when. We're leaving that question. in the same way, it is intended to achieve respect for the labour rights of all, but it is not with codes of conduct and with tools that this goes there. It is not to explain to temporary workers that exploitation is bad that it will no longer be a practice, when it is precisely your business.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u162	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u163	Therefore, it is important to remember that for those who are victims of racism and discrimination, it is not very encouraging a 21-page plan if this plan does not mean a view of the root causes of discrimination, intervening in them—then it is not only identifying, it is finding a solution to people's daily problems. We therefore question what commitments the Government has towards all those who need answers in their lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u164	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u165	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you once again for the questions you have raised and, as in other discussions we have had, I would like to distinguish two plans. The first plan is not to recognize the diagnosis that it makes about the lack of strengthening the response capacity of the public sector. We have responded by strengthening professionals in several areas over the past few years: health professionals are now more than 10 000 than they were in the past year; in the Act, as you know, we have 421 inspectors today, in the process of increasing the picture to 495 ; school workers have increased according to what was agreed in the State budget. Also in the dimension of the response we have discussed, for example, there has been a reinforcement in the recruitment of psychologists, for psychological support, or mediators, for the victim's support offices. As you know, we are currently conducting a national assessment of the victim's support that will result in a clearer picture of the resources and answers that exist and from here on we can also work on their improvement. This follow-up aims precisely to improve the functioning of this network, which is being done with the Ministry of Labour, since many of these answers have dual protection and our objective is to improve the response capacity on a network which, I would like to remind you, has grown significantly from 2015 to now, to cover more 88 municipalities, with more responses and more vague ones since 2015. With regard to the second plan, the fight against racism and discrimination — of which I have already spoken, but I would like to mention it again — our aim was to draw up a set of political measures that would allow for an extended public discussion on the way in which we should go, whether that is the one, whether it is another or need for corrections. Of course, when the Government adopts the plan in its final form, it will have its concrete goals and a specific timetable for each of the measures. This work is done only when we know all the measures that are at stake to say that commitments can be made, in which timetable, when. As the Secretary of State for Citizenship and Equality said, we hope that by the end of this first half the plan will bring concrete goals for each of the measures we have come to define. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u166	Let's move on to the CDS-PP now. Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u167	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, it was exactly about the National Plan of Combating Racism and Discrimination that I would like to speak today. And, before there were misunderstandings, I would like us to share a common principle, which is that of equality as a corollary to the dignity of the human person, therefore, of rejection of discrimination on grounds of descent, sex, race, territory of origin, religion, political convictions, ideologies, instruction, economic condition, social condition or sexual orientation, everything that our Constitution says, everything that article 2 says. the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This is a starting point. It is also a starting point for these principles not yet fully translated into reality, neither the world nor our country. But we are also having this discussion on ways and solutions in a very specific time, in a social time, in a political time and in a very concrete organic time, driven by social networks. It is very easy, at this particular time, that this discourse is polarized in extremism, in identity policies, be left-wing, and I would also like to say that it is a starting point for the rejection of any of these polarizations and that I place myself, in this debate, in a space of moderation, which necessarily has to exist under the penalty of starting more than what we are able to build or make progress. I therefore place myself in this space, as I could not fail to be, as a Christian-democrat, seeking ways of impulse for the most vulnerable, the most forgotten, the underprivileged, and it was with this look that I analyzed the plan here in public consultation. Having said this, because it is important to make these preambles so that there is not even a misunderstanding in the discussions we are having, I am afraid I do not understand a few proposals; in relation to others, I think they are at the border or have some risks worth paying attention to. There are a few proposals that I do not understand for very simple reasons: for example, in the area of health, because they seem to me generalists and could be in this plan—as, moreover, they are in the Government Programme—affected to anyone, with regard to access to primary health care, integrated care, social action at school for all children who need it. Where do I see risks that concern me, for example, in culture? As I have little time, I will have to choose some measures, but this deserved a more extensive conversation. I was saying, for example, about culture when they say 'to value the legislative diplomas that regulate the State's investment in the development of the arts, in the fight against racism and xenophobia', what is the danger I see here? It is the risk of encouraging extreme absurd situations, in my understanding—I may be mistaken—such as those that happened, for example, in England, in the case of Jane Austen's museum, well-known here in Portugal, in which the promoters understood to create an exhibition space to show that, despite Jane Austen's being abolitionist, against slavery, therefore, still had habits that were directly related to imperialism, such as, for example, tea consumption. I do not want to see this kind of excesses happening in Portugal, stimulated by public funding. In higher education, the emblematic measure has to do with the special quota for students of the TEIP schools. I would like to say that if I began to look carefully at the schools, because if we find that these schools, as a whole, are actually fulfilling their role, promised at the beginning, both from the point of view of the results they reach, from the point of view of the means they have and even the degrees of freedom they have. If we look at the latest 2018 evaluation report, we see that school failure in these schools is greater in the final years than in the beginning. In other words, during the school course, the failure of these students is accentuated. Perhaps, it was worth starting with an investment here, or a different look at these schools. Offering these students a way of access to higher education must be made with caution and it is important to choose the words. It seems to me that the quota is good, but it would reject quotas, for example, and criteria of merit and not a green way of access. And it is very important that, next, there is work in universities to accompany these students and that it is not just an emblem, that of combating discrimination, and then nothing is done to ensure that it was not a achievement, because we simply put them there. Finally, Mr President, with your tolerance, I could also speak in education. I am very concerned about what is said here about the image and the modification of curricula, in line with a potential historical revisionism, for which Mr President of the Republic has alerted well here, in his speech on 25 April and with which I cannot agree any more. Therefore, I would say: action, yes, but with caution, in a space of moderation, in the consistency of values and distance ourselves from historical revisionisms, identity fractions that subtract us and that therefore further dehumanize us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u168	The Minister of State and the Presidency has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate your introduction, but I hope you know that it was not necessary in my opinion. It is clear that drawing up this plan requires a set of cautions, because the last thing the government wants is that it becomes an increase in discrimination. That is why we have drawn it up as it is, highlighting well what its transversal principles are, and that is also why we are looking for its public discussion to be as wide as possible, so that we can collect all the contributions, because it seems to me to be the only way to be successful and appropriate by the Portuguese. They will never be all, but, as far as I am concerned, with the priorities we have set, we have the conditions to get a majority of Portuguese to review in this plan, to recognise the problems that it identifies and, agreeing more and less with each other, also with the generality of its action measures. It is true that there are many measures here that could be in any other way. More: here are measures that are at other levels and that is one of the objectives that the Government has set out in these four transversal principles. We believe that this plan is part of an integrated intervention to combat inequalities, because these discriminations are extreme forms of inequality. Therefore, there are measures which Mrs Deputy mentioned here that are part of the National Strategy for Combating Poverty, are part of the Recovery and Resilience Programme and are part of the 1. the right — Access to Housing Support Programme. It is precisely in this spirit that we have built the programme, and that is why I think that some of the concerns which the honourable Member here has conveyed, although they are natural concerns that we have, are not effective risks to the implementation of this plan. This plan follows this logic of wanting to combat all forms of discrimination, all forms of inequality, including those arising from certain prejudices related to race or ethnicity. That is why we are trying to recover policy instruments which — I agree with the honourable Member — need to be improved and, indeed, investment in these programmes is also part of the Recovery and Resilience Programme. What is certain is that, at the end of these years, we have identified territories, we know their characteristics and we know that we have not been able, in many cases—even in cases of full school success—that people can take another step. That's what we're looking for here. We have worked with higher education and have very positive reactions from the Board of Rectors and the Coordinator Council of the Higher Polytechnic Institutes. This quota reproduces other quotas that already exist and therefore we have the conditions to do what I think is required in a Plan to Combat Racism and Discrimination: to guarantee opportunities for people and to ensure that social mobility can happen. That is what we are looking for with the measures we have here, and if in any wording we can reduce risks, we will be here to do so. What we have here is policies to reduce inequalities, to combat discrimination, to enable each one to feel well in the country he has chosen to live. That's what we're looking for. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u170	Let's now move on to the PAN. Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u171	Mr President, I welcome the Minister and her team, and I would like to start with a first question. The Minister has already mentioned a lot of immigrants here today and I would like to know what the Minister's response to what was a public complaint made by the SOLIM Association — Immigration Solidarity, on 11 April, concerning those which are the working conditions of many immigrants, either in Beja or in Ferreira do Alentejo, in what is intensive agriculture, particularly in olives and peanuts.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u172	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State for Integration and Migration, Cláudia Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u173	Mr President, thank you very much for your question, Member of Parliament, which concerns one of our main concerns. Our efforts have always been to integrate the concerns of immigrants into existing government measures. in this sense, in fact, most of the population working in agriculture is an immigrant population and, as I said, the SOLIM association has also shown it, there are measures that need to be improved. We have greatly improved Portuguese language courses, with Portuguese Host Language, which will start very soon. We have a warning of EUR 2, EUR 2 million. Among the various measures there is a quite important one: it will be possible to attend to immigrants who have residence permits, as well as those who have already started the process and still do not have it or those who have the social security number. So we will be able to open up the choice of these immigrants and give them networks. Secondly, we are working on a proximity approach to municipalities, including Beja, but also other municipalities in Alentejo and throughout the country, just for greater involvement, as well as with companies, to improve conditions. Thirdly, local immigration support centres of the High Commissioner for Migration are 116 in the country, in Beja and elsewhere, and have done a very significant job at the local level. For example, there are local centres to support immigrants who go with immigrants themselves who do not have transportation to regional delegations, inform us about housing issues, rent their homes with them. It's a pretty important local approach. I would also like to point out that, with the honourable Members. Autarcas, especially with that of Beja, have worked on the local housing strategy, which can greatly improve both the level of housing acquisition and the level of safe housing rental for immigrants. Finally, the High Commissioner for Migration himself will decentralise his services to Beja and thus have a more effective approach to immigrants. Thank you very much for bringing this matter up, Mrs Deputies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u174	Mrs Bebiana Cunha, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u175	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have a second question, which is within the scope of your powers in promoting citizenship and the participation of citizens and citizens and which deals with an issue that has to do with you indirectly, not without having taken you to the Minister of Public Administration and to the Minister of Education. I'm going to contextualize. In 2018, the Government launched the Participatory Budget, to which several citizens and citizens presented themselves through the regulation that was defined. Other citizens and citizens also participated through the vote, but we know that, after three years, there are still winning projects without response from the government and without being implemented, failing to meet expectations regarding this process of participation. One of these winning projects is precisely Portugal without Touradas. I would therefore like to contextualize it by saying that initially the Minister of Public Administration has given us notice that this project has been passed on to Education and that, in turn, the Minister of Education has said that he would not do it because it was not in his plans. Asking again Mrs. Minister of Public Administration, we then know that she will put the execution of this project into another ministry, through a person who has not yet been officially appointed, who is Ms. Provider of Animals. Therefore, we would like to ask the Minister if she considers that this is a way of dealing with the processes of participation of citizens and citizens, because, indeed, they are still unanswered, and if they consider themselves to see the light of the day during this legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u176	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u177	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with all honesty, this is not really about my area of intervention. I know little more than the honourable Member on this matter right now. What I know is that when we make experimental projects, as the Participatory Budget was, we have to draw conclusions when there are things that need to be improved. I know that the Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration is doing just that. When we have a project, we have to think, of course, what is the entity that will develop it and it is not always obvious. in cases it is, but when it isn't, it's not always easy. The improvements are under way and I think that the honourable Member has the answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u178	You still have time, so you have the floor to proceed, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u179	Mr President, Minister, a third question to end. Much has already been said here today about domestic violence, which, of course, is a scourge of our society that needs multifactorial policies. We recognize that there is a way forward, but there is still much to be done and one of the missing aspects, which has not been even spoken today, and that the NAP has sought to bring the debate, is linked to the fact that our homes sheltered victims of domestic violence are not yet prepared to host the animals of the victims' company. In 2020, we obtained a response from the Government noting that the comprehensive survey was being made to understand how many shelter houses, on the network that exists in Portugal, were prepared to also receive the animals of the victims. In 2021, we saw the proposed adaptation of all shelters into the State budget so that the victims would not be forced to delay their departure because they could not take the animal, putting themselves at risk even more, and thus could not be emotionally supported by these animals. Therefore, we would like to know the point of the situation, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u180	To reply, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for Citizenship and Equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u181	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, in fact, this is a compromise in the State Budget Act. The Committee on Citizenship and Gender Equality has been conducting a survey and analysis in the various structures of the complexity which will involve this dimension and follow-up practice, from the outset, because we have a system set up for the transport of victims. A victim who is a victim in a council goes to another council and, therefore, there are a set of logistical dimensions that are very complex, security and confidentiality. Therefore, this is being studied, it is a work that necessarily involves teams that are on the ground in the management of these structures and processes. In any case, and as you will certainly know, we have already anticipated this situation by introducing into the sheets, in the unique models that the structures also fill, the question of the presence of animals and, including situations of aggressors who, as we know, also attack victims' pets as a form of psychological pressure and terrorism. So, let's draw this project within the complexities I mentioned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u182	We now turn to the ENP, so I give the floor to Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u183	Mr President, Minister, tell us the statistics we had less 1908 births in 2020 than in 2019. It is not a new fact, but it has been emphasized this year, which is understandable in the face of very negative expectations about the future created by a pandemic that has devastated the country and has led each one to resonate his decisions. As I have already said, this is a deeper problem that comes from behind. Economic and social problems are decisive when you take options on life projects and dreams, and when you think about your children, you think about your life course. It therefore understands that it begins at the end of the cycle, including equal access to higher education. In this case too, Mrs. Minister, most higher education students are women. I take this opportunity to welcome the hundreds of students who have expressed themselves today at the door of this House, claiming that very much: a future with guarantees, a future with opportunities, a future with equality. The central issue is the one we put to him in the first question. The question of the conditions of each person to decide to have children. Having a child is an increasingly thoughtful decision. It is therefore necessary to ensure stable and conditional employment. Do those who live in successive precarious contracts or work without a contract, always with the sword of unemployment on their heads, have the conditions to assume that responsibility? In addition to the issue of increasing the national minimum wage, it is necessary to ensure that wages generally increase and that reforms increase, in order to help growth in the economy and to give confidence to young people. But there is still an urgent need to give other answers, from the point of view, to the level of a public day care network, since it is women who face, firstly, the absence of a safe and quality place to leave children and go to work; also to the level of increased family allowance, with its universalization, to cope with increasing expenses; and still to the level of health care in pediatrics and others. It is essential for parents to know that they have more than basic care, including follow-up in ophthalmology or dental medicine. But it is also necessary to respond to the level of public structures to support the elderly, relieving families of burdens that are often unbearable. If these measures are taken, we are confident that the conditions for the birth of more children are guaranteed, for the renewal of generations and for the development of the country. Is that so, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u184	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tasks and public policy measures necessary to respond to this common objective, which is not to seek the solution to the demographic challenge in any image of the past, but to ensure that each person can choose to have the children he wants to have, goes through many of the measures that the honourable Member has listed here and many of the measures that have been implemented over the past few years. In fact, we have today a reinforced family allowance for younger children, whose charges weighed more on their parents' budget; we have free daycare for children from the first two steps; we have today an increase of the school social action grants in higher education which is greater than the increase of the tip and which sees increased the size of housing and student housing compared to what we had; we have today a set of measures provided for in the Recovery and Resilience Programme, in the area of housing, which range from affordable housing, so that young people can form their families earlier than they currently do, and also in the field of student housing we have a programme to significantly strengthen the number of beds available for young students of higher education in our country. As the minimum wage stated, you will also know that, before the pandemic, when we presented the Government's objectives for the evolution of the minimum wage, they were presented in a broader package of income increases and wage increases and not just the minimum wage, aware that we are that, for the new generations, the possibility of empowering their parents' houses to their own houses, the fight against precariousness and fair wages are the fundamental element for them to have their children earlier, because often this is the only way to have their children who want to have them. These measures, as I have said during this afternoon, show positive results. When we look, for example, at the rate of poverty, even of single-parent families, of families with children, which is always a sensitive point in our poverty indicators, we see that since 2015 these indicators have improved. This means we know what policies result. I believe that we all want to achieve this goal and, even with a pandemic, which interrupted this journey, we know how we have to do to recover that path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u186	We have thus concluded this sectoral debate. I thank the Minister, the State Secretaries and the Secretary of State this afternoon, who is already long. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to leave yet, because Secretary Diogo Leon has some announcements to make. Mr. Secretary, please report the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, announcement to the House that they had entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr. President, Bills No. 811 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) and 812 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission and draft resolution No 1230 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR). As far as the relationship between the two of us is concerned. Members present by video conference at the Solemn Commemorative Session of 25 April. Members of the Socialist Party João Azevedo Castro, elected by the electoral circle of the Azores, Carlos Pereira, Marta Freitas and Olavo Câmara, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira, Paulo Pisco, elected by the electoral circle of Europe, and Paulo Porto, elected by the electoral circle of outside Europe. The honourable Members have also been present. Members of the Democratic Social Party Iliadia Quadrado, elected by the electoral circle of the Azores, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sergio Marques, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira, and José Cesario, elected by the electoral circle of outside Europe. Mr President, today's plenary session was present by video conference. Members of the Social Democratic Party Sérgio Marques, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira, and José Cesario, elected by the electoral circle of outside Europe, and the Socialist Party Member Ivan Gonçalves, elected by the electoral circle of Setúbal. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-28.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I recall that our plenary session tomorrow, at 3 p.m., has as its first item on the agenda the presentation and discussion of the Stability Programme, which will be accompanied by the evaluation of Resolution Projects Nos 1111 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government send the PRR in its final version to Parliament for discussion, 1217 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government complement the Stability Programme with an investment programme and a social measures programme 1221 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By the sovereign law of Portugal decide about its future: fighting the virus and its use, ensuring the development of the country and 1223 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — By a strategic vision for the country oriented towards people and businesses: regaining the economy and employment and responding to the social emergency. the second item of the agenda item is the opinion of the Proposal for a Law No 86 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Law of the Great Options for 2021 - 2025. In the end, there will be a regiment vote. We are therefore finishing our work for today. Good afternoon to all and to all. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 6 minutes.]]
