ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is open. [[It was 9 hours and 33 minutes.]] Let's start our work. of the first item on today's agenda is the general assessment of the Bill No 770 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Change and simplify the legal system of parking and parking of motor vehicles, together with Petition No 197 / XIV / 2. a ( Sandra Santos et al.) — By amending Article 50. o -A of the Road Code and also, in general, with Law Projects Nos 776 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Sets out the conditions for the prohibition of camping and parking ( amendment to Article 50 ). the -A of the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May, and republished in Annex to Law No 72 / 2013 of 3 September ), 784 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Revocation of the concept of overnight stay and clarification of parking in the Road Code ( amendment to Articles 48 ). o is 50. the -A of the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May) and 828 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Alter the parking and parking arrangements for motor vehicles ( twenty-first amendment to the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May ). To present the CFP initiative, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Communist Party presents to this House its bill that aims to simplify the legal regime of parking and car parking. The CFP took the initiative to promote this debate in plenary, and therefore marked this agenda, which, from the outset, opened the way for the legislative solution necessary for this problem, with the presentation of its first project in this area. We value the various proposals that followed ours, which essentially accompany us in the same objective, and we welcome the 7886 citizens who subscribed to Petition No 197 / XIV / 2. a, which seeks to amend Article 50. -The Road Code. Thanks to this initiative of the CFP, it was possible to carry out, more rapidly, the debate of the petition in plenary and, more importantly, to enable a concrete, effective and rapid response to the problem identified in it. And the problem lies with the legal regime in force for the use of motorhomes in Portugal, which, if it was previously inconsistent and contradictory, with this last amendment to the Road Code, remained nothing less than absurd. In fact, this whole question can be summed up in one word: overnight. This is a disparate concept which the Government has introduced into the law and which places a vehicle, the motor vehicle, in violation, or not, depending on the time of day or night and the presence, or not, of occupants inside.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u4	Is it 9 o'clock tonight? He's in the middle of the night! Did you open the door of the caravan and go out to the street? He's in the parking lot! Did you come back in? She's in bed again! Are you going to sleep on another vehicle that's not a motorhome? There's no crime anymore! The motorists are being subjected to a situation within the bounds of absurdity. From several countries in Europe there is evidence that Portugal will no longer be the destination of thousands of visitors, who every year give more life to the territories of the interior, a travelling tourism of discovery of the country and of contact and harmony with nature. The use of motorhomes has clear rules that have not raised major disputes. The parking practice, the placement of tables and chairs outside, the opening of windows, cut out, and so on, is already properly planned and regulated. Anyone who engages in this practice in unauthorized locations, who settles in a coastal zone, spreads objects by the site or leaves waste on the ground was already in violation of the law, even before this amendment to the Road Code. We know that there are unscrupulous users, but the problem was and continues to be the lack of supervision, and this is not resolved by adding complications and injustices. But the question arises: are there specific territories and places where it is necessary to restrict the parking of motorhomes itself, particularly at certain times? Is there legitimacy for municipalities, or for entities responsible for protected areas, to define these rules of use, applying restrictions where and when they are justified and opening up the possibilities that reality advises? It is clear that, according to the places in particular, according to the times of the year, but always taking the best options in the planning of the territory and ensuring, each entity in its competences, the supervision that guarantees compliance with the law. in this matter, the appropriate solutions to the coast of Algarve may not be for the serra algarvia, when more for the villages of Trás-os-Montes! Our proposal is very concrete: withdrawing the concept of overnight stay; clarifying that parking does not depend on the presence or not of occupants in the vehicle; and also removing this criterion from the management and sorting regime of the coastal shoreline, leaving its rules for the competent authorities. The definition by the local authorities of the specific rules to be applied, either by a parking ban, by one or two or three nights limitation, by differentiation of vehicle types in accordance with the law, times or months of the year, etc. should be respected. etc. etc. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we promote this debate and this legislative process, and in it we participate constructively in order to respond seriously to the problems. In the context of the public debate on this subject, several contributions and suggestions were presented. We value these contributions and this participation and express complete openness to the joint work, but we hope that this process will be consistent and not merely a cosmetic operation. And the PSD retreat is not great augur! What is needed and urgent is to simplify, clarify and consolidate the regulatory framework in a fair and appropriate way. This is the contribution of the CFP initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u5	To present the DOS Verdes initiative, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Article 50. o -A, which the Government has added to the Road Code, determines the prohibition of overnight parking and parking of caravans or similar outside the places expressly authorized for this purpose. This amendment has led to a series of doubts and confusions in possible interpretations, from the outset because all parking spaces are suitable for light vehicles, provided they are properly parked and do not carry out camps, whether they are with or without occupants. It is recalled that a caravan with a gross weight of 3500 kg or less and with a lot of not more than nine seats, including that of the driver, belongs to the class of light passenger vehicles, with the European type-approval of M1. Therefore, the rule may refer only to vehicles which, in addition to having a residential space, are classified as motorhomes and, as such, the legislation would be applied exclusively to this restricted group. If so, we will have different rules of stay in the parking lots, not allowing light passenger vehicles called ‘caravans’ and their drivers to enjoy the same rights granted to vehicles of the same category and type. But the norm may also refer to any vehicle that presents a housing space, and may thus be included in the concept of motorhomes which is part of the diploma itself. In addition, the standard refers to « permanence », a very unclear concept in this context and that the diploma itself does not, in fact, clarify. The norm also determines the prohibition of stay in parking places, i.e. in appropriate locations for that purpose, therefore for the stay of cars if there are no occupants. That is, the law, keeping itself as it is, makes people on a long road trip unable to leave in a service area and rest, as many drivers do, and how it is recommended for safety issues. Those who drive a motorhome, if they do not find an authorized location for the purpose, will not be able to rest in rest areas unless these areas expressly allow them to do so with that car. It is also worth remembering that there are hundreds of kilometres of extensions where there is no single parking place that allows for the overnight stay of motorhomes. On the other hand, a motorhome may be parked in an appropriate location for this purpose, for example on a public road, provided that, of course, it complies with the parking rules, but its occupants cannot be within 21 hours to 7 hours the next morning, regardless of whether they are awake or sleeping. Of course, the Greens share the concern that has to do with public health issues, road safety and protection and preservation of protected areas. However, the Government's solution does not address some of these problems, particularly road safety, and we have many doubts about their proportionality and justice. Autocaravanism is an expression of travelling tourism and nature and is a growing sector, therefore it is necessary to establish some measures to ensure its sustainability and responsibility, respect for public health, safety, the planning of the territory and environmental values. It happens that this addition, as drafted, does not help to achieve these objectives. For this reason, the Greens are discussing this legislative initiative, which basically merely clarifys the concepts of parking and camping, but maintaining the prohibition of camping and parking of vehicles outside the places expressly authorized for this purpose. We therefore seek to remove the doubts of interpretation and follow closely the claims of the thousands of petitioners who have subscribed to the petition under discussion, petitioners who, on behalf of the Greens, take advantage of greeting. In conclusion, I just want to say that the Greens express their full willingness to find a solution as consensual as possible, which will safeguard what is to be safeguarded, but which will remove these doubts and injustices.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u7	To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Left Block Parliamentary Group wishes, of course, to welcome the more than 7,000 petitioners who brought this issue to the Assembly of the Republic. We had hearings in the context of the discussion of this petition, there were questions asked to the Government, but, above all, there was a lack of reply on the part of the Government in the resolution of something apparently so simple. that is where we are today in plenary discussing a number of proposals on this subject. In fact, autocaravanism is a practice carried out by national and foreign citizens that brings benefits to local economies, both inside and on the country's coast. That is why there is regulation for this activity, and well. In addition to the necessary legislation, it is also essential to create the appropriate conditions for parking and parking this vehicle in its own premises, which are still few in Portugal, safeguarding the environment and safety of users. On May 15, 2020, a decree adopted by the Council of Ministers prohibited the stay of motorhomes or similar in parks and parking areas. Therefore, at this moment, the restriction, which had a temporary character, ended up being transformed into law, to the detriment of all motorists. In fact, this measure has imposed strong restrictions on the mobility of motorists, at a time when demand for this mode grows and assumes greater importance, both in economic terms and in number of vehicles. We remember that these restrictions have no comparison in any European country and, in addition, this measure has caused a situation of difficulty in understanding when compared with other types of vehicles. The concept of 'pernight' in this amendment is problematic, since it discriminates against motor vehicles in relation to all other types of vehicles and ignores the size of the motor vehicle as a means of transport, creating legal contradictions in the Road Code itself. It therefore created an absurd situation and which has no justification. Therefore, on the basis of the law in force, drivers are prevented, for example, from stopping on the trip to rest during the night, although this is recommended on long trips, for example safety issues. And, in this case, the driver of a motor vehicle will have to travel to an area reserved for this purpose, although we all know that the territorial coverage of these equipment is manifestly insufficient. On the other hand, the rest is already allowed if the vehicle is not a motorhome. This doesn't make any sense! Therefore, in view of creating a problem and having unnecessary confusion, it seems to us that the resolution is easy. For this clarification to be made, the Left Block presented the bill under discussion today, which provides for a simple amendment proposal—a clarification of the concepts. We also want to make sure that no existing provisions for the protection of certain areas are amended today, which is important. Caravan parking by the beaches is already properly regulated. It is the responsibility of the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ), in conjunction with the competent municipal chambers and other responsible entities, to assess and regulate interventions under the Coastal Orle Management Plan and should continue to be so. Since there is an apparent majority in the Assembly of the Republic on the need for clarification of the concept of « overnight», it is also necessary to say that the time to solve this problem is now because spring is passing and summer is coming, that is, the time of greater activity, which has already suffered damage last year, is there. So, with all the openness and all the debate, we hope that the Assembly of the Republic will in fact have the ability to solve something as simple as possible as quickly as possible, the well-being of the activity that we all want to continue to grow. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u9	To present the PSD initiative, Mr. Jorge Salgueiro Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u10	Mr President, Dear Members : I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the subscribers of Petition No 197 / XIV / 2. in the person of Mrs. Sandra Santos, I greet. In recent years, the auto-caravanism of travelling tourism has known a great development and has proved to be an ally of local trade and tourism due to consistent demand, which still leads to regional supply. The owners and users of motorhomes, in their majority, use these special vehicles for tourism friendly to the environment, preferably travelling around, i.e. throughout the year, through country and abroad, through touring stages, enjoying the peculiarities of our territory. As a result, municipal chambers have been adopting solutions within their powers and competences in matters of spatial planning and transit and parking, which aim to host, and well, these forms of tourism, creating municipal parking structures and support services, but also licensing private and exclusive areas of services for motor vehicles, partly with Community funds. The increase of self-caravanism in Portugal, with the mentioned advantages, especially for the interior territories, has caused a role of criticism because of disrespect for the environment and by disturbance of the experiences of local populations, with emphasis on the coast and in particular for Alentejo and Algarve. In other words, the environmental balances and the neighbouring relations of some — I repeat, of some — motorists with the territories and populations visited have been called into question. With the massification of autocaravan tourism, the idyllic image, the romanticism of a cabin next to the beach was, in part, and by some roots of autocaravanism, replaced by a house on the beach. It is true that in recent years some authorities have been demanding the adoption of legislative measures which safeguard the right to parking motorhomes in public space and which clearly regulate parking and overnight conditions. In view of this picture, the government sought to put an order in the sector, in order to control the abuses, I repeat, of some, but it was wrong for the government to legislate through the silence of the night, i.e. taking advantage of the confinement, at a time when the motorists were detained in their homes. Unsatisfied with these subtleties, the Government, instead of taking the specificity of the problem, which requires a solution, acted on the ride of a alleged amendment to the Road Code by transposition of Community Directive introducing Article 50. o -A — a 'A' of surprise, which left motorhome drivers stunned. Worse, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was the government when it legislated without hearing the various stakeholders with interests, directly or indirectly, in the sector, having the Assembly of the Republic chosen to legislate by decree. But the amendment to the Road Code, attempting to correct abuses, created new problems for motorists and also for law enforcement, given the ambiguities relating to parking and overnight, totally unnecessary to the sector. The restrictions of Article 50. o -A of the current Road Code, by establishing the prohibition of overnight stays and parking of motorhomes, or similar, outside the places expressly authorized for this purpose, caused a widespread cry in the country and abroad, with harmful effects on the tourism of travelling motorhomes with a view to Portugal. This amendment sets out an unfair and destabilizing precedent for the legal framework for self-caravanism, which needs to clarify, in order to protect an expanding tourism segment, which has as particularity not to be strictly seasonal, also representing an excellent way to encourage national tourism and to support the local economy, especially that of the interior. Despite the Government's intentions, we must recognize that at the moment the country is not yet equipped with adequate infrastructure to receive the motorhomes with the technical requirements necessary for the proper management of the territory and some worthy comfort and safety of the motorhome drivers. If the PSD were government, the chosen path would be another: first, it would strengthen the network of motorhome support infrastructures, started in 2018, with financing tourism in Portugal and under the Valuarisation Programme ; second, ensuring the satisfaction of the above needs, would legislate in order to clarify Articles 48. o is 50. o -A, as we propose in our bill. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as some will say, the PSD is not government. It's true! But the Government and Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party are still in time to correct, in the field of expertise, with the necessary clarification, the diploma in question. The PSD is available to collaborate with the various parliamentary groups in this area, for the sake of Portugal, with a sense of commitment and reasonableness. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u11	In addition to these legislative initiatives, Petition No. 197 / XIV / 2 is also under discussion. a ( Sandra Santos et al.). I am therefore informed that Mrs. Sandra Santos, Mr. Toni Pinto, Mr. Gilberto Alexandre Dias Ferreira de Souto and Mr. Mário Luís Dias Marques are present in the galleries, which I welcome. Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the NAP, I would like to greet the petitioners, to whom I address these words with deep respect. What we are discussing today began by a failure of the government to have not educated for respect for nature and not promoted environmental literature, and there was a clear failure to protect natural parks, for which it even makes planning plans, but then does not guarantee its implementation. Unfortunately, we are not surprised, because this is the same government that has letters on flood zones, but gives positive opinions for works in those areas, until there is a need for social challenge to change position. This Ministry of the Environment, which opts to maintain a small number of vigilantes of a nature in the asset and does not value them, in the face of the flagrant disinvestment in human resources for environmental protection, has just had to resort to these prohibitions. In Portugal, we have 200 nature watchers. If we had at least the equivalent of Spain, by proportion to the territory, we would have to multiply this number by six. In addition to this chronic problem of environmental deprotection, the Government has not yet wanted to define a strategy for responsible and sustainable self-caravanism in Portugal, nor does it worry about the fact that our country is being advertised in other countries as encouraging self-caravanism in natural parks, advertising in which Portugal is enjoyed, in view of its disorganization in this matter, and, indeed, even explain how it is easy to circumvent the law on the environment. By seeking to print some control over this reality, this rule appears, then, in the Road Code concerning motorists. I would like to say that the NAP deeply respects all the motorists who, in clear respect for nature, leave the place as or better than they have found it, and respect all those who, from the observation of nature, learn and teach to respect it. But unfortunately, we cannot say that everyone is like that. This government decision is a kind of cautious providence, where they all pay for those who do evil, destroy and impact. The time since this ban was in force should have served for the Government to regulate this activity in a balanced way, ensuring the use of contact with nature and the need to protect from environmental impacts of irresponsible behaviour. We need to find a way to reconcile these interests, and the NAP is available for a well-regulated path, which leads to the amendment of this article which is claimed here. But without taking this path, it is from an environmental point of view wrong and indicates a concern about what has happened on our coast, in donor complexes or even in natural parks. For those who want to camp and have contact with nature, there are not yet enough structures in quantity and quality. This should be the way of strategic investment in responsible tourism in Portugal. This political path is missing, and the NAP is obviously available to do so, but that is not the way the projects of BE, PCP and ENP bring us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u13	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u14	We welcome the changes that the PSD has printed to its project and hope that, in the field of expertise, it can be possible to work in the sense that we all want to achieve.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u15	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Jamila Madeira of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by complimenting the petitioners. Today's debate is about banning the overnight stay of motorhomes outside the authorized sites. This ban on overnight stays, outside authorised places, exists in Portugal, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Denmark, Scotland, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Lithuania, Poland, the United Kingdom, Romania, Spain, where regional bans exist near the beaches and leisure areas, are used to refer to it once the ban in Spain has been cited as not being a reality. At the beginning of 2021, Portugal aligned its legislation with European best practices. In recent years, motorcar tourism has grown exponentially, affirming itself as an important segment of national and international tourism. There are more than 2 million motor caravans, with an annual growth of about 10 % per year in the last decade. Portugal is indeed a desirable destination for these tourists, which is something we want to underline and praise. Some 2 million sleepers are already estimated, within the context that it is possible to estimate, and 80 % are foreigners. There are also national citizens, that is true, who use this practice for tourist purposes. It should be stressed that despite the pandemic, the European leisure vehicle industry and market stabilized by 2020. Or rather, since the beginning of 2020, the industry has signalled a total of more than 150 000 motorhome records in a year that was expected to break. In total, an increase of 61, 4 % was reported according to July figures compared to 2019. We still do not have the numbers for the whole year 2020, but all markets have risen at least 20 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u17	Last year?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u18	Yes, in 2020. The importance of self-caravanism for the development of tourism must be accompanied by instruments supporting the management authorities of natural parks and coastal areas, but must be practised in accordance with good European practices and in a regular manner. Thus, the Government also promoted the Programme of Action for Responsible Self-Caravanism, which aims, in the first line, to create a national network of service areas for motor caravans, capable of responding to the growing demand for this modality. What is important to point out is that the latest amendment to the Road Code, which has added a new Article 50. o -A introduced this overnight ban specifically to motorhomes that are outside the premises for this purpose. This ban, which is extremely relevant and, as you can see, implemented throughout Europe, complied with and monitored, will contribute to substantially reducing what we can now call the « scourge of wild self-caravanism ». [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] It is this law that we have to implement, because we have a law in force and this article only aims to give it body: it is enough to see the communications of the security forces, GNR and PSP, which say that without this introduction into the Road Code, the law in force as regards the sorting and regulation of motor vehicles, in fact, cannot be implemented — I am not saying that it is the very security forces. Let me say that the reality lived in the Algarve, a region that concentrates more than half of the sleeping in motorhomes in Portugal, allows me to point out that it is not entirely true that there has been an attack or a decrease, with harmful effects, in the practice of travelling autocaravanism through this article. What we can say is that, even in a pandemic context, caravanism quantities have been much less penalized than any type of accommodation tourism that can be signalled at the level of national tourism. With less than six months in force and a long period of confinement due to the state of emergency, the authorities have already reported 127 offences, of which 102 in the Algarve region, 9 in Setúbal and 10 in Beja. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the encouragement and promotion of self-caravanism cannot be done with wild self-caravanism. The problem in the Algarve, which is too obvious in these infringements and which will tend to extend to other regions, in particular to all the extensive coastline that, thanks to our geography, we have in Portugal, is not the situation of informality of one or two motorhomes, but is the night of hundreds of caravans, for consecutive months, without the authorities being able to enforce the law. So, yes, I miss the PSD position until yesterday. I miss the PSD position because it was with one of the most prominent PSD figures in front of the region of the Algarve ( Co-ordination and Regional Development Commission ) that the network of motor caravans in the region became a reality. And, therefore, I am shocked to see them here, in the right line, because, as in the 1980s, with the wild campism, as in the 1990s, with the wild naturism, it was with regulation that the essence of these activities was preserved.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u19	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u20	Therefore, we believe that only with regulation will we find the right path to self-caravanism, and that good path will certainly pass through compliance with the rules and laws. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u21	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the petitioners on their petition and, secondly, to try to focus a little on the debate on this matter. This is not a debate between those who are in favour of self-caravanism and those who are against, nor among dangerous savages who want to do self-caravanism in any way and radicals who want self-caravanism to have such rules as are almost prohibitive. Therefore, we must face this reality with some responsibility, realizing that this is a perfectly legitimate form of tourism, with its own search, which has conditions for its practice in Portugal which, perhaps, does not exist in many other countries. As such, it is also natural that reality in Portugal is different from other countries, because the conditions for this type of tourism to be developed are also more favourable. What is normal, and this is the situation, is to realize the relevance of practice, value it and frame it normatively, so that is what we should discuss. A legislative amendment to protect goods such as environmental balance, protected areas, environmental goods is, and of course, necessary, i.e. regulation of some occupation of territory by self-caravanism when this is often an imbalance, to the detriment of other people who also have the legitimacy to practice other types of tourism and who have difficulty in doing so normally. What is meant by legislation is not to complicate it, but to simplify it. It is true that the amendment made by the Government of the Socialist Party under Article 50. o -A of the Road Code could have all this, but it happens that it doesn't. It is therefore normal that an amendment should be discussed so that we can better achieve the balance I spoke about earlier. Honestly, from our point of view, if the current law does not promote it, perhaps, the bills we are discussing also do not help much and thus the ideal is that, in particular, by listening to the entities involved, the motorists, the authorities, the security forces, who have to comply and enforce the laws, we can find a more balanced solution. That makes sense, and that will be the contribution we will make. As I said at the outset, this is not a discussion between motorists and those who do not like autocaravanism, nor among the dangerous savages, as some would call them, who think that in autocaravanism it is all worth and the radicals who want to ban it. If we achieve a moderate solution, I think we will be protecting those who use this type of tourism, protecting all tourism in national terms and also doing something essential, which is not creating a law that complicates people's lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u23	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u24	Mr President, in my remaining time, I believe it is important that we focus on the debate where it should be. Mrs Jamila Madeira, in fact, we are not talking about any change in the current protection of the coastal shoreline, and I am asking the question of saying in my speech. That is not the debate we are currently discussing, without prejudice, of course, that we can always deepen the debate and the legislation on the protection of coastal shores. There is nothing against this, but that is not the debate we are doing. What we are discussing is the following: I can sleep in a car parked out of Lisbon, but I can't sleep inside a motorhome, which was made for people to sleep, parked in the same place. This has no justification and during the debate there was no one who could give a justification for it. In fact, I remember that, in a regiment hearing with the Ministry of Internal Administration, we put this question to the Government, which also did not know how to answer or justify — nor in writing, when we asked in writing — why this amendment is being amended. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to say that we are committed to finding the best and most balanced solution as quickly as possible, because, as I said, we have the summer to begin, which is the time when people most use this means of transport and tourism.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u25	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u26	I will finish, Mr. President. We are talking about a very simple clarification of concepts. It was a confusion created unnecessarily by the government and I believe that it is in this work that we must all be focused on, without mixing discussions that are not held here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u27	With no further inscriptions, we are now closing the debate with Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In several interventions, the abuses that often occur on the part of some motorhome users have been mentioned. I'm asking the ladies. Members, particularly the Socialist Party, if there was anything that prevented the competent authorities from doing their work, regulating and monitoring the use of motor vehicles, particularly in those more sensitive areas where the problem occurs, in the coastal areas of Alentejo and Algarve. What prevented the authorities from regulating such use?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u30	Mrs Deputy spoke of the scourge of wild self-caravanism, placing in the same bag thousands of users who have nothing to be placed before this wild-use sawmill. And to chase the wild, VV. Ex.as make a general and absolute ban that prevents a motorhome user from going to a restaurant, staying at the door of the restaurant and continuing travel the next day.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u32	Why? Because in some regions of the country, Mrs Depute finds the inability of the government and local authorities, in particular APA, ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature et des Forests) and the security forces to intervene in the application of the concrete rules for that reality. PS deputy Jamila Madeira displayed a document. I would like to invite the honourable Member to meet — in fact, perhaps you know it! — the specific infrastructure for caravanism, which can be found on a route in Spain, even next to here, 50 m from the beach, with support facilities, with parking conditions. Why? Because the ordination of the territory thus indicated it and allowed it. These are political options, Your Honor! But the truth is that today, what exists is the lack of nature's vigilantes to monitor situations of abuse that have already occurred. Look, in the last State budgets, even on the proposal of the Greens Ecological Party, the nature vigilante contracts were approved. And I ask: where are they? With regard to the regulations which the authorities themselves can make in the coastal areas, are these regulations adopted? Are they in force? Are they being monitored? Why, then, do you want to prevent a person from spending the night in a vehicle at any point in the country? If it's a Renault Clio, you can do it! Don't you think this is ridiculous? Parking is allowed as long as no one's in there! Does the Road Code provide that parking for a car is dependent on having or not having occupants? Is that what you're defending with nails and teeth? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u33	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u34	I will finish, Mr. President. This legislative process should not be a cosmetic operation. The PSD retreat is worrying and this central block of the ban is something that concerns us. [[Protests by PSD Member Afonso Oliveira.]] We must lead the debate to the specialty in order to deepen these matters. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u35	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u36	Mrs Jamila Madeira, for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u37	Mr President, it is to make a point of order to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u38	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u39	I would like to ask the Bureau to have a document circulated to the Members. Members, in particular Mr Bruno Dias, but also the other Members. Members, in which the authorities of the GNR Road Traffic and Safety Division explain precisely to the motorists that if the legislation in force is not incorporated into the Traffic Signalling Regulation it is illegal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u40	We'll read it later!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u41	It is therefore the security authority itself that says that the planning and planning instruments of the territory are not sufficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u42	The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen will have an opportunity to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u43	It is only to clarify and demystify the words of the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u44	Madam Member, what you just did was not a point of order to the Bureau, but an appeal to the Bureau. The document will therefore be distributed to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Having concluded this first item on the agenda, we are now moving to the second item, which is part of the debate on draft resolution No 870 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Val Pharmacia - Extension of support for drug expenditure for needy elderly persons and, in general, Bill No. 35 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensure free access to the medicine to users over 65 years of age, chronic patients and families with economic deficiency. For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The 2021 Ageing Report, which projects economic and budgetary impacts in the countries of the European Union, accounts for a global scenario of progressive ageing of the population, with complex implications for future public policy choices. Not being entirely new, it seems to us that the reflection and action that these signs should give us has fallen far short of its gravity. In addition to the impact on pension systems, it will be the health expenses that will grow the most and become heavier for taxpayers and patients. The relationship between social systems, social security and health will have to be rethinked and strengthened, because their recipients will increasingly need integrated responses rather than static windows. In Portugal, the number of elderly people exceeded the number of young people for the first time in 2000. The ageing rate in 2000 was 99 %; in 2010 it was 122 %; and in 2019 it was 161 %. Many of these elderly people need greater protection in terms of scope and simplification in access to social and health responses. One of the cases where such protection must be strengthened concerns access to medicines by those over 65 years of age in a disadvantaged economic situation. in this area, the additional health benefit is of the few existing support. Assigned by the Ministry of Social Security to beneficiaries of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, it gives 50 % of the expenditure on shared medicines, without a maximum limit. Conjugates the fact that about 10 % of Portuguese people do not buy prescribed medicines due to lack of money and that about 17 % of the elderly live below the poverty line, it is easy to see the consequence: many elderly people do not have the prescriptions prescribed by their doctor or do not fully comply with the recommended therapy because they do not have the money to postpone pharmacy. Often, it is pharmacists, proximity intermediaries, who end up lending the money until reimbursement arrives, financing the elderly and replacing the state without any obligation. For many of our elderly people, the choice is between buying food and buying medicines, between having what to eat and having the medicines they need. For the CDS, this is an unacceptable choice in a democratic and evolved society.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u47	So we make three recommendations. First, increase the number of elderly people who have the right to support the purchase of medicines, not restricting the universe covered by the solidarity complement for the elderly. Second, increase the State's participation to 100 %, in the case of elderly persons whose monthly income, after payment of drug expenditure, is less than €351 and 50 %, in the case of monthly income less than €655. Making this support a prior support, not by way of reimbursement, is the third recommendation, because this is one of the greatest obstacles to the current use and effectiveness of the additional health benefit. In the State budget for 2021, the CDS presented this proposal, which was essentially cast with the votes against the Socialist Party. We maintain that this is a proposal to establish social justice, to protect the most vulnerable, and therefore we insist once again, bringing it to vote in this plenary. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u48	To present the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are faced with a reality which is impossible today not to discuss and which needs to be answered. There is a set of subject users, at greater risk and more prone, that they may not be able to purchase the medicines they need. These users are, in particular, those over 65 years of age, chronic users and also the most deprived families. It is in this sense that the CFP brings a bill that seeks to respond to this problem because, in fact, people over 65 years of age and chronic patients have an incidence of increased comorbidities and the presence of diseases. This problem leads to increased costs and costs in access mainly to medicines and treatments. On the other hand, as regards these users over 65 years of age, we all know that the vast majority of workers, at the time they retire, lose a significant part of their income, when compared to pension or reform with what was their income or salary when they were in active life, which results from the right-wing policies that do not favor the increase in wages, which, yes, would correspond to just and dignified reforms. What most of our population confronts, at the time of their reform, is the loss of economic capacity, thus increasing the costs, in this case, with medication. There is a loss of income and this is reflected in access to treatment with the disease, in compliance with the therapeutic plan and in improvements in terms of its prognosis. It is in this sense that the PCP has defended the free drug dispensation in the health units of the SNS (National Health Service ) and in community pharmacies to chronic patients, needy families and users over 65 years of age. But we have also defended the increase in the availability of generic medicines, which is essential so that we can therefore respond in terms of what is the cost that the State has with the purchase of medicines. It is important to respond to what the CFP has fought, which is the creation of the National Laboratory of Medicine, as a structural element for the State to be sovereign in the production of medicines and thus also reduce the costs with medication. We also advocate the creation of a model for the participation of medicines that leads to reduced user costs. And one very important thing, sirs. Members, it is the revision of the National Form for Medicinal Products ( FNM ), a structural element of the medicine to be made available in Portugal. That is why the PCP brings here today a bill, which above all seeks to ensure access to the medicine for all chronic patients, for families with a financial shortage and for users over 65 years old, access that should be made through free dispensation in the SNS health units and in the community pharmacy. For this to be achieved, the method of sharing we defend is setting at 100 % the participation of the State in relation to the prescription of the generic medicine with the lowest price on the market. These measures, Mr. Members, to be implemented, will allow access without economic conditionalism, which today depart many Portuguese from the treatments prescribed for them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u50	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our elderly are among the most vulnerable fringes of the Portuguese population. Many without opportunity or ability to work, many with chronic diseases, many with poor pensions, unable to survive without the help of the family. And many with a pension park that doesn't even reach the medication. But today's elderly people are the ones who built Portugal and our democracy. So when we fail the elderly, not only do we fail them, we fail ourselves and the society to which we belong. in this sense, proximity health care plays a fundamental role, contributing to the stabilization of the clinical situation and to avoid acute complications and hospitalizations requiring specific or even intensive care. On the other hand, the stabilization of chronic diseases depends on proper medication. It is of no use to provide nearby health care if people then do not have the conditions to pay for the medicines they need. Not to be overlooked is that Portugal has the lowest participation rates in the European Union. Therefore, the Liberal Initiative will follow the proposal of the CDS of the “vale pharmacia”, reserving, for the specialty, the refinement of important aspects, such as the responsibility for the reference of the elderly for the purposes of this support or the periodicity of the verification of compliance with the criteria.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u52	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The right to health is a right of all people living in Portugal. But it's too formal for a lot of people. In fact, for many people it is a right dramatically conditioned by the available income or, otherwise, the lack of income prevents many people from accessing the necessary care and therapy, especially medicines. in a country where low wages and low pensions continue to prevail, health expenses are often too unbearablely severe and access to prescribed medicines is often too unsufficiently difficult. Unfortunately, there are not few cases of those who wait for the day to receive the salary or pension to go to the pharmacy. Nor are there few times when, even in those days, the medical prescription is not entirely aviated by lack of money. Portugal is a country with more burden of disease from 60 years of age and is a country where health expenses called "out-of-pocket", i.e. health expenses borne by its own users and family members, are high. We are a country where chronic diseases are very prevalent and the prescription of drugs for controlling these diseases is important, but at the same time, where the socio-economic situation of many aggregates prevents the acquisition of all prescribed medications. Data from Infarmed also show that although a rise of 2, 4 % has been recorded in the participation of medicinal products in 2020, Portuguese purchased less than 4 million drug packages, which seems to indicate clearly greater difficulty in effective access. Regarding access to medicinal products at specific times of the month, days 8 and 22 of each month have been of peak importance in the purchase of medicinal products, at least since 2019, revealing that Portuguese wait for days to receive the salary or pension to be able to access the medicines prescribed to them. Medicines for chronic diseases, such as diabetes, hypertension or antidepressants, are the most sought after, and are also coincidentally prescribed medicines. This situation is being intensified and aggravated by the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, extending the difficulty of access to medicines to increasingly age groups and to certain social conditions. The economic and social crisis, associated with an increase in disease that has been out of control or has been diagnosed late, makes even more urgent a special regime to ensure that all people have access to the medicines they need. Expanding the participation of medicines to all people in a situation of economic insufficiency is not only a fair measure, but also a measure of response to the social emergency that has been brought down on our country. in this sense, we will follow the two initiatives under discussion. The CDS initiative is similar, if not the same, to one that has already been presented in the framework of the State budget for 2021 and which has voted in favour of the Left Block, and the proposal of the CFP will also deserve that favourable vote. However, it seems to us that the proposal on the increase in drug participation can go even further. The CDS restricts its proposal to the most deprived elderly. The PCP presents a change to the law covering over 65 years, deprived families and chronic patients, which may benefit from 100 % participation in the cheapest generic medicine. The Left Block entered, yesterday, a bill to contribute to this discussion. We propose that those with an income of less than 14 minimum wages per year have an increase in the various levels of participation and a total participation in the case of generic drugs cheaper than the homogeneous group. We will vote in favour of all the proposals, hoping that, in the field of expertise, a solution can be found to improve access to medicines. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u54	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is clear that, with increased average life expectancy, new challenges arise in protecting the health of populations and there is a need for better political responses to these problems, particularly in weaker age groups, as we are discussing today, that is, older people. from the NAP, we have already said this: it is necessary to invest in health in a cross-sectional way, from birth to older ages, but we reiterate that prevention continues to be the best strategy, in medium and long-term perspectives, either through the adoption of better habits and behaviors, either in effective protection of health determinants. We know that many diseases are preventable and comply with us, as political representatives, to demand that all measures of protection and protection of human health be implemented and complied with, either in the working contexts or in the environmental policies and the consequences that obviously have in our health, if we do not intervene in a timely manner. The government, of course, has the responsibility to protect the weakest, and the elderly are a group that demands the attention of all of us and greater care. It is not new that the worst socio-economic conditions are associated with worse health conditions. Therefore, working to improve people's living conditions is also preventing diseases, in the present and in the future. But those who, for socio-economic reasons, do not have access to medicines or treatments today can have these answers guaranteed, and public policies must ensure that health reaches everyone. We remember that in our country, families spend about 730 million euros annually on medicines, which leads to another reflection. Many people, especially elderly, are polymedicated, without an assessment of the combined benefit of this medication and even the harmful effects of the junction of some drugs. We understand and follow the concern brought here by the CDS, since we have already done so in the State Budget. But we believe that policies on these issues should be balanced, which we are also concerned about the polymedication of users today, in fact, recognized as a public health problem. We cannot end this debate without remembering that 10 % of Portuguese cannot buy the prescribed medication due to lack of resources. And no one can ignore the fact that 17% of the elderly live below the poverty line. in this sense, we will follow the proposal that the CDS brings us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u56	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Lima has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the PCP and the CDS have brought us two topics that also make us very aware. In fact, we believe that, with the generosity of your proposals, in general, we would all agree, to evaluate the speech and interventions of the various banks. But it is also important, in terms of understanding what is already in the current legislation, to revisit the general arrangements for participation and, above all, the special arrangements for the participation of medicines. In the general scheme of participation, the participation of the State shall be carried out through steps ranging from step to step D, from 90 % to 15 % in general. Then it is important to revisit the special participation, because much of what has been said and which is contained in the proposals under discussion is already being drawn up in these schemes, which we all know. The special scheme of participation shall apply to pensioners whose annual income is equal to or less than 14 times the guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration. Or, then, 14 times the value of the indexer of the existing social support(IAS) when it exceeds that amount. Therefore, these users, in addition to an increase in participation in the various stages, also benefit from a participation of the State in the price of the 95 % drug for all drug scales whose sales prices to the public are equal to or below the fifth lowest price — I am referring to the homogeneous group of generics in the marketing and sharing of generics. In addition, we must also point out that there is the solidarity supplement for the elderly, already mentioned above, where support is provided for the elderly with low resources, including the reimbursement of medicines not shared by 50 %. Currently, it is estimated that the Portuguese population aged over 65 is about a quarter of the resident population. In 2020, this age group accounted for 59 % of the total packages delivered with participations. Pensioners were responsible for 30 % of the total packages delivered on the SNS market. This means that about half of the consumption of the elderly population is carried out by the users who benefit from the pensioners' special participation scheme. So there is a lot of work done here and a lot of support for the elderly and pensioners, in this special scheme of drug participation. We understand your proposals, we follow some of them, but we cannot forget what is already being done in the special regime. By analyzing only the pensioner population, with the data we have, the average participation rate for pensioners is 76 %, not considering the reimbursement of 50 % of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, which still adds. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have here a general system of participation which is not perfect, which is not the best of all, but which is possible. We would all like to give everything to everyone, but unfortunately it is not possible. We also understand that it is a significant counterpart to help the most vulnerable people, but we also have an obligation to draw attention and bring some elements of reflection: these proposed measures can aim at free drug dispensation and there may be an incentive for excessive acquisition, which may even lead to waste. On the other hand — and this is a warning that we are leaving, not that it cannot be reflected on the impact of your measures, it is important to reflect — we would also like to stress that it can also encourage the abuse of the 100% sharing mechanism, and, for example, the prescription for other people, wrongly, and may also be a potential reason for fraud. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what I am pleased to say at the end of my speech is that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that the existing measures and legislation most of them address the problems under discussion here. I also want to highlight other support that is given, either at the level of local authorities or at the level of social action, which work on the network and do a remarkable job, as well as the work of non-governmental organizations. I also want to make it clear that we are next to these populations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u58	Mrs. Deputy, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u59	... and that there are many mechanisms with which we can fill and fight these needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u60	Mr Alberto Machado, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD is sensitive to the subject under discussion today. Mrs. Joana Lima, the sharing regime she spoke about here does not solve the problem of the most disadvantaged Portuguese. We are well aware of the reality of many thousands of anonymous Portuguese people, particularly the elderly, who have difficulty in buying medicines prescribed for them. In 2019, several studies reported that one in 10 Portuguese stopped buying medicines prescribed by the doctor due to lack of money. But this problem has been worsening in this time of crisis that the country is going through. Proposals that aim at the full participation of medicines, for more in undelimited universes and contexts, should be considered with a sense of responsibility. We consider it necessary to look at this problem of access to medicines by the most disadvantaged populations with the necessary balance that this type of measure has about public expenditure, which increasingly faces serious risks of unsustainability. It is therefore up to us to find the legislative harmony for a fair State intervention, the balance of public accounts and the necessary solidarity for the most flagrant cases of structural poverty. We need the responsibility of the draft resolution of the CDS, which we will vote in favour, although with strengthening the award criteria and the necessary clarification of the methodology to be implemented, and we cannot fall into the easy demagogy of the PCP bill, against which we will vote, without criteria and without cost assessment, if everything is promised to everyone. Everything for everyone is the old song from the left, in which less and less people are falling. The Portuguese already realized that if it were all for everyone, there was nothing left for anyone. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u62	A beautiful illusion, almost idyllic, but without support. A vigarice, therefore. [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u63	Moreover, in this regard, who does not remember those famous outdoors that the Socialist Party used in the 2009 legislative campaign, in which it propagated that the Government of José Socrates had given “free generics to the elderly with lower incomes”? Don't you remember? Oh, my God! Here he is... [[PSD applause.]] It was on 18 March 2009, shortly before the legislative elections, that Prime Minister José Socrates promised in this House the strengthening of the State's participation in the price of generic medicines for pensioners with pensions below the minimum wage. At the time, many of the gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, some still present here, beat palms with furry. [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] The truth is that the Socialist Party even approved this gratuity through Decree-Law No 129 of May 2009. At the time, piously, the PS stated that "it was a new and well-deserved support from the social state to the elderly with lower possession". The problem, sirs. Members, it is true that, having passed the legislative elections by the Socialist Party, the PS Government immediately revoked that diploma, arguing that the costs of this gratuity were excessive. Why do I remember this little edifying episode of Socrates governance?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u64	How dishonest!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u65	Only with respect to our elderly, who do not deserve to be used in the political struggle, giving them what cannot be guaranteed! The PSD is, and will always be, a responsible party, so we do not promise everything to everyone. [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] Take it easy, Mrs. Deputy! Don't be nervous. We know the difficulties that millions of Portuguese people face, we know that the spending of families on health is increasing, but we also do not ignore the total failure of government policy on generic medicines, whose market share, in units, is stagnated almost since the Socialist Party returned to government for six years. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe that it is not with populist measures that solve the problems of Portuguese and, above all, we do not abdicate to defend the sustainability of the health system, under the penalty of collapse. The democratic social matrix fully welcomes the need to introduce more social justice with regard to access to medicines. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u66	The humanist aspect of the PSD makes us appreciate principles such as justice and solidarity and the personalist aspect makes us look at social imbalances with the will to seek, at every moment, to overcome inequalities and social injustices. Someone, because he's poor, can't stop accessing something as fundamental and precious as a medicine. The PSD is present in this debate. Is that a PS? Will you be reiterating the options of this government, such as those that have recently been taken in the TAP or in the New Bank, and the options that are conditional on public finances, the economy, business support and State social support? Of course! Not us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u67	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Dias. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Machado, allow me to refer to your words, saying that the honourable Member was very sensitive, recognizing that there are, in fact, Portuguese who do not have economic conditions to access the purchase of medication, but then very clearly defends what separates us here. You defend the user-payer principle: whoever has money, buys health; who has no money, copes with the disease if he can. This is what you defend, while we defend that access to health must be independent of economic capacity. It is not our wallet that defines whether or not we have the right to access to health, it is a right that the State must guarantee and ensure, and that is what you do not have. So we bring here an absolutely different bill. And how many of us, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Alberto Machado, do you know users who go to the pharmacy and ask the pharmacist to tell them what they can stop buying because they need to buy food too? How many of us know people who don't go to medical appointments just because they know that when they come from there they bring a recipe and they won't be able to buy the drugs? Oh, my God! And here we turn our backs on this? Oh, my God! That's what you're defending! We therefore argue that the most vulnerable users over 65 years of age should be cared for with chronic diseases, which do not have the same availability for work as other people because they have chronic diseases, as well as care for deprived families. In conclusion, allow me to address Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u69	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u70	Madam Member, the State must have the possibility to acquire medication at fairer prices, not taking into account the interests of the pharmaceutical industry. That's our concern. The State must have other conditions to purchase medicines. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u71	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor for the closing of this debate. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to thank all the contributions given and say that from the point of view of the CDS we want the project to go down to the specialty, which we will soon know, where we will have all the opening to fine-tune its implementation and what is recommended. In fact, what matters to us is to ensure that the elderly in need—and it is important to make this distinction, to which I will already mention—are actually able to buy the medicines prescribed to them without having to wait for reimbursement, which seems to us a great object in the current measures. Mrs Joana Lima, the question is not the average rate of 76% of participation for all elderly people, it is to be 100 % for those who need, who are effectively disadvantaged,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u73	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u74	... and this makes a big difference in the way we understand that money should be distributed and allocated for this purpose. Mr João Dias, in fact, there is a big distinction between the CDS proposal and that of the CFP. We disagree with the principle of the CFP's proposal because it is not the age that determines the condition of poverty, nor is it the health condition that determines the condition of poverty, and universalist measures, as proposed by the honourable Member, end up being socially unfair and unnecessarily costly for taxpayers, and in some way end up feeding the so-called 'bouches' of the pharmaceutical industry with which you are so concerned. The PCP bill, if it were approved in these terms, exactly—and without wanting to fulaniize, but just to illustrate— would allow people to complain that you have already taken everything from us, as for example, Dr. Ricardo Salgado, to take medicines for free, because of this universalist policy that Mr. [[Protests by PCP MP João Dias and the CDS-PP Member's counterprotests João Piinho de Almeida.]] So, yes, it is necessary to impose a condition of resources so that we can allocate them to those who really need to aviate in the pharmacy the prescribed recipes. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u75	We are now entering into point 3 of the agenda, which concerns the joint debate, in general, of Bills Nos 709 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Amend the environmental impact assessment scheme applicable to the planting of non-autochthonous species under intensive water and establish a prior authorisation scheme applicable to new plantations, for the purpose of amending Decree-Law No 151 - B / 2013 of 31 October and Decree-Law No 73 / 2009 of 31 March, 801 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — The sixth amendment to the legal regime for environmental impact assessment, approved by Decree-Law No 151 - B / 2013 of 31 October 821 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Bans the use of aircraft for air spraying and restricts the use of jet spray equipment carried in sensitive areas, housing clusters and public roads ( Fourth amendment to Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April ), 845 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Environmental Impact Assessment Scheme ( AIncA ) of intensive and superintensive agricultural projects, related industrial activities and non-agricultural uses of soils RAN, 846 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Amendment to the legal regime of environmental impact assessment ( Sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 151 - B / 2013 of 31 October ), 848 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Change the legal regime of the environmental impact assessment and 850 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Regulates the installation of intensive crops and obliges environmental impact assessments and the Resolution Project No 185 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — By optimising the process of preventing and punishing environmental infringements. To present the legislative initiatives of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this rich and enriching experience of representing voters, their values and globalization, in the last debate in plenary in which I have the privilege to participate, we bring the debate to two legislative initiatives that aim to respond to the voracity of the release of natural resources in progress in our country. In the Algarve, the drought that has devastated this region for years forces populations of some municipalities to rely on autotanks to have drinking water, since the rain that has fallen has not been enough to restore underground reserves. Scientists tell us unequivocally that one of the impacts of climate change in southern Portugal will be the desertification of the territory and that, as far as agricultural production is concerned, the country should adapt, with crops of drought or less dependent on large quantities of water. It is logical: if there is dry, if there is little water and they tell us that there will be even less, the only responsible attitude is to save this essential good and use it carefully and efficiently. But what is happening is precisely the opposite. We have witnessed the proliferation of plantations in intensive water systems, which are incompatible with the growing water shortage. The cluster of mismanagement and destruction of natural resources and total impunity is to be found that in the Algarve and Alentejo, in the third decade of the 21st century, intensive plantations are installed whose supply of the water system allows the collection of a total volume of annual water that is not sufficient to cover the needs of the plantations. This is the portrait of Portugal, as « republic of the avocados » : the CAP ( Confederation of Agricultureers of Portugal ) sends, the Minister of Agriculture obeys, the Minister of the Environment sipies into the air, the Minister of Finance paid to pollute. A country without rules, handed over to the CAP, to which only profit is concerned, making use of water below real costs and still enjoying a high level of public funding for investment. What the NAP proposes with this project is simple: that it is determined that any new farm of intensive irrigation is dependent on prior demonstration of the environmental sustainability of the holding and that new holdings with the intensive water resource are subject to prior authorisation by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture. In addition to this initiative, we are bringing up a proposal to amend the legal regime for environmental impact assessment. of the total projects subject to environmental impact assessment ( AIA ), between 2008 and 2018, only 5 % had an unfavourable environmental impact declaration with the remaining 95 % obtained a favorable environmental impact declaration ( environmental impact declaration ) conditioned. We could conclude that we only have excellent projects, with meaningless environmental impacts, but not. What is found is that the economic and financial criteria of the projects analyzed always overlap with the common interest in environmental preservation. Portugal is 27. the country with more threatened species, which puts us in 15 % of countries with more species at risk of extinction. In view of the size of our territory, we are facing incredible performance for the worst reasons. We therefore consider that the environmental impact assessment scheme should be revised and we present here the following proposals: the elimination of any economic and financial weighting in the environmental impact assessment process — after all, the assessment is environmental and non-economic! — the elimination of the possibility of compensation for environmental damage as a counterpart for the approval of a project, because the destruction of ecosystems cannot in any way be compensated or paid in financial terms. We also propose the obligation to subject the AIA to all the projects provided for in Annex II to the scheme which are located in sensitive areas, including agricultural, forestry, aquaculture, extractive, chemical or textile projects. We cannot continue to accept that these types of projects are installed in sensitive areas without environmental impact assessment. We recall that 82 % of the projects are precisely framed in this Annex II of the AIA regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u77	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u78	Finally, we also propose the elimination of the tacit deviation in environmental impact assessment processes and the elimination of the possibility of extending the environmental impact declaration. Today we have an opportunity to show that our life, balance and well-being cannot be compensated financially and that we cannot destroy ecosystems in the name of an economic model based on unlimited economic growth on a finished planet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u79	I now give the floor to Mr Ricardo Vicente of the Left Block for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The Left Block today brings the debate and the vote in this Parliament to two bills. The first aims at banning air sprays that still occur in Portugal under an exception regime and which are completely unnecessary, because they do not have precision and because they affect essential water resources and goods that do not need to be sprayed. We also propose that spraying with high-volume turbines be prohibited with housing at a distance of 250 m. We know that there are alternatives to these two spray techniques. We know that, today, agriculture, which is required with greater precision and with greater respect for the environment, has alternatives to these means and therefore we propose its prohibition. Air application is an exception to which some countries, such as Portugal, resort, even though it is already banned in national territory. However, there are dozens of products authorised for this purpose which remain in force and which must be completed. thus, we were able to protect populations, housing, water lines and essential resources. Today, from north to south, we all know that spraying directly affects people who travel on the street or who spread the clothes on the banners that have at the door of the house. In the second draft law we present a national charter of ordination for agricultural crops, to ensure the protection of the means and the ordination of the territory, to establish maximum areas in continuity and maximum areas in their entirety, by each culture, thus combating monocultures. We intend to ensure protection buffer areas between intensive production areas and sensitive areas, such as water lines, shelters and protected areas, and also ensure 5 to 15 % of agricultural areas dedicated to ecological infrastructure, because we know that these infrastructures are the way to reduce a substantial part of the pesticides that are now consumed and abused. Without ecological infrastructure there is no integrated production or protection that are efficient, so it is necessary to move from bricks to practice and this project proposes it itself. in this letter, we propose to ensure minimum soil protection measures that oblige the prevention of erosion and oppose the installation of crops in the greatest slopes, as happens in many olives and superintensive peanuts that are breaking down our soils. We want to force landscape plans in all public regadios to achieve the protection of heritage, guarantee minimum measures to protect soil and biodiversity for all cultures in it, ban the installation of new greenhouses, olive trees and peanuts until these landscape plans are published. This is for us to have criteria in the installation of intensive and superintensive crops and in the management of our resources. We want to make the environmental impact assessment mandatory in areas of permanent crops with more than 50 ha in intensive and superintensive regimes or 20 ha in protected crops, i.e. under stove and under plastic, whether they are new or in continuity. Today we know that we use the trick to circumvent environmental impact assessments using phased investments that, for so many, take landscape dimensions and never have the necessary assessments. We want to ban mechanized night harvests that annually hunt thousands of birds in the olive and intensive peanuts in Portugal. Finally, we want to ensure that the water price is adjusted to real costs in all public regattas. Alqueva was the target of a public investment of EUR 2500 million and currently its water is being consumed abusively by intensive and superintensive crops at 0, 06 € / m3. It is an indirect form of financing a type of agriculture that is harmful to the territory, which reads the public interest and needs a public tool that crosses it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u81	I now give the floor to the ladies. Mr Alma Rivera and Mr João Dias of the PCP, who will share the time of intervention between the two. I only ask you to pay attention to the matter of time. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u82	Mr. President, I'm sorry. I ask the floor to question the table because of the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u83	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u84	Mr President, we cannot, of course, divide the time we have at our disposal. Therefore, Mrs Deputy will use time to intervene, and I will later do mine.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u85	That makes it easy, Mr. Deputies. You then have the floor to Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Environmental impact assessment legislation is a fundamental instrument for safeguarding the environment and populations. It must have a preventive role to be convened before decisions are authorised or taken on projects that may have a significant impact. However, as we all know, it has not been enough to protect the values in the presence, even when populations mobilize and seek to alert to the need for better weighting. There are several aspects to be improved, and that is what the CFP intends to do with the proposed amendment to the legal regime of the environmental impact assessment we are discussing today, namely the extension of submission to a prior assessment, since reality has shown that there are projects that are outside the scope of this procedure but still have great implications for the environment and quality of life. Thus, we include areas of National Ecological Reserve, sensitive areas and densely populated areas, without this consideration depending on the size or understanding of the licensing entity, which also allows us to pay attention to cumulative effects with other existing projects. We propose the valorization and dignity of public participation, since the current regime underestimates the issues raised and seems to be viewed as a proforma, leading to silence and discredit in its own participation. That is why the CFP proposes to include changes that make public participation more effective, with the dynamization of public sessions, but also generating the obligation to respond and weigh each of the opinions and opinions expressed in the public consultation, thus justifying how they were taken, or not, into account. To illustrate the importance of these changes in very concrete situations, it is enough to say that this would make all the difference in cases such as those of the large projects of superintensive cultures, it would make all the difference for the population of the Fortes, for the protection of Serra d’Arga, in relation to Serra de Carnaxide or in the case of mega photovoltaic power plants. This proposal, if approved, and there is no reason why it is not, makes all the difference for the lives of the people, for the preservation of the environment and territories and for giving concrete meaning to democracy itself, which is participatory and not only formal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u87	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Environmental impact assessment is a very relevant environmental policy tool, which aims to assess the impacts of a given project in order to safeguard environmental values. It is a decisive tool for the desirable compatibility between the development of projects and the preservation of environmental resources, ecosystems and natural landscapes. However, the AIA procedure has been discredited not rarely, when environmental impact studies (EIA) omit relevant parameters, when attempting to devalue public consultations or when the decision maker issues a favorable environmental impact declaration, even if conditioned, secondarying very significant effects, exposed by the EIA. These are just a few examples of how it has led to the generalization of an idea embodied in the fact that AIA is more a formality that needs to be fulfilled than a real procedure that supports a political decision to be taken in order to ensure that environmental values of great importance are not destroyed. The fact that projects that have obtained an unfavourable AIA under the AIA procedure are very small generates a legitimate suspicion that, in most cases, decisions are made beforehand, making the AIA a mere pro-formity. This feeling is reinforced by the fact that the great public challenge is often ignored and the arguments put forward by the participants, often based on their own concerns described in the EIAs. We do not give up this instrument, the AIA. However, some aspects of its legal regime need to be cleared, so that it becomes an unequivocally serious process, involved and promoter of political decisions that manage the sustainability of development. Thus, the Greens today present this bill with the following objectives: to strengthen citizens' rights of participation by introducing public consultation in the case of request for a waiver of the AIA procedure and also in the proposed phase of defining the scope of the EIA. Public consultations require greater transparency on the part of the administration, as well as the presentation of arguments and due justifications, which is why it should be extended to more phases of the AIA procedure. We intend to determine the possibility of citizens being able to make requests for clarification to the AIA authority at the public consultation stage, seeking to make it an area of dialogue and that, in the case of the DIA requiring additional or additional studies, there is no definitive decision without such studies being submitted by the proposer. It is not understandable that the DIA considers that there are aspects to study and that it still gives a favorable opinion, even if conditioned. We intend to ensure that the deadlines for the expiry of DIA are not extended. If this expires and there is still intention to implement the project, it should be submitted to the new AIA procedure. Four years is enough time for many things to change and, therefore, to discount the studies already carried out. These are some of the contributions that the Greens point to improving the legal regime of environmental impact assessment, however, are not the first. Since 1996 the ENP has contributed to improving the AIA procedures, to the credibility and dignity of such a relevant environmental policy instrument. There have been improvements, but further work needs to be done. However, as perfect as this legal regime is, it is essential that APA and, above all, the Government effectively respect the objective of an environmental impact assessment for the definition of sustainable public policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u89	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr Luís Leite Ramos of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parliament today is discussing a set of bills that affect environmental problems and, in particular, the environmental impact study regime. The transformations of the territory that are under way, linked to the intensification of agricultural production, and others, pose major sustainability challenges for us. We must guard against the negative impacts of these activities on biodiversity and habitats, protect aquifers, minimize soil erosion, safeguard public health and the concerns of local communities. However, it is not because the legal regime of environmental impact assessment is being reviewed that these problems will be solved. in this there is even a mixture of ingenuity, alongside a great radicalism, in some of the proposals that are presented and today discussed. For the PSD, some of the initiatives are even wrong in principle, which we have repeatedly denounced in this Parliament. They have no technical rigor, they are not based on science or knowledge, they are demagogic and preconceived proposals on what is agricultural activity in Portugal and, as such, they would not solve the environmental problems that we have in front of us, and on the contrary. The NAP project also proposes to end the environmental compensation figure, as if the projects could all have a negative or even null environmental impact, ignoring that, in certain cases, compensation measures bring benefits, for example, at the level of ecosystem regeneration. It would even be counterproductive to eliminate compensation measures: at the end of the day, many promoters would thank the NAP for not having to pay for its implementation. Then there is the 'Dad' of tacit referrals. However, in the explanatory statements, to end with this figure, they do not quantify how many projects are approved in this way. Can you tell us? Do you have those numbers? Is that a real problem? And if there are tacit referrals, who should charge responsibility? Is it not the administration that does not comply and does not apply the law, how should I do? Is it enough to change the law to correct this problem? No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not enough! Then they want to subject to the AIA all types of projects in sensitive areas, with changes to the annexes, as if there were no differences between activities or if, now, the thresholds, which were technically established, were all changed because they were. Many small entrepreneurs or producers would be the most penalized because the rest are already covered by the environmental impact assessment scheme. All bills come to increase bureaucracy. And if the problem is of efficiency and efficiency of the Public Administration, of action of the various governments involved in this area, then the problem is solved not with more bureaucracy but, exactly, deburricating the procedures and, on the part of the various Ministries, assuming the responsibilities. There is another attitude towards agriculture that we do not understand. I'd say it's a tripolar attitude. Sometimes on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, farmers are evil, a walk of predators and, therefore, we have to tighten the law; then, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, they are miserable, crushed by the laws of Brussels, fundamental agents to ensure production and national sovereignty... [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] I understand the feeling of discomfort on the part of the Communist Party, but in fact this is the position that the Communist Party is taking in this debate. As I said on Tuesdays and Thursdays, farmers are unhappy, crushed by the laws of Brussels, fundamental agents to ensure national production and sovereignty, if possible near the consumer centres, for short chains; on Saturdays and Sundays, the countryside, the inheritances, the farms are great places to regenerate, to regain forces. We cannot live with this 'tripolarity' in relation to agriculture. Agriculture is part of an important economy for the future of the country. Going directly to the « trauma» of the avocados, in the Algarve, this is a good example. It is that, in fact, the problem of Fruitineves, which we all know, was not a problem of non-application of the law, was a problem of prevarication, in which systematically the law was not applied. It's a police case, it's not a case of lack of effectiveness of the law. In hearing, we realized that the authorities should have been more zealous of the public interest and of the enforcement of the law, but they were letting the matter go, until they burst into public opinion. Perhaps we should also have a law to force the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment to apply the law and, in this way, we would have ensured that, in fact, the State would do what it was to do. We are facing a complex problem associated with land use compatibility. The PSD proposal is very clear. First, we advocate the need to improve the functioning of the institutions and enforce existing laws. This is a central aspect: the laws exist, the laws must be applied! Secondly, we must act at the level of regional and municipal planning. We agree to review some of these instruments and to include in the regional and municipal planning instruments what is necessary for an additional framework. Thirdly, we must anticipate the challenges of the future and the solutions. From this point of view, new problems will arise and we must be prepared to do so. Finally, at the level of agricultural policy, we must be intelligent in the management of the territory and in the application of the instruments...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u91	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the time spent.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u92	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, at the level of agricultural policy, we must be intelligent in the management of the territory and in the application of the instruments, in order to defend an agriculture that contributes to the development of the country and the maintenance of rural areas, especially within. Finally, Mr President, this set of projects more seems to be in a competition for legislative talents, because they all believe that they can make a more radical change than the others, in terms of environmental impact assessment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u93	Mr Pedro Morais Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Initiatives related to the environmental impact assessment regime deserve, in the view of the CDS, a deep debate, which allows for identifying problems and pointing out solutions, more than inhibitions, prohibitions and barriers, as we have seen in these bills presented here. The current legal regime of environmental impact assessment, as we know, has gaps, not considering, for example, areas classified by international legal instruments for the conservation of nature and biodiversity or biogenetic reserves of the Council of Europe. In the discussion of this legal regime, it is also appropriate to have a debate on the cumulative areas, which are undoubtedly a serious problem. It is important to define what are areas or contiguous spots. It is essential and must be very clear what these areas are in the legal system under discussion, so that they do not doubt what is applied or not and how it is applied. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Environmental impact assessments should, of course, be increasingly considered. However, they need to become an agile instrument, which is not, something that does not serve as a blocking force for new projects and the national economy. We understand that the installation of new activities of protected crops (stufas, tunnels and greenhouses) in areas of some size, such as the reference that is made, for example, to areas greater than 20 ha, or that, being smaller, are integrated into contiguous spots that cumulatively exceed this dimension, must be subject to environmental impact assessment. But it is not reasonable that this becomes compulsory for all areas of crops. Therefore, reference must be made to the properties and not to the farming itself, as well as to define specific conditions, when we are within protected areas and not from agriculture in general. We cannot treat equally what deserves differentiation and specialization. Agriculture within the national agricultural network, within a water perimeter or a hydro-agricultural perimeter, cannot be legislated in a manner similar to a situation in which we have a protected area planning plan, with or without a water perimeter, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. in these situations, different areas should be considered than are envisaged for agriculture in general. But when we talk about agriculture within a natural park, it needs to be more demanding. And if in the planning plan of the park, for example, there are cited paths, limitations and criteria in which environmental impact assessments are required, defining these same conditions, in the view of the CDS, amendments to the legal regime of the AIA should also be considered the exceptions and specific conditions for protected areas. Although these 20 will be considered reasonable under normal circumstances, specific conditions should be laid down when it comes to crops in protected areas, which should indeed be safeguarded. Ladies and gentlemen. It is necessary to ensure that what is established in the AIA legal regime must always overlap with any considerations that exist in the planning plans for protected areas (POAP), thus avoiding conflicts between legal instruments. in these initiatives, it is often mentioned the situation of avocados in the Algarve, but we cannot ignore that there is indeed a great consumption of avocados in Portugal and, if not produced here, it will certainly be imported. But the problem, sir, is not the avocados...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u95	I would like to draw your attention to the time you have already used, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u96	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, the problem in Portugal is not the avocados, the problem is the lack of water retention. It is a problem of lack of strategic vision of the government, which does not invest in infrastructures that allow us to retain water when it rains, does not invest in replacement of public water supply pipelines, with losses of 40 %, does not invest in the use of ETAR (residual water treatment stations) for water, since most of them do not work in conditions, in order to use water. [[Protests by PAN MP André Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u97	Mr. Pedro Morais Soares, I would like you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u98	I conclude by concluding, Mr President, that rather than resorting to instruments that can be used as blocking mechanisms, it is essential to identify problems and present environmentally friendly solutions, without harming the relevant sectors for the national economy, and agriculture is one of them. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u99	Mr Filipe Pacheco, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing here today a number of bills of amendment to the current legal regime of environmental impact assessment, but one thing is to discuss refinements and improvements to this model, another is to totally distort its principles and to be able to prejudice the preservation of environmental values. The NAP bill then says to what it is coming, and I quote: « (...) the current AIA legislation is not sufficient (... ) as it takes account of economic and financial issues ». Yes, Mr President, social and economic components must also be taken into account. For example, the social component, with the participation of the populations in the decision-making process, is fundamental, as in fact several projects recognize, particularly that of the CFP. But the NAP says more, and I continue to quote: « (...) only 5 % of projects subject to AIA are not approved ». And so they say that legislation does not defend the environment. To say all this is not to understand the function of this instrument. It is that the objective of an environmental impact assessment is not to lead projects, it is to direct them towards their sustainability. As is evident, no project is free of environmental impacts and, there, the objective of an evaluation is to evaluate them, identify whether they can be avoided, minimized or even compensated and, if they cannot, chum the project. In fact, the overwhelming majority of favorable decisions have even numerous conditions, such as changes to be made, requirements to be met at all phases of the project, etc. But the NAP proposes several other ad-hoc changes and one of them is the elimination of the possibility of compensation for environmental damage. Again, it is the total confusion of concepts. The NAP proposes to repeal Articles 42. o and 43. the current regime, but « environmental damage» is completely different from « environmental impacts », the damage exists when the damage has already occurred. Revoking these articles is only staying with the application of counter-ordinations when serious damage has already occurred to the environment. This is exactly the opposite of any environmental protection objective and, therefore, one does not perceive what they want. Finally, I would just like to focus on one of the measures of the Greens Ecological Party, which is the failure to extend the validation of environmental impact declarations. « Four years is long enough », Mrs Deputy said. But, Mrs Deputy, were not the authors of the CDU in the Setúbal district, which, a few months ago, concerning Alcochete airport, asked exactly the opposite, i.e. the extension of an environmental impact declaration at the age of 10, and when the law no longer allowed it? Oh, my God! There is also a need for consistency in this matter. Mr. President and Mr. Members, the environmental impact assessment for the PS is not merely a pro-forma, it is of the most remarkable contribution to sustainability and, therefore, we will always be available to make a serious and thoughtful discussion, but not to distort its objectives. Finally, I would like to congratulate Mr André Silva on his last speech and his invaluable contribution over the past few years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u101	For an intervention, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP also brings a bill to create the environmental impact assessment regime in both agricultural and industrial projects. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Leite Ramos, I would like to make a serious assessment here, based on four aspects, the first of which has to do with changes in land use. The agricultural system, in Portugal, has suffered a marked set of changes, of which are highlighted: the change in the production regime, with the growth of irrigation areas; the cultural change, increasing the areas of continuous intensive and superintensive production of permanent crops, of which are examples of olives, almonds and vineyards; the increase of greenhouse areas and the concentration of property, with the increase of the average area of agricultural holdings. The intensification of some productions has as a counterpoint the need to install industrial units, jeopardizing the environmental quality and quality of life of the populations. On the other hand, it has been assisted in promoting the installation of energy production centres from renewable sources, in particular photovoltaic power plants, many of which can be installed in soils with agricultural capacity, which are no longer available for food production. This is very worrying. A second aspect is that of intensive and superintensive agricultural production. In fact, he challenged some Members, if they knew it, to define what the intensive and superintensive regime is. This is the challenge we put to the government: to define it. The superintensive agricultural production mode is based on over-exploitation of land, with plantations in reduced composts — i.e. evidence — imposing a high density of soil occupation, which is associated with water consumption greater than traditional and the mass use of agrochemicals, fertilizers and pesticides. In addition to intensive and superintensive agricultural holdings, industrial units that are associated with them, in particular those installed for processing by-products, such as those for extraction of olive slurry, must also be subject to environmental assessment, in view of the emissions they promote to the environment. Right now, they're not. A third aspect is the use of soils in the National Agricultural Reserve for non-agricultural purposes. If the intensification of agricultural land use is an issue that requires evaluation, it is also the intention to use non-agricultural soils with high agricultural capacity, as you have already said, Mr Deputies, in particular those belonging to the National Agricultural Reserve. The use of extensive agricultural areas for other purposes other than agriculture is conditional or unfeasible for agricultural production and causes impacts at various levels, particularly in the field of food security and sovereignty. Finally, to conclude, I would like to talk about the need for an environmental impact assessment regime. This is what our project is about. The environmental impact assessment of projects, as required for its licensing, is currently not only dependent on the type of project as the size each project holds, i.e., if it reaches a certain limit. Thus, taking into account the types of projects, a set of pressures is required on the soil, surface and underground water resources, biodiversity, cultural heritage and populations, pressures that are far from being evaluated and we are far from knowing their consequences in the future. This is what we are bringing, seriously evaluating those aspects that need to be corrected in this case of environmental impacts. It is essential that such attention be paid. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u103	For an intervention, Mr Francisco Oliveira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u104	Ex. Mr. President, Ex.mas Sr.as and Ex.mos Sr.s. Members: As regards environmental impact assessment projects, which include, among others, the avocado plantation in the Algarve, we recognize that there is clearly the need to preserve a scarce good, which is water. However, in the Algarve, for example, there are 23,000 hectares of citrus fruit and only about 2000 ha are avocados. In the Alentejo, of about 3 million hectares of cultivation, only about 180 000 ha are of irrigation and not all of intensive culture. At national level, in the last 20 years—you can imagine! — the olive area has decreased. The cultivation of tropical products in the Algarve region for export to Europe allows a reduction in the carbon footprint and its costs and effects, compared with products imported from Latin America. In turn, the new irrigation systems, which need to be applied in these productions, reduce water consumption compared to traditional productions, particularly orange. However, an order has already been issued by the Secretary of State for the Environment clarifying the environmental impact assessment scheme, allowing, where a project is covered, or potentially covered, by an AIA scheme and no licensing or authorisation procedure is defined, to take place in Article 14 ( 2 ). Article 20 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ). that of that legal regime, thus responding to many of the concerns addressed in these diplomas. There is also in legislative process a resolution of the Council of Ministers, of the initiative of the Ministry of Agriculture, which responds to many of the concerns raised in these draft laws, such as: to consolidate information collection systems in the most intensive systems; to establish a regulatory framework of practices, to ensure the sustainability of intensive productive systems; to determine a internationally recognized sustainable production certification system; to implement a sustainable production certification system focused on olive and almond cultures, in the Alqueva area of influence, and in the avocacy culture, in the Algarve, and in the protected cultures in the Mira Rega Perimeter. It is also under review by the Government of the Office of Compatible Uses and Actions at the REN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u105	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the time remaining.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u106	I will finish, Mr. President. As regards the issue of the use of tree spraying, it is already prohibited under national Community law and can only be authorised by DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary) derogations in plant health emergencies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u107	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u108	An amendment to Decree-Law No 26 / 2013 is being prepared which will promote the creation of safety bands for the inhabited areas or with animal facilities, meaning that the measures already implemented, or to be implemented, by the Government, in particular those of environmental impact assessment, are mostly responsible for the proposals under discussion, and the PS will always be available for an analysis of these issues. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u109	For the closure of this point, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking Mr Filipe Pacheco for his kind words. In this debate, there is a confusion which seems to me to be proposed by the honourable Members. Deputies Luís Leite Ramos, the PSD, and Filipe Pacheco, the PS, and an attempt to throw sand into the eyes of those who hear us, saying that the proposals on the table, particularly that of the PAN, are going through errors of strong demagogy and are never based on science. But let's see. They say that ending the compensation measures may be a mistake. The honourable Member confuses compensation measures with mitigation measures and what exists in the law are true loopholes for, for example, the Montijo airport to be built. There are 150 compensation measures and the Montijo airport, with the environmental impacts it has, is built. For example, the construction of a college in Porto forced the slaughter of 30 or 40 rats and the compensation measure was to plant 30 or 40 rats in Torre de Moncorvo. Does anyone believe that this is actually a compensation measure? Oh, my God! So, what we propose is this: when a compensation measure clearly serves to approve a project, it should not be accepted. This is too obvious. As for demagogy, the NAP proposes — see! — the obligation to assess the environmental impact of extractive or chemical industry projects in sensitive areas. Is this demagogy? Oh, my God! Sorry but it's environmental protection! It is also obvious that these projects, due to their enormous impact on the environment, ecosystems and biodiversity loss, must be subject to an environmental impact assessment. They say there is persecution of farmers. Well, in this case there is some persecution, it is to the CAP, it is not to the farmers. It's different! Farmers are one thing and another is CAP. In fact, we do not understand how in territories such as, for example, the Algarve, where people, to drink water, to use water in their household consumption, must be supplied by autotanks, if they allow the installation of intensive crops, from the point of view of the water regime, without prior licensing. What we want, in these cases, is that there is only and only a prior licensing, an assessment of environmental sustainability. Of course, for you and for the CDS, the problem is not the avocado, nor the olive, the problem is the lack of dams in the country. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Morais Soares.]] We have few dams in the country and, therefore, this is solved by the construction of more dams.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u111	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u112	I will finish, Mr. President. But this legal regime, with all omissions and padlocks, gives perfect coverage to PS and PSD projects, and it is easy to make dredgings in protected areas, build airports, pig farming, explore lithium mines in protected areas and build dams. Why? Oh, my God! Because the legal regime of environmental impact assessment does not serve to lead projects, as was said by the Socialist Party, but, yes, to direct them to sustainability, whatever that is.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u113	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u114	Therefore, in this environmental impact assessment scheme, if not by a lever, then on the other hand, it is allowed to always approve the implementation of projects which have very high environmental impacts. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u115	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the third item on our agenda, we have entered into the fourth item, which deals with the consideration of the final report of the Committee on Parliamentary Inquiry to the State's Action in the Granting of Support, in the 2017 Fire sequence, in the Pinhal Interior Zone. I call on the President of the Committee on Parliamentary Investigation to provide support to the State following the fires in 2017, in the Pinhal Interior area, Mr Paulo Rios, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I present - before you as a proud chairman of the Committee of Parliamentary Inquiry to the action of the State in the allocation of support, following the 2017 fires, in the Pinhal Interior area. I believe that, without fail, this Committee of Inquiry has countered expectations and denied Vaticanes who intended to condemn it to futility or irrelevance. From a constitution, it began to be looked at and lived with disbelief, but even with sarcasm. But over time, with the quality of the debate and the contradiction, with the progressive documentary acquis and with the chosen hearings, it began to become meaningful and led to an increasing involvement of all the parliamentary groups present. Despite the technical, procedural and chronological analysis of State support following fires in Pinhal Novo in 2017, it was impossible to ignore the tragedy experienced by those populations and the devastation of lives and goods that devastated those territories. All these moments were lived in the Assembly of the Republic, with respect, respect for the suffering and anguish of some of the deputies, and with shame, for the issues that most strongly remembered the times of affliction experienced. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the relevance or usefulness of a committee of inquiry is not measured by the adoption of its conclusions, but it is necessary to value the capacity of dialogue and commitment which led to the adoption, without a vote, of the final report, which is not only by its conclusions but, rather, by its recommendations. In short, without modesty, I am convinced that this Committee of Inquiry has honored this body of sovereignty and that its Members have honored its mandates. As President, I could not aspire more than this. I would like to thank those who have made this Committee of Inquiry a reality and have made it an instrument of present and future: to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, without exception, with natural emphasis on the coordinators, from whom I have always received loyalty and a spirit of dialogue ; to the Members. Vice-Presidents, especially Mr Joaquim Barreto, who has never lacked solidarity with the Bureau, when I needed it; to the services of this House, anonymous heroes, who prepare, accompany and disseminate what is most important in this House. Finally, the statement of interest of the friendship that unites us, thank the rapporteur, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, whose sense of responsibility, rigour and dedication to public service was a constant in our work and whose report today we can display as a final result of our mandate. Thank you very much. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u117	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, as Rapporteur of the Possible Committee of Parliamentary Inquiry, spoke to the State in granting support following the 2017 fires in the Pinhal Interior area for intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : For one year, the work of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on State support allocated following the 2017 fires, one of the greatest tragedies in Portugal, in recent decades, for the loss of human lives and the trail of destruction left. An unprecedented wave of solidarity, which has mobilized millions of Portuguese, has contributed decisively to the offer of a quick response to the most urgent needs of the affected populations. With the aim not only to assess the performance of the XXI Constitutional Government, but also to contribute to the improvement of the processes in future situations of similar calamity, the report now presented is the result of 32 statements and more than 62 hours of hearings, which, in turn, have resulted in more than 2200 pages of transcripts, to which thousands of other pages of documents sent to the Commission and which are part of their acquis, available for public consultation. in this report there is no place for character judgements nor for assessments of individual conduct, whether of autarchs, citizens or rulers. It does not accept any reference to any fraudulent situations that have been or are the subject of criminal investigation, which have already or are not associated with judicial proceedings. in this report, never forgetting the context of immediacy and urgency that the disaster situation has generated, they portray facts, reveal objective numbers and rates of implementation of public policy measures in the most varied sectors: in agriculture, in the forest, in housing, in the economic activity, in the infrastructures and municipal equipment that, in view of the time available, I am willing to say more in detail here. It is a report which has been able to generate consensus reflected in its approval without a vote against and which advances with 67 conclusions, 73% of them unanimously approved, and which allows us to measure with objectivity what has been done well, what has been done less well and what is yet to be done. Yes, there are dangers that remain on the ground and there are problems that need urgent resolution. But the report does not come to a conclusion; it also presents 34 recommendations, i.e. guidelines, guidelines, proposals for a solution. And here, in the future, what we are able to prevent, mitigate and resolve will mark the success of this parliamentary committee and will unfortunately only partially return what the fire stole to the populations of the Pinhal Interior area in the fateful year 2017. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to conclude this speech by saying a word of thanks to all Members and to all Members. Members who have joined this Parliamentary Commission, the support services thereof, and a very special greeting and thanks to your President, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, by the competent, sensible, effective and intelligent form which has always printed on the conduct of the work. Thank you all very much. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u119	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, from the IL.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This liberal minute is dedicated to the exhortation of memory. Between 17 and 21 June 2017, Portugal failed — failed the state, failed prevention, failed combat, failed recovery later. It's good not to forget, it's good that there's memory. And it was not only the fact that the Prime Minister had taken four months to apologize, because today and here, I regret to say, we have seen one more demonstration of what has caused so much damage to this country: the culture of deresponsibility that the Socialist Party promotes and sustains. In spite of the rapporteur's efforts, please note that in the 122 pages of the report the word 'failure' appears once, and it is a quote from a former author; the word 'failure' appears once, and it is because a author referred to 'if the memory does not fail me' ; [[PS protests. the word ‘decoordination’ appears zero times; ‘late’ appears zero times; ‘responsibility’ appears seven times, but does not appear in the conclusions, it appears to point out some fingers. And to whom? To the CCDR (Regional Coordination and Development Commission) of the Centre, whose then president is the current Minister of Territorial Cohesion.]] [[PS protests.]] The Prime Minister stated in 2017 that as Prime Minister, more than to apologize, he preferred to assume responsibilities. For I have to say that with the PS — you know — excuses came late and responsibilities never come. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u121	Mr Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the report we are discussing today, I would like to point out that, at the time of setting up this committee of inquiry, we had the opportunity to say that its work should honour the collective memory around one of the most laborious days of our recent history. And this respect for this collective memory can be made not only through a balance sheet that this report brings us here, but above all through the prospect of necessary changes to the level of forest management and planning and the level of allocation of support in an emergency context, so that errors, with devastating effects like those we saw in 2017, do not repeat again. This report, from the authorship of Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira — which we take advantage of to welcome the work done — has fulfilled the difficult task required of him and has left us a work script which should lead us to introduce, in the coming days, a set of changes to take a path that will guarantee the safety of all. The NAP looks at some of the concerns presented and ponders in the coming years a number of legislative amendments which are recommended by this report. But at the forest level, the government has indeed had here — and we can't help but refer to it in the light of a lot of short points. Following the recommendations of the Independent Technical Commission, we can say, in our case, that it is necessary in the coming days to adopt an assessment logic in the present and adaptation to the future. Evaluation in the present is something that is achieved, in our view, with a global and independent evaluation of the National Forest Defense System against Fires, which assesses whether the system is effective and whether the investments in it are being made have been efficient. Adapting to the future is also something that is also done, as we have said several times, because of the adoption of a new strategy of forest planning and planning, focused on mitigating forest fires, which ensures the diversification of forests and the use of species that lead to less fuel formations, such as oaks or chestnuts, something that can be achieved, for example, with specific programmes to compensate for loss of income and profitability that this substitution of species can bring to the owners. But this report states, in line with what the Court of Auditors has also said, some problems with the support granted and that we cannot ignore. We had a lack of transparency in the evaluation criterion, lack of participation of local communities and lack of independent evaluation. We have had more bureaucracy in the candidacy and support processes for less citizens. We have had bad communication with the unhappy citizens and diplomas, which have generated in the citizens expectations that so far remain frustrated. Here, too, the path that is being drawn — and this Parliament should follow it — is to create an extraordinary and permanent legal framework that applies to situations of calamity and emergency, with predefined criteria, with the identified leaders and all the procedures established and approved before, ready to apply immediately to the crisis situation and with the provision of mechanisms that guarantee scrutiny irrespective of its application and the forecasting of a transparency portal, which enables the implementation and guarantee of support measures in the candidature, for example through support offices. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we thank, in particular Mr rapporteur, for this report. The NAP will, of course, help to implement these recommendations. And we hope that the remaining political forces, in view of the seriousness of this matter and the responsibility that we must honour the memory of all the victims, will also accompany us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u123	Mrs Eurídice Pereira, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost four years later, we bear in mind the tragic episode that, in June 2017, united the country in a profound dismay. Many wanted to help. Many wanted to try to mitigate the losses of those affected by these fires and, therefore, donations and support multiplied. In fact, this, and only this, was the subject of the Committee of Inquiry: support. The context of height was dramatic and imposed urgency. And, we have no doubt, the support that was given to the victims had a purpose: to fill in, in good time, the most pressing needs of the populations and to collaborate in the reconstruction. But for PSD this wasn't always obvious. The PSD, which decided to set up this Committee of Inquiry, made a great effort to focus the discussion on suspicions and to distort the purpose of these support. The PSD has chosen to focus the discussion on a — and I quote — « apparent irregularity of the process involving the allocation of support ». It is to say that the PSD attempt has been frustrated. Here, when the Assembly of the Republic meets to consider the final report of this investigation, we can see that this report does not prove any « apparent irregularity ». In fact, here we see that the PSD now recognizes the public pressure of the moment, that the circumstances require that decisions be speedy so that they can effectively serve the populations. This is also the position of the Court of Auditors, which is clear when it states — and I quote — that «a high degree of implementation of support has been observed in a reasonable time and that it has generally been distributed for the purposes and proportion of needs». It was this urgency and the need to ensure efficiency, speed and justice in the question of donations that led the Government to create the REVITA Fund, a social fund that allowed the process to be streamlined and that benefited from the proximity between local authorities and families and that was particularly important in the reconstruction of the homes affected and also in the agricultural resources of self-sustainment. This was also acknowledged by the PSD, which describes the REVITA as — and I quote again — « a timely solution for centralization and operationalization of the large amount of donations to be managed, from various sources, and with various forms and applicability », which « observed several of the international principles and recommendations » and enabled « to avoid duplication of support ». But the work of this Committee of Inquiry has also served to conclude that the answer has been efficient in supporting economic activity—and I quote again: « the companies have received the necessary support to resume their activity with some speed, not having been called into question the existing jobs ». It was also concluded that the response was full in relation to municipal equipment and infrastructure, and this was witnessed by the autarchs. It was concluded that agricultural producers, as well as families that produced for self-consumption, such subsistence agriculture, were able to have support. It was concluded that the response of the municipalities and the parish was essential, in a particularly difficult territory where local authorities are the ones who best respond and know the needs of the populations and who faster and directly establish contact with all local actors. It was concluded that the intervention of public health services, the support provided by the fugitives and the social sector entities of the region was crucial. But, if we are to appreciate the report today, I can only point out that, with regard to support in the field of forest, this report is merely presenting a set of clearly trending conclusions. The report minimizes the Government's efforts in response and ongoing and uninterrupted State intervention in the forest sector, ignoring, in particular, the programmes of the Safe Village Safe Persons and all subsequent measures, focusing on strengthening the level of protection of persons and goods. In fact, it was interventions that had a great deal of reinforcement with decisions taken at the Council of Ministers on 4 March this year, where we could hear the Prime Minister say that "this is a course that has to continue beyond the mandate of this government", considering that we are clearly faced with a reality that does not change from one day to another. It is true that we cannot lower our arms, we cannot lower our guard, but in fact, this matter of the forest is a matter that calls us all, but it calls us for a long time. I conclude by stating that the dramatic context defined the conditions of the response and that, in the face of the extreme difficulty of the context, the Government was able to respond adequately. This is the conviction of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, a conviction which, moreover, this report could not contest, as it could not accept the temptation of the PSD to launch suspicions about the people supported, for the keen desire to reach the XXI Constitutional Government. It has failed, of course, the report is the witness of this, but the PSD did not have political behavior to be recommended. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u125	Mrs Mariana Silva, from the ENP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD option in the Commission of Inquiry proposal, whose report we are now discussing, instead of focusing on the recovery of what has been lost and if the support has reached the populations, was to try to make the victims of the gross crimes that have been committed and opportunistic of the tragedy that has been unleashed on Pedrogão and other councils of Pinhal Interior. This report omits the causes that were at the root of fires and the responsibilities and political options of successive PS governments, PSD and CDS, wrong, distorted and contrary options to the needs and interests of the populations of rural areas and the interior of the country: chronic disinvestment in the interior, closure of public services, policies that led to the definition of agriculture, in particular family agriculture, a clear contribution to emptying the rural world and to order it a sentence of abandonment and thereby aggravate the fragility of the space where the forest and the forests enter. The size and amplitude of the 2017 fires is indissociable from the forest policy that has been based on the interests of the celluloses, promoting extensive monocultures of eucalyptus, of which is the example of the RJAAR ( Legal Regime of Arborization and Rearborization Actions ), of the PSD / CDS, which liberalized the eucalyptus plantation. from here a few days ago, four years have occurred the fires in Pinhal Interior. When policies were required to be reversed into the interior, the options of the past were largely maintained. The affected areas continue to lose population and to be so vulnerable to fires, because there is no support for micro and small businesses, lack of support for employment, culture, telecommunications, particularly the Internet, to strengthen public transport, among many other things. We do not forget that during the first wave of the pandemic, connections in public transport abroad were suspended in some of these municipalities, such as that of Pampilhosa da Serra. Support for small agricultural holdings affected did not compensate for losses. Many farmers were pushed into the simplified model of support, up to 5000 €, by the bureaucracy that blocked applications to the PDR2020. The losses of farmers were far beyond their own support. Four years later, the eucalyptus proliferates, particularly where it was not the predominant species. We walk at broad steps for the transformation of Pinhal Interior into inner eucalyptal. As far as housing is concerned, the report has made it clear that there is no support for the reconstruction of the second housing, which is of greater importance in this area of the country, contributing not only to the dynamism of the economy itself but also to the maintenance of the rural area. The sectoral recommendations that come out of this report, although important, cannot focus on the need for structural investment solutions, strengthening public services, agricultural and forestry policies, incentives for micro and small enterprises and the establishment of the population in rural and inland areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u127	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss the report of this Committee of Inquiry, of course the first word is for the victims of these gross fires, the victims who have lost their lives, those who have lost much of their property, who have lost their family members and who, of course, still suffer a lot from what has happened today. In particular on the Commission, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr President of the Commission and Mr Rapporteur on the work he has done, on the dignity with which he has done so and on the maximum attempt to make sense to a Commission which has limitations, it must be recognised from the point of view of finding facts and responsibilities on these processes. I must say that I am deeply sorry that a Commission of such importance is being used so much for the political-party confrontation and, more importantly, for taking responsibility from the back. I believe that anyone who has public responsibilities in Portugal, who has had them before those gross fires, who had them at the time and who has them today, must hardly say that he feels no responsibility. I can't say that! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u129	I would be unable to say that I was relieved by a committee of inquiry that, after all, it was not said that the government had any responsibility for anything. Mrs. Eurídice Pereira, I'm talking about you...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u130	Read the report!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u131	I think the CDS could be in the government and I would be unable to say that, because neither was it said in the Committee of Inquiry, nor was it possible, because, obviously, in the face of a tragedy of those, whatever the government was, there would always be responsibilities. Of course there would be responsibilities! Even more so when, in the Commission, many said that these responsibilities existed. And they are not responsibilities for what has happened, they are responsibilities for what has not happened, particularly in the area of forestry. If there is a clear conclusion and relevant recommendations in the report produced by Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, nothing has happened from the point of view of forest planning! Therefore, if it depended on what the government did, or even considering what Parliament approved, it did not happen again a tragedy like that, it could unfortunately happen again, because everything that was done in the role did not go to the ground. There was no one here who would say it happened! Neither autarch nor a public body. Nobody! No one was able to say that there was a substantial change in the forestry system that could prevent such a situation. It has now been said that the government has not proved to have done so. So what about support to farmers? Oh, my God! They were pushed into bureaucracy. There were several witnesses who told us that many of the farmers who could have been supported were not! Why? Because they did not ask for support—the Socialist Party will say. Yes, because the bureaucracy web that was created so that they could ask for support was so inhibited that people said: "To have so much work and so much difficulty, it is better not to ask for support! Do not keep on seeking. ” This is not to say of those who, even if they wanted to have this work, had no conditions, because they do not have practical knowledge to be able, for example, to apply for funds. So, for a small farmer whose little he had burned down, the solution the Socialist Party presented was the bureaucracy of a request for support process through funds? Oh, my God! Do you think that's the solution for people? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u132	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u133	I will finish, Mr. President. So we have finished the work of this Commission with certainty: whoever should have learned something from what has happened and heard something about what has happened in this Commission has not learned or heard. And that's a terrible sign for the country! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u134	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I greet Mr President of the Commission, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, and the Vice-Presidents for the way in which the work took place and were directed by the Bureau of the Committee of Inquiry, the Members who constituted it, the coordinators, the rapporteur, for the work you have done, and the officials of the Commission and the parliamentary groups for the very important contribution they have made to its operation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has expressed its sense of abstention in relation to this report because it considers that, despite the objective translation of a set of facts and elements resulting from the work of the Possible Inquiry Commission, the conclusions and recommendations have not been transposed into the conclusions and recommendations the solutions that are required, covering the causes and nature of such a disaster that they are responsible for decades of right policy. First of all, we point out that at the outset of the establishment of this Committee of Inquiry, on the initiative of the PSD, there was no interest in assessing and ascertaining, as a result of the gross fires in 2017, what was lost and if the support came to whom it should have arrived. The PSD option with this Commission was to turn the victims into culprits, vicarists, corrupts, wanting to make the citizens of Pedrogan a people who resorted to schemes to take advantage of the misfortune. What this report should conclude — it does not or makes it clear — is that, almost four years after the tragic fires, these populations, who lived in 2017 a real hell, still waiting for support that is missing, still waiting for the "development" of the affected territories, which the former and the current government have promised so much. We cannot shut down the fires that year after year go through our country, our forest, the destruction of thousands of agricultural holdings and the abandonment of thousands of hectares of cultivation and pasture as a result of the deep attacks that the policies of the PS governments, the PSD and the PSD/CDS have made to national production, the forest and the populations, together with the closure of public infrastructure and services and the absence of investments. This report also does not identify the overall value of the damage. to this day, unacceptablely, it is unknown what was the damage caused by the fire. The overall value of applications is also unknown, i.e. the State does not know — it does not know, but it should know — what were the requests for support. This is all that's happening, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because the overwhelming majority are small farmers! They are therefore aware of the answers to the main questions to which this Committee of Inquiry should have been able to answer, in particular what was before the fire, what was supported and what was to be done. It is also noteworthy, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this report did not consider one of the main reasons for the occurrence of forest fires the low price of wood paid to the producer. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, both in the hearings, and in this report it was once again the CFP who pointed out that one of the obstacles identified for the proper development and management of the forest is the low price of the wood paid to the producer. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD, which constituted this Committee of Inquiry only in order to question the victims and the support and to give centrality to suspicions and suspicions, has seen its objective failed, since the hearings have come to prove what the PCP has said: the populations have been victims, they have not been blamed! As regards the process of recovery and reconstruction of dwellings, which was indeed complex considering the need to give priority to the first dwellings, it became clear and was recognized by all deputies that the recovery of second dwellings is fundamental to the territory, because of the important role they represent in the economic and social dynamics of the territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u136	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u137	I will finish, Mr. President. in this report, the CFP has always struggled with the recognition of the responsibility of the State to support the total or partial reconstruction of both the first and second dwellings. However, this conclusion was not approved by the understanding that umbilically binds the PS to the PSD, which preferred to leave this recovery dependent on support mechanisms that, in practice, already exists. In other words, the government is responsible for the recovery of the second houses to the authorities, creating more indebtedness to the costs it has to bear. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u138	For an intervention, Mr Ricardo Vicente, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me start by expressing the solidarity of the Left Block towards all populations affected by the 2017 fires. They are not privileged, they are injured people, victims of fires, who still need a lot of support today. During the hearings of the Committee of Inquiry, it had to draw several conclusions and make quite relevant recommendations which we consider important to highlight. In all the hearings it was noticeable that, in that territory, a number of difficulties that were not only the result of the fires were difficulties that existed before — territories with older people, with difficulty in setting young people, in job creation — and that, in this course, they became more fragile and less capable of responding to the problem of fires and the challenges of the future, which will worsen. It was also noted during these hearings that the measures taken so far are insufficient to meet the needs of those populations. They are insufficient from the socio-economic point of view and are, in particular, insufficient for the reconstruction of the burned areas. This is clear in the eyes of anyone who visits those places. We need measures to rebuild the burning area and prevent fires for the future, and also to strengthen our capacity, as Country, to respond to fires when they arise. We look at a landscape that has now had a new invasion of eucalyptus and exotic species that grow disorderly and put the territory at risk. We find the abandonment of forest areas and the growing abandonment of agricultural areas as well, and at this very moment we must think that we have a common agricultural policy which is being transposed into Portugal by 2027. From recent studies, we also know that Pinhal Interior is one of the least favoured areas by the common agricultural policy and that this was one of the risk factors that led to the fires we had in 2017. It is therefore important that the current strategic plan of the common agricultural policy be considered—it is now being built—as a way to ensure the resilience of the territory and to ensure equity throughout the national territory. We know that the Pinhal Interior region benefits 10 times less support by agricultural workers than Alentejo, so it is important that the next common agricultural policy has this factor in mind, count the work factor, count equity criteria to ensure better response capacity. It was about this that four more experts recently resigned from the group set up by the Government to support the transposition of the common agricultural policy. There are already five experts in 15 who resigned, accusing the Government of the lack of criteria for territorial equity and transparency and of the inability to listen to technical and scientific recommendations. Where have we seen this movie before? This is one of the recommendations of this report: that the next common agricultural policy should take into account equity and fire prevention. It is also necessary not to forget the agricultural and family policy that is necessary to ensure the resilience of the territory, and in this sense the report also includes the deepening of the measures of the status of family agriculture and the revision of the regional forestry planning plans, which still take the eucalyptus as a priority species. But it does not stay here: it recommends and acknowledges that the Civil Protection system mistreats its professionals, and that, still today, from north to south, forest slags are in great precarious situation and need to see their recognized rights, that the professionals in the operating rooms...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u140	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u141	They need to stop being precarious, because this civil protection system needs to incorporate technical-scientific knowledge. Therefore, there is a set of measures — not trendy measures, are measures provided for by the Independent Technical Observatory ( ITO ), which has also been heard in this Parliamentary Inquiry Commission, which are being ignored by the Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u142	Mr Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking the work done by the services, by Mr President, by Mr Rapporteur and by all the Members who participated in the Commission. It was a single committee, which was requested by the PSD and which has always been challenged by the other parties, especially by the PS and the PCP. After a year, unfortunately, the PS did not learn anything, it has the same position as it had for a year, of disregard, of obstruction and denial of reality and of all that went wrong, always using the eternal discourse of « turning the victims into criminals». Nothing more wrong: this was never the intention, and the truth is that, hearing after hearing, time gave us reason. And it's not because the PS refuses to look at its responsibilities that we didn't have. So much so that, hearing Mrs Eurídice Pereira's speech today, we all felt, or any more careless viewer, that the PS voted against the report. You didn't vote, Mrs. Deputy! The PS abstained from voting on the report. We understand that he abstained because he had no alternative, so it was crystalline the truth that was out of him. Despite all this denial, it has always been very important for us to make this honor to the victims and the Portuguese who helped in the relief of that tragedy. He said António Costa during the tragedy of Pedrogão Grande : « Nothing can stay as before». Unfortunately, the PS did not hear Mr. Prime Minister's words and he thought everything should be the same as before. Better, he thought he should throw on the « before» a greater layer of opacity so that it would not be scolded and, above all, so that it would not be learned. In the PSD, we have always refused to fall into this fallacy of widespread fraud, which, like a virus that spreads, stains a population, a region, a people that has already suffered so much. Therefore, for the PSD it was as important to ascertain the truth, to rebuild the way everything happened, to understand who the protagonists and the facts were, at the distance of enough time to make an analysis as rational as possible. Hearing after hearing, we were accused of wanting to further aggravate the already dramatic situation of the victims of the fires. We have been unjustly accused of wanting to turn the victims into guilty—this is always the "disk at risk", probably the most common expression in the Commission's top—as anyone who reads the final report, in fact fully objective and suprapartmental, will conclude. in this balance sheet, I believe that we proved that the work we did was exactly the opposite: defending the victims and their rights, questioning why the non-reconstruction of their dwellings, so important for the vitality and economic development of the Pinhal Interior area, questioning why the absence of reforestation, prevention and fire control measures that would allow these people to sleep at rest, without permanent fear of living a tragedy again. This is still the reality of these people, and it has been transmitted to us with all the letters: before the inaction on the ground, there is still the fear, disturbing and distressing, that the misfortune again knocks them on the door. I am afraid, moreover, fully justified and confirmed by the ITO report. The President of the Chamber himself, Valdemar Alves, moreover, when he announced his non-remandature, came to the PSD. Let me quote it: 'This would help to create the idea of real measures to combat the abandonment of this territory and its people' — a cry of revolt before the state of affairs. Words that are not mine are from the President of the Great Pedrogon Chamber about the reality of that territory. Much more would be said, but that should only be enough for the Socialist Party to reflect, learn and do my fault, which it never did. The PSD concludes this proud wish of its work and is sure that it has made an important contribution to the mission it has proposed at the time of the constitution of this Authority: to contribute to correct the failures, to ensure that the same mistakes are not made and to learn from the best practices, that several experts have had the kindness to point us as the way. If we were motivated earlier and hoped that this Commission would contribute to helping the victims of the June 2017 fires, we are now sure that it will. But it does not just because it existed, it will have to be consistent, and for us it has already been. It is enough to remember that the PSD has already presented a bill for the creation of a solidarity emergency fund so that situations such as those in Pedrogan do not repeat themselves. Only in this way will we truly honor the victims and those territories, not denying and not refusing to look at what has happened. Only seeing the mistakes can we look to the past with vision of the future and do justice to those martyred people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u144	At the end of this item on the agenda, we move on to the next point, which consists of the debate on the progress report on government activity. This is an unprecedented debate, which we will do for the first time. And we're gonna do it right, sure. I begin by giving the floor to Mr. State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Duarte Cordeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate on the progress report on government activity is based on Article 226. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic and the will of the legislator in the revision process of the 2020 Rules of Procedure to make public the debate that took place at the Conference of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Committees. The change of this debate to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic aimed to give greater transparency to this poll, but also to give it more strength and importance, thereby reinforcing the supervision of the Government's activity, which must take account of its responsibilities and regulatory and constitutional duties, as desired in a strong and healthy democracy. The monitoring of government activity is not a new practice that has begun with this revision of the Rules of Procedure, and the Government faces this debate with full availability and with the same will as those who have always sought to respond to Parliament. The Government believes that the election of its activity by the Assembly of the Republic is a fundamental pillar of the democratic system and, as Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, having responsibility for the link between the Government and the Assembly of the Republic, I welcome the introduction of this complementary monitoring moment in order to give account to the Members and the Members. Members, on the elements necessary for your work. Article 226. the Rules of Procedure, which bring us here, shall refer to the examination of a progress report provided for in Article 21. the, which contains the status points relating to the approval and entry into force of the laws and their consequent regulations, the assessment of duties on questions and requests of Members and the political follow-up to resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic containing recommendations addressed to the Government. As the Rules of Procedure state, this debate should have taken place at the beginning of the Legislative Session, but in view of the extraordinary circumstances that we all live in, we hold the debate at the end of this session. This enables us, of course, to go beyond the report and address more recent data on government responses. The regulation of laws is one of the matters of monitoring this report. I would like to point out that, of the 66 laws approved in 1. the Legislative Session, only 3 % were not regulated within the time limit at the date of the report. As far as questions and demands are concerned, I want to note some developments. At 1. the Session was submitted 4358 questions to the Government, representing an increase of about 50 % compared to the previous Legislative Session, and an average of 12 questions submitted per day. I can give you just one example: only the Ministry of Education received 1182 questions. Of course, I would like to highlight these figures in order to note the increase in the activity of Parliament and of the Members of Parliament and of the Members of Parliament. Members and consequent increase in the demand in the Government's response. comparing the provisional balance sheet of parliamentary activity, which was drawn up in mid-July by Parliament, of 1. the Session of this Parliament for the 4th. The previous session of the Parliament, we verified a positive change in the Government's response rate from 48 % to 65 %. We also see a positive change in the July provisional balance sheet for the September 1 final report. the Session, from 65 % to 71 %. But our work has not finished there and we have reached a response rate of 83% to 1 today. the Legislative Session. Also at the level of the requirements, this positive development has occurred. With a variation of 15 % to 33 % in the response rate to requests in the provisional balance sheets of July 4. a Session of the previous Parliament for 1. the current session and subsequently 58 % to 75 % of the final report to date. With regard to the third aspect of this report, corresponding to the political sequence given to the resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic containing recommendations addressed to the Government, it is important to know that of the 53 resolutions that fall within this analysis, 32 resolutions had some kind of political sequence. Despite the policy recommendations that have so far represented around 60 % of the total, it is important to take into account that the resolutions do not bind the Government, they bind the Assembly of the Republic, from the very reason that they can oppose the Government's own programme. On the other hand, because if we interpreted the resolutions as binding, we could be turning the Assembly into an executive body, invading a competence that only concerns the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring to this debate the consideration of the presence of members of the Government in Parliament, which allows relevant moments of direct interaction with Members. We cannot ignore that there are questions that may have been asked in writing, which are also formulated in hearings in committees or debates in plenary sessions and which are answered in these contexts. And in spite of the developments we may have had in the written replies to the Members, which I have tried to demonstrate in this debate, it is important to say that the presence of government members in the Assembly of the Republic increases the opportunities to question and get answers from the Government. when comparing the presences of government members in parliamentary committees at the first legislative sessions of the XIII and the XIV legislatures, we saw an increase of 50 % and, despite the reduction in the number of plenary sessions resulting from the pandemic situation, the presence of government members in plenary sessions was also higher. This comparison gains even more expression when extended to the XII Legislation. This is, of course, due to a greater parliamentary activity and initiative in a more diverse and pluralised House of the Republic, with more parties represented. The Government values and is committed to the Assembly of the Republic. We know that there is always room for improvement in our performance and that this debate will certainly help that analysis. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u146	Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u147	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: Yesterday I had the opportunity to say that, for a healthy democracy, it is essential that excessive or hegemonic powers be opposed, and that is why there are brake and counterweight systems. One of the most important counterweights is precisely this one, which is the responsibility of the Assembly of the Republic, to produce legislation, make recommendations to the Government and to ensure compliance with these same recommendations. Now, in this report, detailing the statistics you cited, it is clear that since the PS is able, since 2016, there are 66 cases of laws that have already passed the deadline and that they are either not partially regulated or are not regulated at all. It is close to three dozen resolutions in which the 'political sequence given by the government' field is empty and we will have, within this framework, what the government shows and that it cannot fail to be interpreted as contempt for this House of Democracy. This is a fundamental issue: there are no democracies, liberals or others, without respect for the system of brakes and counterweights, and the PS government has not shown that respect. Therefore, because of the commitment that the Liberal Initiative has to defend and improve the democratic system, the conclusions of this report and the action of the Government, which the same report reflects, can only deserve our repudiation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u148	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u149	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: It is not surprising that we are talking about a report on the progress of government activity and that the Secretary of State is present here alone. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u150	When, about a year and a half ago, we watched as the fifteen-year debate with Mr Prime Minister was removed, with the central bloc calling for a new stage of debate in the Assembly of the Republic, in fact, the Secretary of State, with all the respect we deserve, is not at all concerned with his presence, quite the contrary, it is unusual that the other members of the Government have not accompanied him so that we can discuss this same report. With regard to the implementation and performance of the Government, I wanted to leave two notes that seem important to us. On the one hand, with regard to the analysis of the report itself and the implementation of the measures, the Secretary of State, on a justification for accepting the recommendations or resolutions issued here, said that the Assembly is not an executive body. Well, it's not an executive body, but I remind you that the House is a deliberative body and not just a supervisor. This means that the Government cannot go back to the opinion of the Assembly of the Republic, because it translates into the opinion and will of the people, into the will of the voters who brought us to this House precisely so that, in partnership with the Government, of course, we could not only bring the concerns of the country here as the answers we seek to give to the different issues. On the other hand, this obviously relates to the implementation of the State budget itself, either 2020 or 2021, which was not mentioned in its intervention. Although we know that we have had an extraordinary pandemic context, which has conditioned some of the measures, this does not justify failure to implement all the measures. I am bringing this issue to you, Mr Secretary of State, precisely because we are going to start for a new negotiation of the State budget for 2022, and it is essential that a government which presents itself to the Assembly of the Republic to bring a new State budget tell us at least what is the implementation of the measures which have been consensualized and approved by the same Assembly. And much has been on the way! If, on the one hand, there are a number of subjects that make it positive — the creation of a special family restructuring licence for victims of domestic violence, which was implemented by the Government in December last year; the strengthening of the Safe School Programme, for the reduction of violence and risk behaviours in the school year; or even shelters for forced-married victims, there were, in fact, a number of other proposals, too many that have been left behind and that have not yet been realized. I am speaking of the support to artists with functional diversity; a legal regime for livestock collection centres and wild animals, which has not come out of paper; the lifting platforms for wheelchairs and the adaptation of handrails for Braille reading, so that our cities are more inclusive and allow mobility in terms of inclusion; the exemption from VAT (tax on value added) for psychologists. All of this was behind, with the Government's complacency, even at the level of the interpretations of the Tax Authority. So, Mr. Secretary of State, to conclude, we will soon start a new negotiation. over the course of this year, we have heard too many times the invocation of the labour law so as not to provide social support, however support has already been given to the bank and more than 430 million euros have been made available to the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u151	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u152	I really am concluding, Mr President. Now that we are moving to a new phase, which is very important for our country, we must ask ourselves the following, Mr Secretary of State: what will the government remain in? Will it be on the back of Parliament or will it be available for dialogue?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u153	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u154	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: in this debate, the Greens want to make some comments that we can divide into three parts. On the one hand, the Government's answers to written questions, which are an important component in the monitoring of the government's activity by this House ; on the other hand, whether or not it complies with resolutions; and finally compliance with laws and regulations. Starting with the written questions, I wanted to say that it is practically institutionalized, but it is wrong to fail to comply with the deadlines laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the Government's replies. And with an aggravating, because despite the Rules of Procedure requiring the Government to communicate and to substantiate the failure to comply with that deadline, the various ministries are afraid not to make that foundation. Still on the written questions, I wanted to add two more notes. The first is because the Ministry of the Environment has taken a long time to answer the questions, in some cases it has lasted up to one more year, and it has been necessary to be publicly confronted for the answers to come in retro dupe. The second note is to record that the Ministry of Labour is a kind of standard response champion and the subject was redirected to the ACT ( Labour Conditions Authority ). As far as resolutions are concerned, I am referring to some of them, whose implementation is empty and which are very relevant to the Greens. It is true that they have no binding nature, as Mr. Secretary of State says, but they do not cease to have a political reading. Therefore, of the resolutions that have remained blank, of which The Greens consider to be the most important, we highlight the following: the preservation of the quality of the universal public service; the suspension of the dredging in the Sado estuary; the requalification of EN225; the revision of the Albufeira Convention; the defense of the sustainability of the Tejo River; and finally the measures within the official animal collection centres. They are therefore important matters that deserve a word in this report and more attention by the Government. As regards the laws, we highlight two subjects which remain in cod waters and which have already exceeded all the deadlines laid down, despite the Government's commitment to resolving them during last year. We refer, on the one hand, to ProSolos law and, on the other, to the Statute of Justice Officers. In fact, despite the insistence of the Greens, our country remains without specific legislation to safeguard soil protection, simply because ProSolos law remains unpublished after successive delays over the past few years. We are talking about a diploma whose public consultation took place in 2015 and which, six years later, is still being examined by the government. In fact, the Government has already submitted several dates for its publication, but so far nothing, and the last response we heard from the Government, by Mr Prime Minister, was that this proposal would be in legislative consolidation, but by the way, no one fully understands what this is. With regard to the review of the Statute of Justice Officers, which under the law should have been completed in July last year, the Government again failed the new legally established deadline, which was 31 March of this year. However, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in view of this framework, it was interesting for the Government to make us the point of the situation on these two matters today. By the time the land law was published? And when is the publication of the review of the Statute of the Officials of Justice supposed to be negotiated with their representative organisations? [[Congrats from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u155	Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u156	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: This debate is not appropriate for us to do a kind of mini-state discussion of the nation and the concrete monitoring of each of the diplomas in late times, but I think that the importance of this subject cannot be underestimated and underestimated because Parliament's competence to monitor the government's activities depends largely on the access to information and the responses the Government owes to the Assembly of the Republic in the context of this supervisory function. Comparing the scores for one year for the other, it is not possible to normalize the government's shortcomings in answering questions and demands, which are necessary part of the exercise of the supervisory function by the Assembly of the Republic. We know that this is not the tradition and that we have already had worse times than the present one, but the fact is that we cannot accept that the Government persists in refusing to answer a part so substantial that the Assembly of the Republic directs it in the context of this supervisory function. The other role of Parliament, which is the legislative function, also finds in this report the testimony that it cannot be fully fulfilled because the government is delaying or simply blocking the regulatory implementation of many of the legislation produced here. And we're not talking about small things! Some have already been mentioned, but I refer to the law on harassment at work, the law on the protection of vulnerable tenants and the guarantee of security and stability in access to rent or, magna question, the regulation of the Health Bases Law in careers, of exclusivity, in the multiannual plan. We are not talking about small things, we are talking about complex legislative processes in which Parliament has devoted a great deal of work, in which it was possible to arrive at very relevant, very important legislative conclusions, which the whole country has accompanied. What the whole country often does not know is that these conclusions have little effect, because the government lacks to comply with its share in the regulation of Parliament's laws. Therefore, it is not a small issue that, in such important matters and in such important parts of the questions and demands it receives, the Government simply does not correspond to the regular functioning of the Assembly of the Republic within its powers. It is, therefore, with great concern that we see the persistence of this problem and a certain normalization of the same that is done by the Government, when it has presented some small improvements, of course we still have a huge array of questions to answer and legislative processes to conclude in terms of regulation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u157	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u158	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members : I would first of all like to stress the importance of this report. This is the first time that we do so, I believe that the existence of this report and the detail with which it is drawn up deserve this House, in the exercise of its supervisory function, and I believe that this is a cause for congratulations. I would like to relativise the content of this report in a certain sense. In fact, the Assembly of the Republic has been improving the monitoring mechanisms over the years, and this should be emphasized. If this report allows us to detect vulnerabilities that need to be pointed out regarding these mechanisms, it is because there is this possibility of monitoring. In fact, we are no longer in time, which I have already known, in which the questions to the Government, for an oral answer in plenary, were presented one week in advance and, in the case of my parliamentary group, we had to present two for the Government to choose what would be best for it. This looks like the caricature domain today, but it is not. It was like that, and I'm glad it's not like that anymore. Whose credit is it? It's the voter's credit. It is that when there are no absolute majority in this House, there is a step forward in the implementation of government supervisory mechanisms. Therefore, in times of absolute majority, government supervision tends to be suffocated and, when there is no absolute majority, of course it breathes in another way and Parliament has better conditions for carrying out its monitoring activity. In view of this, there are some aspects of this report that should be mentioned. There is, of course, the problem of resolutions. We found that exactly half the number of resolutions that were followed and those that did not. This matter of resolutions would lead to a wider discussion. The Secretary of State referred to this and, of course, they have no binding character. The use of the way of resolution to make recommendations to the Government is relatively new and deserved a reflection. In fact, it has no binding character, it has the meaning of a relatively additive vote, but it is worth making a serious reflection on the nature of the resolutions and the effectiveness they should have or should not have. However, we do not have time for this, because there are others who would like to refer, in particular, to questions from the Government. We have had 4358 questions to the government here, which is very significant and has to do with the existence of more parliamentary groups and only representatives of one party (DURP), and so there is a tendency to have a wider number of questions. That's not good or bad, it's what it is, and the government has to answer that. But we must not fail to point out that 1063 unanswered questions, over time, are a very high number, even taking into account those already mentioned 4358. And there are some ministries that have to be marked. Of course, some of them have the most questions, but they also have a degree of non-response that is excessive. We refer to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing and the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action. Among these, the Ministries of Health, Labour, Solidarity and Social Security and the Environment and Climate Action have a more expressive number of questions, but also have an excessive number of unanswered questions. Then there is another aspect, already pointed out here and which is true, which is the merely formal answer, which does not respond to anything. Mr José Luís Ferreira, a few years ago, gave an example, of which we know many, which is the following: a question is asked about what the Act did in the face of a collective dismissal in a company and the government responds "we communicated to the ACT". It was what was missing that was not communicated to the ACT! What we wanted to know was what ACT did. And when an answer like this comes up, what do we know? Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u159	It's hundreds!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u160	There are hundreds, as Mr Bruno Dias says. Therefore, this aspect should also be improved, so that the answer was not a non-response, which counts as a response to the statistics.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u161	I would like to draw your attention to time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u162	I shall finish, Mr President, with a final reference to the issue of reports and information that the House receives — and here is not only the Government that is missing. Moreover, we have been adopting legislation where we say that a report must be submitted and we already have 177 reports due to the Assembly of the Republic, of which 63 have not been sent. And here, I was pointing out the regulators. In fact, if we find out in detail — and with this end, Mr President — what are the missing entities, we find that many of the missing reports are regulatory entities. This should be seen, however, because the supervision of the Assembly is done on the acts of the Government, but there are other entities that also have to account for the Assembly of the Republic and many of them do not, in particular, do not do so to the regulators, who are very responsible for the proper functioning of the State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u163	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u164	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Without wishing to demean this debate and its possible relevance,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u165	But you're scared!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u166	... I would say that this debate and even what Mr. Secretary of State brought us here gives us a little insight—and it does not stop being interesting, nor important, that is not what is at stake — statistical or accounting of what Parliament's work is, or what Parliament's relevance is, or what all of us, as representatives of the people, are doing. And that is not, in fact, the most important political view. With regard to the various points mentioned, I would say that in fact I agree with Mr António Filipe, when he said that in recent times there has been a significant change in Parliament's ability to monitor. In the regulatory responses, there are ministries that respond better and others that respond worse; there are ministries with a response rate of less than 50 %, such as, for example, Health and Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, but which will also be the most requested and, more importantly, in a crisis and pandemic situation. With regard to my parliamentary group in particular, I must say that, of the last 426 questions we have asked in recent months, 57% of them have been answered out of time, about 16% have been answered within the deadline and 110 questions have not received any answer, and many of them have been asked in November. So I do not say that this is where there is a drama, but I want to record that we continue to have, in particular, some ministries with difficulties and with a clearly unsatisfactory response rate. But, I repeat, in my opinion, this is not the point. The point is in politics, political debate and the government's political response. And from this point of view, what we believe to be important is that Parliament has not been valued before it has been devalued. And it has been devalued by the will of those who govern, by the will of the greatest party here present and, saying the things as they are, with the collaboration, for example, of the Social Democratic Party. What we are interested in is that there are over 100 answers, within or outside the deadline, when we no longer have, for example, fifteen-year debates,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u167	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u168	... when we stopped having the Prime Minister here, as was the case from 15 to 15 days, to respond to parliamentary groups on political matters? It's true: it was at the center that this was solved—and bad! There was politics, there was the essence of the political debate. The thematic debates, in which the Government chooses the member of the government who comes here, sometimes completely outside of what is the current concerns and the political agenda of the moment, have also diminished this scrutiny.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u169	I would like to draw your attention to time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u170	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. That is where Parliament's quality and the quality of democracy are concerned. So from this point of view, in our view, we are no better. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u171	If there are no registrations, we will move on to the closing phase. The gentlemen. Deputies have five seconds to decide if they want to use the word. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u172	They even forget to talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u173	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the holding of the debate, the increased scrutiny that the debate allows. I welcome in particular the Secretary of State, beginning with the fact that I believe that we all owe Mr. Secretary of State, since, by not abusing analogy, he should not be transformed into the « Lamb of God» who is to make up for the sins of all the governments that preceded him. [[PS, PSD and PCP rice.]] On the contrary, it comes, quite in detail, to make the performance of accounts which, in a healthy democracy, must be done before Parliament. Therefore, for him, our solidarity and our parliamentary thanks. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is even a little more than Afonso de Albuquerque, if we remember one of his last phrases, according to which « Bad with men for love of God, and evil with God for love of men», because indeed Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs is our representative who, in some way, with the Government, ensures that the answers are given as early as possible and that he seeks to promote and ensure that the Government here is accountable. Therefore, it is in fact the person indicated to be in this debate, since what is intended is not a commission of government members, ministers or State Secretaries, because the nature of this debate is not that. We could go back to the other issue, that of the 15th-year debate, but I am certainly not the most appropriate person in the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to talk about it. On this point, it is indeed confirmed that this report is the balance sheet and what it can bring to us is useful for the parliamentary debate that we will be able to do on these matters in the future. But we need to take into account three very different things which are included in this report and in the debate we are doing about it. Firstly, an assessment of constitutional and regulatory duties on questions and requests. This is perhaps even the most important and objective aspect that we can use and remove from here. It has important elements because it has a dual nature, it allows us to obtain concrete information and clarification on public policy issues and also follows the good practices which, over the years, Parliament has been deepening, as Mr António Filipe and others have already mentioned. Therefore, they are a fundamental instrument in this scrutiny framework. But it has also been emphasized that we must take into account the context in which we are discussing this debate. It is a context in which we have 11 political forces between non-registered Members, only representatives of a party and parliamentary groups, which also means a substantial increase in questions addressed to the Government. But on the other hand, we have more presences of government members, who also create more additional places to make these clarifications, and this should be taken into account in the way we look at this matter. But I would say that, of all, it is the one from which we can draw more teachings and more ways to continue to improve the quality of this scrutiny. Secondly, we have an additional set on the entry into force and regulation of laws adopted by Parliament. And here we could do an old drawback, which we don't always do in this debate. It is necessary to distinguish cases of effective absence of regulation of cases where the previous regulation is still in force and no new regulations are required, cases which sometimes go unnoticed and for which the detail of this report should eventually be further elaborated. On the other hand, there is also a need to distinguish situations where we are effectively facing regulation in the absence of situations that have nothing to do with this and which are, for example, legislative authorisations, which continue to be referred to in the report, but which, in fact, are a faculty given to the Government to use a permit which the House gives it to legislate, not confusing itself with the reality of lack of regulation so that a law can enter into force. There is still the matter of basic laws, which are not dealt with independently, but which, as Mr Jorge Costa has said, is more important in the view of Parliament to follow the development of a law, because only the government can develop it and there can then be problems in the implementation of public policies. So there are some clues on this point, about what we can improve in future versions of the report, making it a little bit more detailed and a little more able to give us a clear perspective on what is on the table. Finally, in the third part, if we want to, the debate on the political sequence given by the Government to the resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic, we must bear in mind that at this point there is no need to reverse the functioning of the political system, i.e. the Government is obviously addressed to these recommendations, but the Government also has a programme to implement, and implement with the consent of Parliament. Therefore, in cases where this sequence is contradictory or where the scale of priorities may be different, the Government has all the legitimacy to take the option to follow up or not on a particular subject of a resolution. This does not mean that Parliament cannot criticize it, in view of the lack of political follow-up. Now, in view of Parliament's failure to comply or disrespect, that is, in my view, abusive because the government may legitimately fail to follow a recommendation from Parliament. This is because ours is not a parliamentary assembly system, ours is a system in which the parliamentary component is important, but it is not the only one for the operation of the system. Finally, to conclude, I would like to note that it is very important what Mr António Filipe pointed out about the other bodies which must be accountable to Parliament and which do not do so, which we should certainly reflect on in the future, whether with another report or with another modality. So we have a lot of clues about how to improve this work, but above all I would stress that, before further questions and demands and despite more government coming to Parliament, we actually have more answers and we also have an effort and a dedication, seeking to correspond to what Parliament expects of government activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u175	Good afternoon, everyone. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u176	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members : As important as democracy itself is its quality. And today, full democracies are distinguished, among many other factors, by the transparency in the exercise of political function, by the civic and democratic culture of the political protagonists and by the completeness of the functioning of their institutions. However, while paying attention to these assumptions, the report or, rather, the various reports under consideration today, show us that the conduct of the government does not contribute to improving the quality of our democracy. In fact, the government that makes it clear that the government that lacks legislation is the same government that arrived at the end of 1. the Legislative Session with more than 80 legal diplomas to be regulated, and these, by more than half, the deadline for its regulation has already been exceeded. For a Government which would also like to measure the economic impact of the laws produced before its adoption by the Council of Ministers, it is appropriate to ask, Mr Secretary of State, what the economic, administrative, environmental and social costs of its omissive behaviour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u178	What about the recommendations adopted by the Assembly of the Republic and addressed to the Government, but which it seems to have considered to be, in its overwhelming majority, only worthy of a small place in the archives of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers? What do you say, Mr Secretary of State, of reports and information of a diverse nature, more than six tens, that the Government and other public entities are legally obliged to refer to the Assembly of the Republic, but that they fear not to arrive at the House of Democracy? And what to say, Mr. Secretary of State, of the thousands of questions and demands that were left unanswered in 1. The Legislative Session? Is it perhaps, Mr Secretary of State, acceptable that the Government may diminish the representative expression of popular will and hinder the exercise of the powers of control and political control of the Assembly of the Republic? No, it's not tolerable. Is it perhaps acceptable for the Government, the most always expensive, with the ministerial offices in 2020 to consume more than EUR 73, EUR 2 million on the public record, to leave 1276 questions unanswered? No, it is not acceptable, Mr. Secretary of State. Is it really acceptable that this government itself will answer only 2240 questions after the legal deadline for this purpose? No, it is not acceptable, Mr. Secretary of State. None of this is acceptable and all of this hinders the mission of the Assembly of the Republic, devalues the role of Members, undermines the confidence of citizens in Parliament, degrades the quality of our democracy. None of this is acceptable, but all this is recurrent in a recurrence government, which hates to be scrutinized, which hates to be controlled. The debate we are debating today, despite Mr. Secretary of State's denial, takes place against the will of the Government and against the will of the Socialist Party, the only political force that voted against its inclusion in the revision of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u179	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u180	A government that does not like to be voted on is always a government that is ill-accompanied with the independence of sovereignty agencies, supervisory bodies and also regulatory entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u181	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u182	from there the indisputable irritation to audits, reports or evaluations critical to their government action, come from the Court of Auditors, the Council of Public Finance, UTAO, or any other entity. the « redundancies », by telephone, of the uncomfortable former President of the Court of Auditors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u184	... hence the direct appointment of Dr. Mário Centeno, former Minister of Finance, to Governor of Banco de Portugal, hence the placement of Dr. Caldeira Cabral, former Minister of Economics, in the Insurance Supervision Authority and Pension Funds. The Government is ill-accompanied with the scrutiny and independence of the sovereign bodies, the supervisory bodies and the regulatory entities, but it is well associated with the privileges it feeds, with the management of the proximity to power, which it cultivates, and with the fragility of the independent institutions, which continues. This is your philosophy, and this is evident in the reports that today, for the first time and on the proposal of the PSD Parliamentary Group, we appreciate in this plenary session. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u185	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Only to note that the Socialist Party was in fact the only one who voted against. On the other hand, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira made eloquently the demonstration of greater skepticism in this debate: unlike all other parliamentary groups, he managed to turn the debate into a quantitative rather than qualitative thing, he managed to forget all the action of the government itself, supported by these parliamentary benches, saying that he did not answer the same questions or resolutions, in the same terms — and he quickly managed to insert all the populism matrices in a parliamentary debate. Congratulations, Mr. Deputies! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u187	For the end of this debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to thank the speeches made by the various parliamentary groups. contrary to what Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira said, the government is very well associated with the polling. And here, on behalf of the Government, I am naturally living with this debate. It is not surprising that sometimes in the debates in which we are monitoring the government, it is said that there is a lack of debate, a lack of supervision. We have a chance to do it, and here I am for that. Then I wanted to tell the gentlemen. Members that this debate already existed. The only thing the Rules of Procedure have done was to transport the debate that existed between the Government and the chairman of the parliamentary committees to the plenary. This debate existed and had the same role as it has today, which is to examine the activity of the Government in its multiple dimensions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is not here saying that it is not essential to respond within the deadline, because that is fundamental. I, as Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, am perfectly aligned with the parliamentary groups and with the Members of the Assembly of the Republic, because the pressure that the parliamentary groups and the Members of Parliament make me is the same as I am doing and transport to my colleagues in the Government, so that they will respond within the time limit. I shall be the last to say that it must not be answered within the deadline, but it would also be absurd to stop recognizing the evolution that has existed from the point of view of the answers, because we have not given up to respond, even after the deadline. It is our duty to do so and it is also our duty to demonstrate whether or not there is an evolution during previous legislative sessions in relation to the responses, regardless of whether they are within or outside the deadline. I would also point out that I have also been tempted — as we all have, of course, when we look at dimensions like these — to transform the debate into quantitative, statistical. It's hard not to, almost all of us did. But the truth is that we have to get out of the quantitative dimension and we have to look at the qualitative dimension, because it is very important that the debates exist, so that each parliamentary group will highlight the most relevant matters, which we should not ignore, indeed, take them into account in what is the government's response and its interaction with the parliamentary groups. It should be noted that the written questions and requests are not the only moment of interaction with the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the debates are also fundamental. So much so that many written questions are asked again in debates and interactions. And when the answers exist, from the point of view of the debates, the honourable Members. Members will not discount them in the written questions they have asked; they will continue to look at the statistics to check whether the role has arrived or not. So when we look at these debates, we all have in some way to get out of a purely bureaucratic dimension from the point of view of the debate. For us, Government, the ability to respond is fundamental and we are in a strong and healthy democracy, so it could not be otherwise. As subscribers to a liberal democracy, we obviously want to fight for this to happen in our democratic system. Of course, the Government has an interest in implementing the State budget and of course it has an interest in maintaining its understandings, in renewing its confidence and approving more State budgets. All our logic will be in the sense of proving both the Member of the NAP and all the other parliamentary groups with whom we have made our views, which has justified an agreement with the Government, because we want to renew the political agreements we have made. They may believe that one of the subjects on which I am most committed is necessarily the ability to demonstrate that we deserve the confidence of the parties that have negotiated with us. On the one hand, I would like to note that the Government, with regard to parliamentary work, seeks to answer the questions raised. We cannot ignore that it has increased the volume of the questions put to the Government, which does not diminish our responsibility, because here we are to answer all the questions that you are asking. Ladies and gentlemen put it in. On the other hand, I wanted to note that some of the data that Mr. Members have summarized themselves at the time of the report, because, between the report and today, the number of responses has increased substantially. With regard to some of the situations which you are aware of. Members quoted — I do not want to encourage you, and sometimes publicly criticise you, too, if you substantially increase the responses by the members of the government. One of the cases mentioned above had to do with the Minister of the Environment, who is, in fact, one of the Ministers who has the highest rate of answers to questions, with about 93% of the answers given — I am very pleased to show — and the demands, with 97% answered. Another thing is the analysis that we make of the answers, whether we disagree or whether we have the quality that you have. Ladies and gentlemen, please. On the resolutions presented in the Assembly of the Republic, of course, the Government will always be present and giving answers, but may or may not follow up on them. And the fact is that the data I have referred to that 60 % of the resolutions adopted, with a recommendation to the Government, had some sort of sequence so far. As far as many of them are concerned, the sequence is not given within the time limits which the honourable Members have given. Members would like; in relation to others, there is simply no follow-up because democracy, purely and simply, allows us to disagree. And when the Government Programme is contrary to a resolution adopted in the Assembly of the Republic, objectively the Government will not follow that recommendation. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no point in having doubts on the matter: disagreement is part of democracy and the government assumes these disagreements as a whole, and so it cannot but be. And here we are in the debates to account. As regards the issue of the presence of government members, objectively the Government has been more present in the Assembly of the Republic ; another thing, Mr Telmo Correia, is whether the parties take advantage of the presence of government members in the Assembly of the Republic to do their part. I repeat: the members of the Government have been more present. Mr Telmo Correia, on the question on the 15th-century debates, I did not do this statistics, I did not do that, but I would really like to see the difference in Mr. Prime Minister's presence in this legislative session since the amendment took place. It is that Mr. Prime Minister has often been present in the debates...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u189	When it's good for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u190	... and the gentlemen. Members had even more time, in each of the debates, to put the questions to Mr Prime Minister. I am saying again that another question is whether or not these moments are taken advantage of. Therefore, I do not come here to exaggerate the government's failures in relation to the answers that are given out of time or to the absences of response. That's not my role. My role is really to highlight the Government's commitment to the Assembly of the Republic and to the political parties to respond to the issues and demands that are put in place. This commitment remains firm and the government will of course continue to work towards improving its response, agreeing with many Members. Members who say that quantitative analysis must be replaced by a qualitative dimension. What matters in these debates is to understand exactly the priorities set by each parliamentary group, because this can naturally improve our response. Thank you very much to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen. I am convinced that this debate must only be attended by the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, who obviously represents the Government. It would be absurd if all government members were here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u191	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the sixth point on our agenda, to which no time has been allocated for discussion, include Bills No. 619 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial limits of the parish of Boivães and of the Union of Freguesias de Castro, Ruivos and Grovelas, of the municipality of Ponte da Barca, 621 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial limits of the parish of Nogueira and Silva Dark, the municipality of Maia and the parish of Coronado ( São Romão and São Mamede ), the municipality of Trofa, 627 / XIV / 2. a — Amends the territorial limits of the Valongo parish of Vouga and the Union of the Frequencies of Trofa, Segadães and Lamas do Vouga, of the municipality of Águeda, 653 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial boundaries between the parish of Escapães and the parish Union of Santa Maria da Feira, Travanca, Sanfins and Espargo, belonging to the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, 743 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial boundaries of the castle parish of Maia, the municipality of Maia, and the parish of Alvarelhos and Guidões, Wall and Crowned, the municipality of Trofa and 744 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial limits of the parish of Folgossa, the municipality of Maia, and the parish of Coronado ( São Romão and São Mamede ) and Covelas, of the municipality of Trofa. Before we proceed to the vote, Ms. Maria da Luz Rosinha will report on the file she has entered the Bureau in the meantime. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolution No 1305 / XIV / 2. a
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u193	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. As I could not be present at the last intervention in plenary — this stage of your life, at least — by Mr André Silva of the NAP, because you were meeting in Infarmed, I wanted to stress the importance of your work, because it was very worthwhile and had consequences in the elections immediately prior to this legislature. On the other hand, I would like to welcome its continuing good education and ability to dialogue and establish bridges with all parliamentary groups and with the Bureau of Parliament. I wish you the greatest personal, professional and political happiness, because I know you won't be long away either from politics or from this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u194	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u195	You have the floor, Mr. André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u196	Mr President, I am very grateful for your words, with all my appreciation. at this moment, I wanted to emphasize that it was a magnificent civic experience that I had. It was a privilege to represent people, voters, and to beat me by moving forward with answers according to the values and the globalization of thousands of people, as well as of the party I have always represented. I therefore stress the parliamentary experience and how much it has contributed to my political and social training, particularly in my civic dimension. Mr President, if I may, I would like to make three thanks, because they are fair, but before I do, I meant that I have made a lot of friends and that I have established fraternal relations that I intend to maintain in the future. I don't leave enemies in politics, but I leave a lot of opponents, and still well. I would like to thank you, then. The first is the employees, all and all, of all divisions. For those who hear us out there, I wanted to say that the professionalism of all officials and all officials in this Parliament is absolutely inexhaustible. [[PSP, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] That is why this House works so well, despite so much bureaucracy and so much work. I would also like to thank you, because it is fair and due, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues. When in October 2015 the NAP entered Parliament as the only Member, for whom it did not know, the Assembly Rules of the Republic were a desert as regards the statutory rights of a single Member and the fulfilment of his mandate. Invariably, many times and many times, to enforce my party's point of view and to be able to exercise our mandate with the legitimacy that the voters gave us, this happened only through the initiative, at the Leaders' Conferences, of the President of the House and of other parties, of course. Finally, I also wanted to leave a special and public thanks, because it is also due and deeply fair, to Pedro Filipe Soares — he is not present here for being a paternity leave — who was, at the time, and continues to be, the parliamentary leader of the Left Block. On the first day of my entry into the Assembly of the Republic, I understood nothing strictly about the legislative process, how everything was going on here — indeed, my opponents continue to say that I still do not understand, but that is another matter. The truth is that the dynamics and bureaucracy of Parliament, for those who are not used to these issues, are in fact complicated, and Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has always been absolutely available to help me integrate them, like all the other colleagues. But he has a place and a special thanks, which he could never stop doing. Thank you all very much. I'm leaving a hug. All the time. [[PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u197	Mr President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u198	Mr Jorge Costa, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u199	Mr President, I would just like to speak to Mr André Silva. The Left Block Parliamentary Group has been mentioned and I would like to thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u200	I did not know that there was, let us say, a special period for this purpose. But please, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u201	Mr President, I would just like to thank you for your words addressed to the Left Block. We also wish you the greatest happiness in your future life.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u202	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then proceed to the vote. We begin with the Vote Project No 577 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by PSD, PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues ) — Despite the death of actress Maria João Abreu, to whom of course I also associate. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u203	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Maria João Abreu, an extraordinary woman, with a talent in the art of representing, died last day 13, at the age of 57, following a brain aneurysm. during 38 years of professional life, Maria João Abreu, one of the most famous Portuguese actresses of the present day, performed unforgettable roles in theatre, cinema and television. His debut occurred when he was 19 years old, in 1983, as an actress in the musical Annie, of Thomas Meehan, directed by Armando Cortez, at the Teatro Maria Matos, having followed many other performances that led her to step different stages, from the Mayer Park to the Politeama. Maria João Abreu never left the theatre or the magazine, one of her great passions, but it was the television that gave her greater visibility and popularity, having participated in several televisions, series and soap operas, among which Family Doctor, Here there are no living ones, The Family Mata, Salgado Sea, Passion, Major Love and Hit of Lucky. At present, I was working on the telenovela The Serra and the series Patrons Outside, both on recordings and on display at the SIC. In 1998 he founded the producer Toca dos Rapos with the then husband, José Raposo. The company was responsible for successes such as the magazine O troilaré, the troilará and the musical Women to the Power. His last participation in the theatre took place in 2019, when he starred Dream on a summer night, in Tivoli theater, contradicting José Raposo and the son of both Miguel Raposo. In the film he debuted in 1999 with the film António, a boy from Lisbon, by Jorge Silva Melo, following participations in works such as Amo -te, Teresa, by Ricardo Espírito Santo and Cristina Bavivida, Phone me, by Frederico Corado, and The Failure, by João Mário Grilo. More recently, he participated in films such as Call Girl, by Antonio-Pedro Vasconcelos, Florbela, by Vicente Alves do O, The mother is who knows, by Nuno Rocha, and Submission, by Leonardo Antonio. In addition to the enormous legacy that the actress leaves in television, cinema and theatre, Maria João Abreu will always be remembered for her generosity, tolerance and simplicity, recognized by all who have deprived her. at this moment of loss and mourning for Portugal, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deepest regret at the death of Maria João Abreu, addressing the family and friends the most sincere and felt condolences for such great loss. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u204	Mrs. Members are present in the galleries several family members and friends of Maria João Abreu : João Soares, Maria Canto de Abreu, Alexandra Abreu, Ricardo Raposo, Rita Raposo, Carolina Lobato, Sara Soares and José Raposo, to whom the President of the Assembly of the Republic presents the most sincere condolences. Let us then vote on the deliberate part of this regret vote. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] I'm asking for a palm saviour for Maria João Abreu. [[General applause, standing, registering the absence of the CH.]] We continue with the Voting Project No. 581 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by PS ) — I regret the death of Colonel Arnaldo Costeira, who will be read by Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last May 8th, Colonel Arnaldo Carvalhalis of the Coastal Silveira, one of the soldiers involved in the 1974 Crab Revolution and who overthrew the fascist regime of the New State. He was 75 years old and died of prolonged disease. Natural of the parish of Sé, of the municipality of Lamego and Viseu district, Arnaldo Costeira was born on 20 April 1946, having graduated in Military Sciences from the Military Academy in 1963. As an official of the permanent framework, he served three commission services by imposition in 1967 / 68, in Angola, 1970 / 72, in Guinea, and 1974 / 75, in Angola, during the Colonial War. In its service sheet it has 18 praises, of which 11 of the general officer and 2 in combat, possessing the medals of the campaigns of Angola 1967, Guinea 1970 / 72 and Angola 1974 / 75. It was also decorated with silver and gold medals of exemplary behavior, with the medals of military merit of 3. a, 2. a and 1. the classes and the medal of D. Afonso Henriques, army boss, 1. the class. Arnaldo Costeira remained in the history of the Revolution of the Claws as captain of the Movement of Armed Forces for having participated actively in the planning of April 25 and for leading in the early morning of that day the Operational Company of the Infantry Regiment 14, of Viseu, who participated in the operations in Lisbon. his participation at this remarkable moment in the recent history of Portugal wrote and published the book I, Captain of April confess, where he leaves the description of the events that preceded the movement of the captains, all the details of the operations on the ground and important testimonies of the months that followed the overthrow of the regime. He joined the Portuguese Spiritist Movement on 16 October 1976, having participated in the foundation of the Spiritualist Social Association of Viseu, a particular institution of social solidarity, which he has presided since its foundation in that year. He was president of the Portuguese Spiritist Federation between 1999 and 2010. In 2021, on 26 February, he was decorated by the President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, with the Order of Freedom—Grade de Grande-Oficial, who said on that occasion he was carrying out ‘a justice not yet fully rendered’ to the captains of April. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Arnaldo Costaeira and conveys its condolences to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u206	Mrs. Members are present in the galleries several relatives of Colonel Arnaldo Costeira: Nuno Costaeira, Rui Costaeira, Joana Costaeira, Diana Costaeira, João Arnaldo Costeira, to whom I extend my condolences. Let us therefore vote on the deliberate part of this regret vote. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The Voting Project No. 588 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( presented by the PSD ), regretting the death of José Manuel Pinheiro Barradas. Mrs Lina Lopes has the floor to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « It was with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic took knowledge of the death last 24 May of José Manuel Pinheiro Barradas, a historic and self-neutral socialist democrat who dedicated his life to the service of the community and the PSD. I was 74 years old. Born in 1947, in the parish of Urra, Town Hall of Portalegre, José Barradas was a member of the Assembly of the Republic in the Second Parliament, between 1980 and 1983. He was a regional delegate of the Youth Support Fund and of the Portuguese Youth Institute in Portalegre, a region that has never left and where he has developed his entire political journey. As an autoarchic history of Portalegre's PSD, he was elected councillor in 1993, and integrated the Municipal Assembly into various mandates. He also served as Chief of Staff of the President of the Municipal Chamber of Portalegre, in 2002. Throughout his life he remained an active member of the Portalegre PSD, having chaired the District Political Commission and the Portalegre Section Political Commission for several mandates. He was Secretary-General of the São Mamede Tourism Region, founder member of the Open Charter and the UGT — General Workers Union and President of the Robinson Foundation Board of Directors. He started professional activity as a teacher at the National School of Portalegre. José Barradas left, leaving as legacy a vast contribution to his region, the Portalegre PSD and the Portuguese, who represented with dignity in his mandate as a member and in all his local political activity. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic express their deepest sympathy to José Barradas' family and friends for his disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u208	Mrs. Members are present at the gallery several relatives of José Barradas — Vera Barradas Martins, Violeta Barradas Martins, Sandra Barradas, Sofia Santos, Simone Santos — to whom the President of the Assembly of the Republic also presents his condolences. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] I would ask that we keep a minute's silence for the three regrets that we have just adopted. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall proceed with the vote, now voting on the deliberative part of the draft vote No 585 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the National Defence Commission and signed by PS and PSD Members ) — Congratulations on the 100th anniversary of the League of Combatants. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1293 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Hungary. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 1305 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Extension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Investigation Committee to losses registered by the New Bank and charged to the Resolution Fund. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Members, it is now important to vote on a request by the Left Block, asking the Committee on Labour and Social Security to be discharged without a 60-day vote of the Bill No 839 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Strengthens mechanisms to combat forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation, directly responsible the whole subcontracting chain and user companies, as well as managers, administrators and directors. We shall vote on this request. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Members, in the face of this vote, will not generally vote on the bill. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 744 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — In combating the precariousness and promotion of vocational training and qualification of agricultural work. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] Let us now vote on a request submitted by the CFP, asking the Committee on Labour and Social Security to be discharged, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 847 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — confers the nature of the executive title on the final decisions of the Act and amends the procedural regime applicable to labour and social security counter-ordinations by amending Law No 107 / 2009 of 14 September 2009. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Members, having approved the application, shall not, in general, vote on that bill. We will turn to page 5 of the Script, to vote on the Resolution Project No. 1273 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Strengthening of means to combat exploitation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CDS-PP abstentions.]] It is now necessary to vote on four requests submitted by the PCP, the ENP, the BE, and the PSD, below the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, respectively, without a vote of 30 days from the Bills Nos 770 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Change and simplify the legal system of parking and car parking, 776 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Sets out the conditions for the prohibition of camping and parking ( amendment to Article 50 ). the -A of the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May, and republished in Annex to Law No 72 / 2013 of 3 September ), 784 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Revocation of the concept of overnight stay and clarification of parking in the Road Code ( amendment to Articles 48 ). o is 50. the -A of the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May) and 828 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Alter the parking and parking arrangements for motor vehicles ( twenty-first amendment to the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May ). [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Once again, Members will not generally vote on those bills. We turn to Page 8 of the Script and we will vote on the Resolution Project No. 870 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Vale Pharmacy - Extension of support for drug expenditure for needy elderly people. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and abstentions from the PCP and the ENP were approved.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 35 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensure free access to the medicine to users over 65 years of age, chronic patients and families with economic deficiency. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] Let us now vote on two requests submitted by the NAP, respectively, to the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory, without a vote within 60 days of the Drafts of Law No 709 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Amend the environmental impact assessment scheme applicable to the planting of non-autochthonous species under intensive water and establish a prior authorisation scheme applicable to new plantations, for the purpose of amending Decree-Law No 151 - B / 2013 of 31 October and Decree-Law No 73 / 2009 of 31 March and 801 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — The sixth amendment is made to the legal regime of environmental impact assessment, approved by Decree-Law No 151 - B / 2013 of 31 October 2013. [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 821 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — prohibits the use of aircraft for air spraying and restricts the use of jet spray equipment carried in sensitive areas, housing clusters and public roads ( fourth amendment to Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] The general vote of Bill No. 845 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( PCP ) — Environmental Impact Assessment Scheme ( AIncA ) of intensive and superintensive agricultural projects, related industrial activities and non-agricultural uses of RAN soils. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 846 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Amendment to the legal regime for environmental impact assessment ( sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 151 - B / 2013 of 31 October ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 848 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Change the legal regime of the environmental impact assessment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] The general vote of Bill No. 850 / XIV / 2 is followed. a (BE) — Regulates the installation of intensive crops and obliges environmental impact assessments. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PCP abstention.]] Let us now vote for draft resolution No 185 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — By optimizing the process of preventing and punishing environmental infringements [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, a number of votes are followed on amendments to the territorial limits of various frequencies. I don't know if we can vote on some initiatives together...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u209	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u210	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u211	Mr President, to help the economy of our work, we can make the first three votes together, i.e. Bill No 653 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) cannot be voted together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u212	So we can vote together on Bill Nos 619 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 621 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) and 627 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ). Is this it? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there seems to be no consensus. Sometimes things get even more complicated and, therefore, for now, we will vote alone and then, when we can vote together, we will do it. Let us then begin by voting, in general, in the specialty and in the overall final vote, the Bill No. 619 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial limits of the parish of Boivães and of the Union of Freguesias de Castro, Ruivos and Grovelas, of the municipality of Ponte da Barca. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and IL.]] We shall also vote in general in the speciality and in the overall final vote, the Bill No. 621 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial limits of the parish of Nogueira and Silva Dark, of the municipality of Maia, and of the parish of Coronado ( São Romão and São Mamede ), of the municipality of Trofa. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] We will vote, in general, in the expertise and in the overall final vote, the Bill No. 627 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial limits of the Valongo parish of Vouga and the Union of Trofa Fregues, Segadães and Lamas do Vouga, of the municipality of Águeda. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We will vote, in general, in the expertise and in the overall final vote, the Bill No. 653 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial boundaries between the parish of Escapães and the Union of the Freguesias of Santa Maria da Feira, Travanca, Sanfins and Espargo, belonging to the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We will vote, in general, in the expertise and in the overall final vote, the Bill No. 743 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial boundaries of the castle parish of Maia, the municipality of Maia, and the parish of Alvarelhos and Guidões, Wall and Crowned, of the municipality of Trofa. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] We will vote, in general, in the expertise and in the overall final vote, the Bill No. 744 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial limits of the parish of Folgossa, the municipality of Maia, and the parish of Coronado ( São Romão and São Mamede ) and Covelas, of the municipality of Trofa. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 1022 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government protect the Rabelo ship and the naval heritage of the Douro. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 1284 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the safeguard of the Rabelo ship and the naval heritage of the Douro River. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] This diploma falls to 12. the Commission...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u213	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u214	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u215	Mr President, it is only to remember that, as only the draft resolution of the CFP was approved, not lower than the committee, is a final decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. I ask the Services to record this important intervention, to help our work. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 1004 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to convene the National Council of Culture in the context of the pandemic caused by COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 1192 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the preservation of the heritage of the former railway station of Porto-Boavista. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstained.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 1283 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the safeguarding and appreciation of the cultural heritage of the former Boavista Railway Station and the reversal of the contract-promised constitution of surface rights. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstained.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 1220 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government create a strategy to promote the reuse of books and the fight against their destruction and waste. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u217	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u218	Mr. João Oliveira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u219	Mr President, it is to announce a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u220	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for the Resolution Project No 1265 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government comply with the determination of the Assembly of the Republic and submit to this sovereignty body for discussion and vote any capital injection decision in the New Bank. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u221	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u222	Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u223	Mr President, it is only to announce that we wish to make an oral vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u224	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. You shall have the floor for this purpose at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u225	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u226	Mr. João Oliveira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u227	Mr President, it is to indicate that Mr Duarte Alves will make an oral vote on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u228	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The Bureau received the information that the PS also wants to make an oral vote on this last vote. With no further requests, we will continue the vote. We will vote for the Resolution Project No 1266 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends the re-evaluation and strengthening of the Social Network Programme to improve the social response. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 950 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government protect the Fifth of the English. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We will generally vote for Resolution Project No. 1245 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard and enhance the environment and heritage of the Fifth of the English, ensuring its balance with the remaining urban and environmental ecosystem. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 1249 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — By grading the Fifth of the English as a protected landscape. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP and the ENP were rejected.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 1253 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Visa the safeguard of the Fifth of the English as an area of heritage and climate regulation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 1259 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — By requalifying the Quinta dos Inglese as a treeized urban ecosystem. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the ENP abstention.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 1286 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — To safeguard the heritage of the Fifth of the English and the will of the peoples. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 240 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to the elimination of the Snow Port in A28 of the current location. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, IL, Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PS Deputies Anabela Rodrigues, José Manuel Carpinteira and Silvia Torres, votes against the PS and non-registered MPA and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will generally vote for Resolution Project No 1241 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Establishment of social shelter centres for the LGBTQI community +. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We will generally vote for Resolution Project No. 1280 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Establishment of multisectoral support structures of local scope for LGBTI people. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the IL.]] We shall generally vote for Resolution Project No 1288 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — By strengthening local responses to housing and housing access and by guaranteeing the social rights of people in the LGBTQI community + who are in a situation of social, economic and emotional vulnerability. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u229	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u230	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u231	Mr President, it is only to announce that we will present a statement of vote on these last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u232	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 623 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Recommends that the Government ensure the eradication of abusive practices on women in pregnancy and childbirth and conduct a study on the « husband's point ». [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u233	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u234	Mr. João Oliveira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u235	Mr President, it is to announce a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u236	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Culture and Communication on draft resolutions Nos 999 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — To protect cultural heritage from the risks of agricultural and forestry production activities, 1110 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — By safeguarding the archaeological heritage at risk in the field of agricultural and forestry production activities, 1130 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — For the duty to defend and preserve national archaeological heritage in the agricultural field, 1146 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of urgent measures to safeguard the archaeological heritage and 1160 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — By promoting knowledge of archaeological heritage in Portugal, by valuing safeguard and preservation. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u237	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u238	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u239	It is to inform the Bureau that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u240	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The final overall vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on draft resolutions Nos 916 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of specific measures to support the floriculture sector, 1104 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Promotion of a national strategy for the ornamental plants and flowers sector and specific measures to support the sector and 1123 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a campaign to promote the regular consumption of flowers and plants and to create mechanisms to support this activity. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the vote against IL.]] In the overall final vote, we will also vote on the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions Nos 1125 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Measures to preserve habitats and safeguard threatened endemic species and 1252 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — To improve the conservation status of native wildlife in Portuguese territory. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and IL abstentions.]] We are now voting, in the overall final vote, on the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions No 1163 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Implementation of measures for monitoring, depolating and valuing the river Dão and its tributaries and 1232 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — For environmental recovery and depollution of the river Dão sub-basin. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Finally, in the overall final vote, we still have the vote on the final text, presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions Nos 909 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the urgent implementation of measures for the pollution and environmental recovery of the Nabão river basin, 918 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the depollution of the Nabão River, 981 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — By the defense and protection of the Nabão River, 1142 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Against the pollution of the Nabão River, 1186 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take all necessary and urgent measures with a view to resolving pollution in the Nabon River and 1258 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Protect the Nabon River, reduce pollution and recover ecosystems. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We will now give time to the four Members who still have the right to speak for explanations of vote on draft resolution No 1265 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government comply with the determination of the Assembly of the Republic and submit to this sovereignty body for discussion and vote any capital injection decision in the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u241	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u242	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u243	To announce a written vote, Mr President, on this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u244	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. You have the floor, for an oral vote, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the State budget for 2021 a proposal was submitted and approved which everyone understood: the Resolution Fund is not authorized to make a transfer to the New Bank. The Resolution Fund has no money to transfer to the New Bank authorized by the Assembly of the Republic. In order to have a transfer, there must be a amending budget, i.e. the Government must submit an amendment to the budget to the Assembly of the Republic for the Assembly to approve a expenditure of the Resolution Fund. This was what was at stake and all the parties knew what they were voting for. This was the responsibility of the Assembly of the Republic in the face of the doubts raised about State payments to Lone Star, shareholder of the New Bank. The Government did not hesitate to say that it had no intention to comply with the law of the Assembly of the Republic and, therefore, we intend to present a draft resolution that does one thing: write by words what a law that changes the maps already said, so that everyone would understand very well what is in question, that is, there is no money for the New Bank without an authorization from the Assembly of the Republic. The PSD, which at the time voted in favour of the amendment to the conscious State budget of what it was doing today, abstained and, with this abstention, allowed this project to be plunged. And he refrained from saying it — and already said it out there — that he did not know what was at stake, that he did not want it to be voted on after all, he just wanted it to be discussed. Mrs. PSD Members, are here statements by Rui Rio, PSD Member, PSD leader, saying « To approve 400 and such million must come here for a rectification ». That is what the President of the PSD said when he approved the proposal put forward by the Left Block in the Budget. Therefore, they do not now say that they did not know what was at stake — to approve a payment for the New Bank only with a rectification. Now, the PSD has given the saying for not saying, abstained, the proposal has plummeted.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u246	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u247	The government injected money against the law and the PSD, of course, did little of all Portuguese with this change of position today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u248	You have the floor for an oral vote by the CFP, Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u249	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The Government's decision to promote the injection of more than 430 million euros into the New Bank is unacceptable. As the Court of Auditors report well points out, we are talking about public resources, in this case of future public resources which banks will no longer hand over to the State on account of this so-called loan, which is actually an advance in taxes. When the government comes to the idea that this transfer is about bank resources rather than public resources, it is travelling in time. In 2021, after the audit of the Court of Auditors which clearly shows that everything spent on the New Bank is public resources, insisting on this bankruptcy is dishonest. Therefore, the CFP considers that it is necessary to prevent any transfer in 2021. The New Bank cannot continue to be a source of public resources, even more so when it does not even need those resources to meet the capital ratios. But you need to go further, you need not give up any more money, but also go get what you already live there. in this sense, we have already tabled a draft resolution, which will be voted on next week, in which we propose that the Assembly of the Republic, on the one hand, clarify that no more transfers are accepted and on the other hand that it is necessary to move forward with public control. Public control to place the bank at the service of the national economy, families and small businesses. Public control so that the State can appoint administrators who aim not to drain public resources, but to recover the boilers left by the major debtors.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u250	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u251	Public control so that the State can prevent the delivery of millionaire prizes to administrators and bank managers, as has happened in recent weeks. Public control so that, since we pay for it, we can have the bank in the public sphere, at the service of a national development strategy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u252	I have the floor for an oral vote by Mr João Paulo Correia of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The lead of the draft resolution of the Left Block says that the Government has all the conditions in the Council of Ministers to authorize the Resolution Fund to transfer the amount necessary to the New Bank. This amount that the Resolution Fund will transfer to the New Bank, contrary to previous years, will not be on the loan of the State, which will be clear. It will not be the State, it will not be the State budget, it will not be the taxpayers to take the transfer of the Resolution Fund to the New Bank, it will be a set of banks that will lend money to the Resolution Fund and this breaks the procedure of previous years: in previous years it was the State that lent money to the Resolution Fund, this year it will be the banks that lend money to the Resolution Fund. Two conditions were placed on the table at the time of the State Budget for 2021. The first was that it was not the State that lent money to the Resolution Fund. It's accomplished, the banks are lending money to the Resolution Fund. Second undertaking: request an audit of the Court of Auditors. This audit was requested by Parliament, on a proposal from the Socialist Party, and has as its main conclusion that the sale of the New Bank in 2017 saved the public interest because the alternative to the sale of the New Bank was liquidation. It is also clear that the Portuguese State was obliged to sell the New Bank in 2017, could not postpone the sale of the New Bank and the alternative to the sale was a settlement, and the liquidation, as the Court of Auditors said, had far worse consequences for public finances and taxpayers. We learned a few weeks ago in the Commission of Inquiry that liquidation would cost about EUR 24 billion directly and that would be supported by public finances and taxpayers. The sale was the only company that competed and engaged with brakes in the so-called contingent capital mechanism. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u254	I have the floor for an oral vote by Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The vote we are making today is not very different from what we have done in the last State budget and perhaps that explains some of the controversy around it. If you remember, in the last State budget, about a very similar vote, there were some Members of the Madeira PSD who managed to have two different senses of vote within minutes—not even one minute—and there was even one Member, from the Arrival, who managed to have three senses of vote between the night before and the morning following. So when we often complain about the way discussions are held, perhaps we can meditate on how we proceed to these votes. The first thing I want to say about this is something that could be evidence but which, in this debate, clearly is not: the CDS has now voted exactly the same way it had voted at the time of the State budget. And why? Because the subject is exactly the same. From this point of view, there are two facts that stand out. The first is that if at the time of the State Budget we already had reason to consider that the contract that the Socialist Party Government signed with Lone Star was a ruin, now we are quite sure; the second is that we also need to realize that, if at the time we had doubts about whether the contract was being fulfilled or not, now we have a report from the Court of Auditors that says that Lone Star and the New Bank are not — they are not! — to fulfil the contract and that the Resolution Fund is not fulfilling its task of monitoring contractual compliance. The Court of Auditors also makes recommendations for this to be healed and what we know is that there is intention to comply with these recommendations, although it is not yet known whether or not they have been met. Finally, I would also like to point out, because the contracts are to be fulfilled and because we do not want, of course, Parliament to make decisions that turn bad contracts into even worse business, that if an arbitral tribunal—which is the one the Portuguese State has chosen when it has negotiated—to decide that there is no contractual breach because there is no transfer to the New Bank, there will be this transfer with a fine, and with a high fine, and we will not compact with that either. We therefore have no alternative but to keep our vote, which was abstention. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u256	I would just like to point out that, when you say that you have to review voting procedures, this issue was not a technical matter from the Bureau, it was a political issue from a number of parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u257	Mr President, of course! And the conscience of each Member, not of the competence of the President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u258	I remember that plenary. Let's go to the last oral vote. To that end, Mr Alberto Fonseca of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I apologize for my voice. I'll try to be as soon as possible. I would begin by saying that the practical consequence of the adoption of this draft resolution was practically none. We know that the practical consequence of your approval would not solve anything that the Left Block is defending. The draft resolution has two components: the discussion with which we agree, and the vote with which we do not agree, as we discussed in the Committee on Budget and Finance this week.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u260	With a rectifier!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u261	What we think is that the government should not run away from the discussion. We're where we've always been. If the Government brings a amending budget here to the Assembly, we will be here and assume our responsibilities. What we do not accept, and we cannot agree, is that the government will pay first and then explain. What we want is to explain that the invoice is indeed due and after that it can be proved, yes, pay. The decision of the Government is deeply regrettable, because it does not allow us to do this here in the House before the decision of the Minister of State and Finance that we have already taken, which we regret. Unfortunately we are not very surprised, but for some of the former partners, or partners, of the Socialist Party here, in the Assembly, it may be more surprising. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of BE, PCP and PEV.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u262	We are thus at the end of our agenda. Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has several quick announcements to make. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u263	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Resolution Projects No. 1299 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1300 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1301 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 4. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u264	Thank you, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Before the end of the sitting, it is still necessary to announce the agenda for the plenary session next Tuesday, 1 June. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the session will start at 14 a.m. and 30 minutes. the first item contains an urgent debate required by the PSD under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, on the subject of correction of an injustice in access to European funds. The second point follows the assessment of Petition No 47 / XIV / 1. a ( Together by the southwest ) — The Natural Park of the Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina can't take more intensive agriculture! , together with, in general, the Bills Nos 756 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Update of the characterization and diagnosis of the state of protected areas and design approval regime and 835 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Establish the measures to be taken with urgency for the updating and compliance of the Plan of Management of the Natural Park of the Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina ( POPNSACV), providing for the immediate and provisional suspension of new intensive or superintensive agricultural facilities in the Natural Park, and the Resolution Projects Nos 243 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government that the conditions of agricultural workers in the Perimeter de Rega do Mira be adapted to the fundamental principles patented in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, 695 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Prevent the expansion of greenhouses and intensive agricultural crops, in general, in the perimeter of Rega do Mira - Natural Park of the southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina, and 820 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the recovery of the biodiversity of the South-West Alentejan and Costa Vicentina natural park and the ecological transition of agriculture from the Mira water perimeter. At the third point we will proceed to the examination of Petition No 95 / XIV / 1. a ( Platform for Dance Schools in Portugal ) — Opening of dance schools - support and measures, together with Resolution Projects Nos 865 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Adaptation of the rules of confinement to the specificities of dance schools, 871 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Dance support measures, 910 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure the adoption of measures to support dance schools, 925 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Requalification of the National Conservatory and valorization and defense of artistic education at the School of Music and at the School of Dance, 926 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Support for dance schools due to mandatory closure for the COVID-19 pandemic, and 933 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends the urgent conclusion of the works to re-qualify the building of the National Conservatory. of the fourth point is the assessment of Petition No 127 / XIV / 2. a (Andreia Sofia da Costa Raposo Marques et al.) — Power of choice for parents/in charge of education between teaching at home online and face-to-face education. At the fifth point we shall proceed to the examination of Petition No 87 / XIV / 1. a ( Hugo Alexandre Trindade et al.) — Reposition of the Fraguesia of the Lady of Time and Reposition of the Freguesia of São Mamede de Infesta. At the sixth point, the assessment of Petition No 110 / XIV / 1 is scheduled. a ( APDASC - Portuguese Association for the Development of Sociocultural Animation ) — Professional Status of the career of sociocultural animator, together with, in general, the Bill No 649 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recognizes and regulates the professional status of socio-cultural animation. In the seventh and final point we will proceed to the examination of Petition No 111 / XIV / 1. a ( Francisca Meleças de Magalhães Barros et al.) — Approval of the victim status for children inserted in the context of domestic violence, together with, in general, the Bills No. 630 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthen the protection of children and young people who live in the context of domestic violence or who witness it, 713 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Altera the General Regime of the Child Protection Process strengthening the right of children to effective participation in decisions concerning them, 849 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecration of victim status for children who witness the practice of domestic violence or who live in the context of domestic violence and 853 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Recognizes the victim status of minors living in the context of domestic violence or testimony. So we have completed our work. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u265	Mr President, just to correct a sense of vote, which does not alter the final result. On page 28 of the Script, in the vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on draft resolutions Nos 916 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) - Recommends to the Government the adoption of specific measures to support the floriculture sector, 1104 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) - Promotion of a national strategy for the ornamental plants and flowers sector and specific measures to support the sector and 1123 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) - Recommends that the Government undertake a campaign to promote the regular consumption of flowers and natural plants and to create mechanisms to support this activity, I voted in favour but the sense of vote of the NAP is abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-28.u266	It is recorded, Mrs Deputy, although it does not alter the final meaning of the vote. With this correction, we will finish our work. Thank you so much for everyone and until the week. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 6 minutes.]]
