ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let's start our plenary meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] Before we get to the agenda, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, Secretary of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic, to give some information to the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u2	Mr President, I greet all Members and all Members. Members and I shall announce an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members on the waiver of the term of office of Deputy Sandra Cunha, of the Parliamentary Group of the Block of the Left, elected by the electoral circle of Setúbal, being replaced by Diana Vanessa of the Holy Conception, of the same electoral circle. It states the opinion that « the resignation of Mrs Sandra Mestre of Cunha fulfils the legal requirements and is replaced by Diana Vanessa of the Conceição Santos, from 14 April 2021, including ».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on this opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please continue, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, also announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bill No. 796 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) and Resolution Projects Nos 1197 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and 1198 / XIV / 2. a ( IL). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u5	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u6	To what effect, Mr. André Ventura?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u7	Mr President, I apologize for this interruption before the beginning of the agenda, but I would like to make use of the agenda for the plenary in accordance with Rule 59(5) and (6). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. I would like to ask Mr President to explain the reasons for this appeal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u8	I only ask for one moment, Mr. [[Pause.]] All right, Mr André Ventura, Article 59 (5). the Rules of Procedure give you this possibility. Therefore, you can explain your reasons for two minutes and there will be no debate on this matter. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the Conference of Leaders was scheduled for today the evaluation of Bill No. 250 / XIV / 1. a (BE), concerning crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of the incapable person. The Arrival presented two projects on this subject, one of them related to the increase of criminal frameworks in relation to rape, the consecration of crime with its public nature and not with the nature it has today, and also Bill No. 711 / XIV / 2. a, which has not been admitted by the Bureau. This last bill amends the Penal Code in its Article 164. the, and consecrates not only the increase of criminal frameworks, but also the public nature of the crime and the chemical castration for rapists. We understand that 1. the Commission, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, has every right to promote and issue its opinion on this matter. Nevertheless, the Bureau rejected the draft, which has a very clear connection to the subject. What is at issue here, Mr President, is not whether or not we agree with the chemical castration for rapists, it is the right that the Bureau has — today, Mr President is in place of the President of the Assembly of the Republic, Dr. Ferro Rodrigues — to reject a project by 1. the Commission considers it unconstitutional. A 1. the Commission is not the Constitutional Court. One day, 1. the Commission will have another composition, other than the one it has today, as a result of the natural change of parliamentary standards, and it would be very disparaging for this Parliament than that 1. the Commission, within two years, of this other opinion to say that this project can be constitutional. What is currently under discussion is not whether we are in favour or against the chemical castration of pedophiles or rapists, it is if we admit that two years ago, projects that have been considered unconstitutional, because they violate the brake norm, could go up to the plenary, but that today, projects considered unconstitutional, because they violate the dignity of the penalties considered in our Constitution, they can no longer go up to the plenary. What I am asking this plenary does not have to do with the substance of the matter, but only and exclusively with the fact that 1. the Commission — and I shall conclude, Mr President — to see that projects can be discussed here because they are unconstitutional, wrongly replacing the Constitutional Court. That is what I call for the plenary to vote before the beginning of the agenda. Thank you, Mr. President, for your tolerance. Mr President ( José Manuel Pureza ) ; — Thank you very much, Mr. I believe that the statement made by Mr Ventura shows precisely what is at stake and what was the basis of the decision by the President of the House of the Republic on this matter. There is a disagreement on the part of the honourable Member, who therefore has every right to put the matter to the plenary. And that's what we're gonna do right away. I shall then put to the vote the appeal by Mr Ventura of the decision of the President of the Assembly of the Republic not to accept a legislative initiative of the Arrival on the first item on our agenda. Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u10	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u11	Please, Mr. Deputy. I'm asking you to be brief.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u12	I shall be very brief, Mr President. I just want to inform you that we will deliver a vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u13	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u14	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. We shall present a statement of vote to clarify the reasons for our vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u15	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u16	Mr President, it is also for the same purpose. We shall present a statement of vote to make clear the reasons for our abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u17	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u18	Mr President, our position is public, but since other banks will present statements of vote, we will also do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u19	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u20	Mr President, I also want to announce the delivery of a statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u21	It is also duly registered, Mrs. Having said that, thank you for the information provided by all Members and by all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, let us get on the agenda. The first point is the discussion of a large set of initiatives, which are as follows: Bill No. 250 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Consecrates crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of a person unable to resist as a public crime ( the forty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code), 720 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Measures to protect victims of domestic violence within the framework of labour, social security and housing rights (no amendment to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of their victims, approved by Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 and the second amendment to the scheme to grant compensation to victims of violent crimes and domestic violence, approved by Law No 104 / 2009 of 14 September ) and 701 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Consecrates crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of a person unable to resist as public crimes, which will be discussed in general; of Resolution Projects Nos. 951 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Measures to prevent and combat domestic violence and 1058 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 62 / 2019 and ensure the adoption of a code of conduct adapted to the Istanbul Convention, with a view to adequate news coverage of cases of domestic violence and preventing an expected contagion effect; petition No 8 / XIV / 1. a ( Collective Women of Braga ) — Stop killing us; and also, in general, of Law Projects No. 648 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the Penal Code, including economic or heritage violence in domestic violence crime, in respect of the Istanbul Convention, 702 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the Penal Code, assigning the nature of public crime to crimes against sexual freedom and self-determination, 768 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates the nature of public crimes of threats and coercion crimes, adapting them to the crime of domestic violence ( fifty-third amendment to the Criminal Code), 771 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Consecrates the public nature of the crimes of rape, sexual coercion, sexual fraud, sexual abuse of a person unable to resist and artificial procreation and extends the limitation of crimes against the sexual freedom and self-determination of minors and the crime of female genital mutilation by amending the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, and 772 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — An amendment to the Criminal Code is made, assigning the nature of public crime to crimes of sexual coercion, rape and sexual abuse of a person unable to resist, ensuring compliance with the Convention of the Council of Europe for the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence ( Istanbul Convention ). To present the legislative initiatives of the Left Block, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have brought to this debate two proposals which we consider to be decisive in combating gender-based violence against women and in promoting the autonomy of victims of domestic violence. Let us begin with the amendment of the Criminal Code to convert the crime of rape as a public crime. Rape manifests itself as one of the most extreme forms of oppression and domination of women and constitutes an attack on women's human rights, their physical and emotional integrity, their freedom and sexual self-determination. Dispose them of their humanity, object to them, as if they were objects of use by third parties for the entertainment and pleasure of others. It leaves, most of the time, deep wounds for the rest of your life. Statistics give us the numbers of reality, but they do not translate it completely. Those on the ground tell us that numbers fall far short of the actual cruelty. According to the Annual Report on Internal Security ( RASI ), the crime of rape is the fourth with more participations among crimes associated with violent and serious crime. The same report reveals that the defendants are mostly men and that they are mostly relatives or acquaintances of the victims. These data indicate that the majority of the aggressors are part of the family relations or proximity of the victims, contrary to the belief that the crime of rape is mostly committed by strangers. This is therefore a crime where the aggressor's descent on the victim and power relations are particularly intense. That is why, often, the victim does not complain, and there are several reasons for this to happen: the state of shock, fear, depression, shame, denial, thinking that everyone will think the guilt was theirs. The feeling that everyone, including justice, will point his finger at him makes the overwhelming majority of the victims not complain.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u24	Now rape is a semi-public crime, which means it depends on the victim's complaint, and this has to do within a maximum of six months. The Public Prosecutor may act, provided he is aware of the facts, but in practice it is rare for such to happen. Although police and civil servants are obliged to report such crimes and any person can do so on their own initiative, no investigation is opened without the victim submitting a complaint. The consequence is that we leave the victims alone, give them to themselves, without support and with responsibility all over them. If the violation was a public crime, it was sufficient for the judicial and police authorities to have an investigation, combating impunity in which many crimes remain and, irrespective of the will of the parties, the trial was even going to the end. This is also a claim of over 60,000 people who have signed a public petition on 10 March this year. Approximately 1000 people a day, who have signed this petition, ask the Assembly of the Republic to take the measures necessary to transform the violation into a public crime and also that anyone can denounce it. Making the violation of public crime does not mean having automatic convictions or no defence rights through any accusation, only means that, after the facts have been resolved, if the Public Prosecutor understands that there are grounds for prosecution, it is presented, irrespective of the will of the victim, in a judgment similar to what took place for domestic violence. We need to strengthen the idea that rape and sexual coercion are matters that cannot go unnoticed and that this is a responsibility of the entire community. Like the crime of domestic violence, this cannot be considered a crime in the private forum. The Left Block also presents an initiative that proposes a modification of the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims and the strengthening of labour rights, social security support and access to housing. One of the main factors that conditions the complaint by victims of domestic violence and which limits the courage to end the relationship with violence is the lack of autonomy, whether financial or economic, in terms of housing. A victim who is not autonomous is conditioned in his prospects for the future and in his choices ahead. Without home where you live and without enough income, you end up, too often, by maintaining for years a relationship of violence, domination or humiliation or by reacting to the relationship when the choice is limited to a future of foster homes, without employment and without income. If there are children, these conditions weigh even more. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the promotion of the autonomy of victims of domestic violence, ensuring that the choice does not have to be made between going to empty, to the streets, to poverty and social exclusion or remaining in a relationship of violence, in an abusive relationship. This requirement is even more pressing in the context of the pandemic, of the social and economic crisis we face and which we know has the consequence of disproportionately penalizing those who are part of a disadvantage situation and further deepening inequalities. The Left Block presents this initiative to respond to this need and strengthen the autonomy of victims of domestic violence, contributing to decisions that are not handled by lack of options. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u25	We continue with the presentation of the initiatives under consideration. I now give the floor to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The denunciation of the crime of rape is often hampered by the trauma inflicted on the victims and by the emotional fragility that ensues. The APAV ( Portuguese Victim Support Association ) describes this obstacle in an elucidative way: "The fact that we are faced with such a delicate core of personal privacy, the fear of being discredited or discredited by the judicial system, support structures and even by the family itself, the social devaluement of sexual violence, often linked to the guilt of the victim himself or the partial deresponsibility of the aggressor, and the fact that often the crime occurs within a relationship of intimacy or family proximity". According to the Annual Internal Security Report for the year 2020, about 2 / 3 of the violations involved were committed by relatives or acquaintances of the victims. Therefore, it is not understood that the initiation of criminal proceedings is dependent on the victim's complaint or discretionary assessment of the Public Prosecutor's interest. What the Liberal Initiative intends, with this proposal, is that the crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of a person unable to resist become public crimes and that start to follow the path that began in the fight against sexual violence: that of ensuring the victim who is not alone carrying the heavy burden that this crime represents in his life. We do not ignore that, in these crimes, the privacy sphere of the victim is severely and severely affected. It is therefore necessary to reconcile the non-victimization of the victim of the crime, on the one hand, with the guarantee that the process is not blocked by fear of repercussions or reprisals, or by lack of support from society and, in particular, from public entities. The proposal of the Liberal Initiative therefore envisages, and in the same way as the crime of domestic violence, that the victim may require the provisional suspension of the proceedings. The system thus establishes a "escape valve" which enables the victim, if he so wishes, not to be exposed to the trial phase. We are aware of the opinions that have been issued on this initiative. in them it is found that, even if anyone disagrees with the solution we propose, he does not disagree that we have a problem. That is why it is so important that there is debate on this matter and that this can happen in the field of expertise. For this to happen, we have already called for the resignation of our committee, without a vote, of our bill, for what we expect your support.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u27	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The crime of domestic violence continues to be very prevalent in our society, resulting in a very large number of victims. Despite the legislative and operational advances that have been implemented, the truth is that the crime of domestic violence continues to have a very significant weight within crime in general. From 2018 to 2019, there was an increase in this type of crime by 10 %, as reported in the Annual Internal Security Report. If these data are compared to 2010, the year in which more domestic violence crimes occurred, there is an increase of more than 3015 cases in 2019. These are numbers that have to deserve the effective concern of the whole society. In 2020, and now in 2021, with the COVID-19 pandemic and with the mandatory collection at home, there is a legitimate fear that cases of domestic violence will grow or intensify substantially since the isolation conditions have implications for psychological fatigue and compulsory permanent (with) experience of the aggressor with the victim. We know that the victims are mainly women, the largest number of cases are of crime committed by the spouse or companion, but the victims are also, above all, female when committed against children and the elderly. It is precisely this preponderance of victims in women that the Istanbul Convention takes into account when it states that « the structural nature of violence against women is based on gender and that violence against women is one of the crucial social mechanisms by which women are forced to assume a position of subordination ». I now take advantage of the more than 8,000 petitioners who have signed the petition « Stop killing us! "which also has as its central element the number of femicides and which, once again, asks this House to look at these crimes in the sense of trapping. The assumption of domestic violence crime as a public crime in 2010, seeking to generate confidentiality and aid of proximity to the victim, the creation of a network of shelters and the formation of security forces professionals for the specific subject of domestic violence, among many other issues, demonstrate that they are deeply relevant. There are, however, issues that the Greens believe must be strengthened so that this heinous crime, which takes absolute care of human rights, will be combated. One of the fundamental issues, and because we are talking about a question that persists throughout all generations, is the way in which domestic violence is dealt with in schools. The school is a privileged place to generate, in the present and future generations, zero tolerance in relation to domestic violence and to raise awareness of what domestic violence is, indeed, since many people do not, in their perception of domestic violence crime, what it truly is, such as threats, psychological aggression, a stellar, a push, among others. In addition, the persistence of warning and awareness campaigns is crucial in order to enable victims to know of the aid that may be provided to them, that the aggressors have no doubt that they are committing a crime and that society in general has the notion that it is a public crime to which no one should close their eyes. The problem of domestic violence still requires a considerable set of measures to be adapted and taken, such as the presentation of a report to the Assembly of the Republic detailing how domestic violence is addressed in schools, at different levels of education, and promoting a campaign to prevent domestic violence, while measures to prevent and combat COVID-19, to make clear its nature as a public crime and human rights violation, as well as forms of aid to victims of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u29	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In France, Camille Kouchner denounced the abuse that his brother, then 14 years old, was target within his own family. The abuse lasted about two years. This complaint has pushed thousands of other complaints across the country, giving rise to the #MeTooIncest campaign. one of them could read: “I was five years old(...) and one night my mother’s brother destroyed my innocence and blackened the rest of my days. In the space of a second I did 100 years». «My father told me - it was normal to find out how your daughter's body was developing», read in another comment. All these complaints had in common the fact that they referred to crimes of abuse of minors committed within the family circle, which had been to be punished and which had been prescribed for a long time. In any case, this campaign, beyond raising awareness of this scourge and giving many people the courage to denounce the terrible abuses that they have been victims, opened a debate in France on the adequacy of the prescription regime for these crimes. This story was in France, but could be in Portugal. The Association Breaking the Silence tells us that men who, in children or young people, were victims of this kind of abuse only denounce the crime and seek help within 20 years after the abuse, finding most men at home 35 to 40 years old, having their lives guided by the marks of these abuses and rape. This is very worrying because, in the current legal framework, although prescription never occurs before the victim perpetuates 23 years, these crimes are prescribed, in some cases decades ago. The crimes against the freedom and sexual self-determination of minors and the criminal process associated with them are extremely traumatic for the physical and psychological victim, which leads to the fact that in more than 63 % of cases the revelation of these crimes occurs at least one year after abuse — I repeat at least one year after abuse! That is, most of the time more years have passed! The reasons are multiple, including the victim's relationship with the aggressor or aggressor, the non-perception of the facts as a crime paying attention to the tender age of the victim, self-indictment, lack of evidence, lack of confidence in the judicial system, the social or family network, situations of accommodation syndrome and, of course, humiliation and shame. The last structural change to the rules governing the prescription of these crimes we had in Portugal occurred in 2007. After 14 years, it is more than urgent to ensure a legal framework capable of protecting these victims. It is necessary to ensure that the victim in our country feels emotionally prepared for the revelation of the crime or, for example, to deal with all aspects related to the follow-up of the process itself which will then be expounded. That is why the NAP proposes an amendment of these rules so that the criminal procedure will never be extinguished before the victim reaches 40 years when the victim is under 14 years and never before 20 years or the victim reaches 35 years when the victim is over 14 years. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a point of arrival, but a point of departure for a debate which this Parliament must have on behalf of social progress and the defense of victims of child abuse. This is an unacceptable reality in our day that, as elected and elected, we cannot continue to ignore and that we do not want to expect the norms of the Criminal Code to be harmonized in crimes of rape with another type of crime when we do not yet have a judicial system prepared to hear, monitor and support the victims, in particular the most vulnerable or young victims. in this debate, the NAP, continuing the advances given in the previous legislation, brings the discussion of two other proposals that aim to ensure the full implementation of the Istanbul Convention in our country, strengthening the protection of victims of crimes against sexual self-determination. On the one hand, we want all crimes against sexual freedom to be considered public crimes. It is not a question of attempting to indiscriminately pursue the offender, since the crime will be investigated in accordance with the general rules of criminal prosecution and the guarantees granted to the defence. It is also not a matter of obstinately prevailing Community interest in the prosecution of the victim's will, since the NAP, following the APAV recommendations, provides for an escape valve which, allowing the victim to give voice and value his/her will, ensures the possibility of the victim always requiring the filing of the process. However, we cannot fail to comply with what is a common and collective wish: to simplify and reduce the practice of these crimes by fully fulfilling Articles 18. o, paragraph 4, and 55. paragraph 5 of the Istanbul Convention and strengthen the general means of preventing and raising awareness of these crimes. Even yesterday, the United Nations Population Fund made public that 55% of girls and women globally cannot and do not have the power to make decisions about their own body as regards their sexual self-determination.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u31	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u32	I really am concluding, Mr President. Portugal is not immune to this phenomenon, so no less important than this legislative amendment is the implementation of a code of conduct that ensures adequate coverage of cases of domestic violence. In conclusion, we take advantage to greet the Collective Women of Braga and the more than 8,000 people who have mobilized to give voice to the victims and we call on the other political forces to accompany us in this change that has long been required in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u33	For an intervention, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have less than an hour to discuss 10 legislative initiatives and a petition on one of the biggest scourges in our society — violence against women. When a woman does not report a situation of sexual abuse or violence, the State has failed. Whenever a victim stops complaining about not believing in justice or stigma, the state has failed. And it fails with that person and with all the others who might come to be victims as well. If we are concerned about protecting the victims, saving them from exposing their privacy in the process, being confronted with improper issues, with the stigma of society, then we will work to find solutions. The proposal of the Liberal Initiative, for example, provides for the possibility of provisional suspension of the case at the request of the victim. In addition, we ensure, in time, that the victim's lawyer, psychological support, a fair and speedy trial, safeguard his physical integrity, make use of the mechanisms available, such as statements for future memory, sensitize police, judges and prosecutors. Ultimately, confidence in the judicial system is restored. The solution cannot be to invite the victims to silence to avoid them more uncomfortable. The best way to protect victims and society is to get the aggressors out of the streets. Of course, victims have the right to privacy, but more than that, they have the right to sexual freedom. We are not protecting the victim by leaving solely in his hand the responsibility of triggering a criminal process against the attacker, even in such a short period of time, up to six months after a highly traumatic event. We cannot allow the idea that what happened to that person only concerns it when it is a crime against society. For all this, sexual crimes must be public crimes. The culture of rape exists and finds support in our laws. As it is, the law does not protect the victim, protects the aggressor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u35	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Although we are discussing these initiatives as a common subject, we have a relatively broad set of subjects here, i.e. the various diplomas under discussion are not limited to the issue of crime of rape, they are not limited to the issue of domestic violence, and in some cases they are more relevant to their direct impact than others, they address communication, disclosure and the treatment of public opinion in this matter. On behalf of the CDS, I would like to say from the outset that the phenomenon of domestic violence and these crimes in general, practised in this context, are not only crimes of enormous gravity as they are crimes that have become increasingly important and serious in our legal order and in our society. Moreover, until this past year, domestic violence has always grown and is one of the most serious crimes. Interestingly, the figures in the last RASI do not reflect this trend, but we also know, and it is very obvious to everyone, that this RASI has already been done in pandemics. Therefore, in pandemics, it is normal that this crime does not have the same exposure because, obviously, it is also, as it were, confined or closed within doors, which may also indicate to us — worryingly, but without doing so any judgment in relation to the actions of the authorities — including the existence of a black figure, a hidden figure, of sexual coercion and other such crimes. It is worth saying, moreover, that it is a cross-sectional crime, it has several types of authors, it is practised in various circumstances and — and this is how we put it — 76% of the victims of women. in some cases, they may be children, they may be men, but 76% of the victims are women and more than 80% of the aggressors are men. So it is with this data that we are dealing with in our society. How does the CDS enter this debate? We are bringing to today's debate a proposal which basically aims to ensure that coerce crimes and threat crimes are also considered public crimes. Why? Because, often, these crimes of threats and coercion are a history of other more serious crimes, domestic violence, abuse or even violence and, in some cases, homicides. There are cases in which, initially, threats are repeated and are not classified as domestic violence crimes, they are classified as less serious crimes, only threats and coercion. And sometimes because they depend on complaint, these threats and coercion crimes are filed. And then what happens? Finally, we have serious domestic violence crimes and we have serious homicide crimes. So this is our contribution, on the assumption that more is needed, on the assumption that what exists is not enough and is not enough to combat this phenomenon. The same is said of the other projects under discussion, particularly in relation to the petition — obviously complimenting its proponents — which is an important petition in the context of domestic violence and how much can be done to combat this phenomenon and this scourge. But with regard to the various projects under discussion, I would say that they deserve to be discussed. It is clear that not everyone is legally consensual. I note that our proposals have a favourable position, for example, of the Advocates' Order, which undoubtedly corresponds to the assumptions and intentions of the Istanbul Convention — I think that it must be fully implemented in our legal order, it is important to have it — but there are cases of projects that raise some doubts because, from semi-public crime to the public, some people now understand that the possibility of intervention by the Public Prosecutor in the interests of the victim would already be sufficient. However, I think it is a weighting that has to be done, that has to be done, and that is a matter that we will not impermiss. I think it is worth discussing all these projects in the field of specialty and, with common sense and with the best of them, build the best possible solution. This is the CDS position. That is how we address this debate, assuming that everything we do to combat these crimes of rape, sexual coerce, child abuse and domestic violence will be little. It is therefore useful for us to do more from that point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u37	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u38	We live in societies of male institutional domination, which tolerate violence against women and girls and constantly relativize and deresponsibility to men, violent masculinities and aggressors. It must be remembered that this is precisely why we have to ensure that no woman, no victim facing the social system and the judicial system alone. We need to change the Criminal Code so that crimes of sexual coercion, rape and sexual abuse are public crimes, because rape is not an isolated incident and is neither an incident of the private sphere, and, at least, a matter of women, for women to relate to it throughout their existence. We need to understand that rape is the reflection of transversal values of a patriarchal society that oppresses and subjugates, centuries and centuries ago, women. We also need to understand that the eradication of sexual violence is necessary, not as something that will help women, but as something that is of national interest, as a necessary civilizational advancement. We must also remember that we must respect our international conventions, and the Istanbul Convention precisely reflects this need. I repeat: we cannot accept that no woman alone faces the social and judicial system characterized by hegemonic masculinity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u39	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Monica Quintela of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We salute the 8098 subscribers of the petition « Stop killing us! », to whom we congratulate in the person of Mr. President of the Braga Women Association. The PSD has always been on the front line of fighting the heinous domestic violence crime and is well aware of the petitioners' call for alertness: that no more women are cowardly murdered! It is worth saying that we are concerned about the black figures in which, because of the pandemic and the inherent confinement of victims with the aggressors, it was not possible to complain to the authorities, masking the numbers of victims at an apparent decline in this crime. Enabling the 2020 RASI, we saw that the number of domestic violence participations decreased compared to 2019, although it was still the most prevalent crime type. The figures show that the complaint mechanisms created to help the victims in confinement are not effective, and it is urgent to know the real values in order to correct the measures implemented. The European Commission has urged Member States to pay attention to the protection and support of victims of domestic violence within the framework of their national emergency regimes to contain COVID-19, considering that the situation of these victims is aggravated by social distance and isolation during confinement periods. Specifically, it is essential that victims get access to social support and psychological assistance. When closed with the aggressor, the home is not a safe place. It is important to ensure the physical protection of victims and, in particular, that of particularly vulnerable victims such as children and elderly persons. Therefore, it is very important to communicate with the victims during the pandemic, raising awareness among health professionals and other workers that they are particularly attentive and able to provide information on complaints channels and requests for help. Social communication has warned of the brutal escalation of domestic violence during the pandemic in Europe and the rest of the world. The same alert has been made by the UN ( United Nations ), which has spoken of « shadow pandemic », meaning that outside victims are getting access to the means of complaint and aid, which is not happening in Portugal. of the various measures implemented in Europe, we have found that, unfortunately, Portugal has little done. We also see that police forces and the Public Ministry, despite the recent creation of SEIVD (Integrated Sections of Domestic Violence), are not yet sufficiently alert to the complexity of these crimes and continue to devalue the actual risk of victims. Just see the slightness with which the inquiries of witnesses and other inquiries are made in many of our teams. There is still a lack of specialized training for criminal investigation to deal with the phenomenon of domestic violence. Resocialization programmes for aggressors continue to be lacking, so as to avoid recurrence and protect victims. We know that the crisis, in particular the economic crisis we also live in, boosts domestic violence, making the victims even more vulnerable. Without prejudice to any improvement to the law, we recall that economic and property violence, as can be seen in this context, is already included in the type of Article 152. that of the Criminal Code, so the proposed amendment to this article is limiting the existing protection, and the psychological ill-treatment includes the economic damage or damage to objects, as results from the multiple decisions made by our courts. On the other hand, the proposed amendment to Article 31. that of Law No 112/2009 directly contains with the various regimes provided for in the Civil Code to regulate the various heritage situations, which is why we cannot accept it. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a fight must be waged without hindrance to domestic violence. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, stop killing us! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u41	To speak the next speech, Mrs Cláudia Santos of the Socialist Party has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : of the initiatives currently under discussion, six have the common intention of transforming crimes against sexual freedom or against personal freedom into public crimes, i.e. crimes such as rape, sexual coercion or the threat which today are semi-public. All these initiatives are based on the same assumption: for the victims it would be better for these crimes to be public. But why would it be better? This question is a sign of great perplexity, especially when adult victims are involved, as is the case with the hypotheses provided for in these bills. It is worth repeating: if crime is public, criminal proceedings may exist against the will of the victim. And we ask, therefore, the following: why is it better for the victim that crime is public when, in a public crime, the will of the State overrides the will of the victim? In view of this, it would be counter-argumentary that the adult victims of these crimes do not have true freedom of choice and that, if they could choose, they would always want their aggressors to be tried and convicted. However, in those cases where the victim has an interest in the existence of the criminal proceedings, but does not complain, because he is coagated or intimidated, it happens that the Public Prosecutor may already establish the criminal proceedings informally in accordance with Article 178 ( 2 ). the Penal Code, thus since 2015. These initiatives only make sense, therefore, assuming that this safety valve does not arrive and believing that criminal proceedings are the best solution for all victims of sexual crimes. But I ask: if we are talking about adult victims—and we are—how can you know what is best for them without asking them? How can we accept such paternalism in relation to adult victims? Do these victims, mostly women, cease to be subordinate to the will of their aggressors, mostly men, and become subordinate to the will of the State? We think we need to ask these adult victims what answers they need the state to give them. First, because the existence of one of these crimes presupposes a non-consensual sexual practice and the existence of dissent only the adult victim may in many cases affirm. Question: Should the mother or father of a 19-year-old be able to denounce the crime of rape that they think your son or daughter was victimized against the will of these? Secondly, we need to ask the victims what they want, because contact with the criminal proceedings can bring them pain they do not want. Although we take measures to avoid secondary victimization, there are moments of criminal proceedings that we cannot avoid, such as the necessarily intrusive medical examination, or the victim's subjection to the contradictory defense of the defendant. Thirdly, I would like to stress that the victim's collaboration is often indispensable for the criminal trial to have some use. A recent study, within the framework of the National Institute of Legal Medicine, concluded that "the absence of physical evidence and secrecy that characterize the vast majority of cases lead to the victim's report being often one of the only evidence". If the victim does not want the criminal trial, imposing it will be worse than useless, it will be another violence. Finally, these crimes should not be public because sexual violence has devastating effects in the medium and long term, and it is deeply wrong to assume that such effects are overcome by the mere imposition of criminal proceedings — pregnancy, infections of reproductive treatment, sexually transmitted diseases. More than 30% of victims of sexual violence suffer from severe depression, have a 13-fold higher risk of suicide, have a 26-fold risk of substance abuse. These victims have multiple needs and must be able to use different formal systems—only about 26 % to 40 % complain to the police; other victims seek medical and forensic support; others still seek support from mental services. We must seek new, more efficient solutions than the old ones, answers given in specialized coordinated centres, as the Council of Europe wants and imposes the Istanbul Convention. in a single space, the victim should be able to be heard, advised and referred to the different answers he needs. We currently have four spaces that offer this coordinated response: the crisis center for victims of sexual violence, in Lisbon, created in 2016 ; the EIR project ( Emancipation, Equality and Recovery ), created in 2018, in Porto ; the CASA project ( Center for Sexually Abused Children) of the Project Create Association, existing in Porto 2020 and destined for minors; the project Break Silence, created in 2017 and for men and boys victims of sexual crimes. We need to deepen this path that this government has begun to follow. There are numerous testimonies of victims of sexual crimes available to anyone who wants to meet them, painful, too many. Some victims say they want the aggressors to be convicted, but many others say something different. Here are some excerpts from what they tell us: "I was raped by two people. My friends called my family and exposed me. I was already under treatment and in frank recovery, they did not listen to me, they did not respect me, because, for them, I was only a patient who could not choose about his own life ; « Please hide my data if a publication of this testimony occurs » ; «I was raped when I was 25, today I am 40. I married and had no children. Anonymity request. Only my psychologist, my ex-husband and he knows about this story ; "I would like to report the abuse I have suffered, but could they keep me anonymous? ; « I do not want my husband to know»; « I ask that, if they are published, they do not mention my name». No victim of a sexual crime that needs medical or psychological help should stop seeking for not wanting to expose himself to a criminal trial. What we want is for all victims of sexual crimes to be heard, those who want criminal proceedings and those who do not want it, but who still need State aid. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u43	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Again, I regret that our project has not been admitted. Mrs Cláudia Santos, I would like to say that it is true that criminal justice has not been consensual in terms of the public nature of these crimes. As you know, I recognize this competence, it is not a peaceful issue in our doctrine, in our universities and, much less, in our jurisprudence. But there is something we must also admit: the regime that exists has not worked. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, it is not the prescription that will resolve the crime of rape. I ask you if you know how many rape crimes have prescribed in the last 20 years. The truth is that this crime should not even be prescribed—it is not because we have established 40, 50 or 100 years to solve this. See the number of cases of sexual crimes prescribed in Portugal! The problem we have in Portugal is the penalty for these crimes. Mr President, if I may, last year, in April, a young man, at the Court of Santa Maria da Feira, was convicted of the crime of rape and a fine of €800. A fine of 1800 €! It is a shame that someone convicted of rape has suspended penalty and pays a fine of 1800 €! In England, a Portugueseman was sentenced to life imprisonment for rape of a woman and, at the same time, in Portugal, a court applied him two years in prison with a suspended sentence.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u45	Mr President, I will ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u46	Mr. President, I will finish. We have a problem of prescription and public nature of these crimes that are questionable, but today Portugal is the only country in Europe because of the penalties it has for sexual crimes. It is about this that we must act, if we have courage.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u47	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u48	Mr. Presidents, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition that today promotes this agenda is about domestic violence, an extremely important issue and on which Mrs Alma Rivera will speak. However, most of the legislative initiatives under discussion are not clearly about domestic violence, but about the allocation of the nature of public crime to sexual crimes against larger and outside the context of domestic violence, since this situation is obviously already covered by law — domestic violence is, as we know, a public crime. In view of this other proposal for consideration as a public crime of other sexual crimes, I believe that we cannot ignore the opinions of 1. the Commission has received from entities who know very well what they are talking about, and I also believe that only through great insensitivity is it possible to ignore these objections. Mrs Cláudia Santos, apparently prepared for 1. the Commission refers to this, but I believe that it is worth mentioning, in plenary, although, briefly, an excerpt from the opinion of the Superior Council of the Magistracy. The opinion reads as follows: “The imposition of the ‘will’ of the State in the revelation of the crime and the criminal persecution of the aggressor, forcing the victim to participate in a process against his will, may cause more harm than those who intend to avoid. Just think that the criminal prosecution of the aggressor can boost the revitalization and have the perverse effect of perpetuating the suffering of the victim and the emerging stigmatization of the publicity of the crime. The violation of the most intimate sphere of personality does not fight by forcing the victim to subject himself to the most violation of his privacy, as if the atrocious crime that he has definitely suffered to deprive of his inalienable good'. The APAV has already been referred to here today. What does APAV write? He writes: "There are still compelling reasons that justify the permanence of the semi-public nature of these legal types of crime. We must not forget that, in order to obtain evidence indispensable to criminal investigation, the victim will be subjected to invasive medical examinations and inquiries that contain its deepest intimacy. The criminal process is therefore, from the victim's point of view, in a process of reviving all the marked episodes experienced, involving their revitalization. The practical experience of daily care for victims of crime tells us that a considerable number of victims of sexual crimes does not wish to denounce the crime or continue with the criminal proceedings, either because they simply want to forget what happened or then avoid going through a public exposure process of their privacy before the judicial and police authorities." The opinion of the Advocates' Order is extremely powerful in challenging the public allocation to this crime and we could, in fact, quote them profusely. What we want to say is that we cannot be insensitive to this and think that it will be with the public allocation to these crimes that it will be possible to better protect victims. There is much evidence that this is not the case and that there are other ways to do so. In view of all this, the CFP will obviously not follow the legislative initiatives presented today on this subject. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u49	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Lina Lopes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we discuss, among several proposals, the bill of the Left Block entitled « Measures to protect victims of domestic violence within the framework of labour rights, social security and housing ». I would like to begin with the end of this bill, within the scope of housing rights, which proposes support for the lease and allocation of a social fire. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD Parliamentary Group realizes the goodness of these support, however, when it proposes - we are admitting that it is the victim who has to leave his home and not the aggressor, then we are dealing with the aggressor and doublely penalizing the victim of domestic violence, as well as the children, if they exist. We'll all have to be able to reverse this way of acting. Whoever has to get out of the house is the aggressor! The Left Block has also proposed strengthening of labour rights and social security support. when analyzing the proposals, it seems to us that there are several questions that may lead to impossibility on the part of the employer. The employer has to be subject to the job reserve in the case of suspension of the employment contract and, on the other hand, there must be reintegration of the worker, victim of domestic violence, under pre-existing conditions at the time of suspension. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in accordance with the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, this request for the suspension of the employment relationship subject to the job and termination of the contract of employment by lodging a complaint is in conformity with the procedure laid down in Article 195. that of the Labour Code and also with the general arrangements for suspending the work contract provided for in the Labour Code. On the other hand, Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 establishing the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims, already provides for various social support measures for victims, in particular in the workplace, in Articles 41. o 43. o -A is 43. o-B. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the law is not perfect, but already provides for measures to support victims of domestic violence in the work area, in particular the shift of the job to part-time or full-time, in accordance with the interests of the victim, transfer at the request of the worker or even the right to suspend the employment contract due to the impossibility of transfer by the employer. With regard to support for the lease, the law in force in Article 45 thereof. the, also provides support for the lease. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the extension of the period of family restructuring, consider the PSD Parliamentary Group to be worthy of our consideration of its enlargement. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u51	The next intervention will be by Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias of BE. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by stressing that, living in a patriarchal society, as is the one in which we live, we cannot in any circumstances separate the consequences of our socialization from the damage and the effects it has on individuals and people. Therefore, we cannot say that making the crime of rape a public crime is to disrespect the autonomy of the victim. What we're saying in repeating these kinds of ideas is that the victim is responsible for being the target of the crime he was subjected to, and that's not acceptable! We need to change the way we analyze this crime and we need to recognize that the patriarchal violence in Portuguese society has an effect on people, whether on people who commit crimes — this is eminently a crime of violence on women — but also on how the crime is perceived and on the ability that the victim has to, within a short time, which is the six months that the law provides, to complain. We must, then, create mechanisms that can protect the victim, give the assurance that there is a general condemnation of society in relation to this behaviour and that it is not alone, that society is all by its side to, if it is unable to do so, be able to complain and be able to protect it from that situation. Therefore, the argument that it is paternalism to consider rape public crime leads us to wonder if we also consider domestic violence a public crime. It is because, recognizing the seriousness of this crime, that was what made us 20 years ago able to give this civilizational advance and had given an unequivocal sign that women victims of domestic violence would not have to face this crime alone and would have an entire society willing to recognize with them also what happened to them as a crime. We can't continue to assume that it's the victim's fault and do the sort of tests that are done. We need mechanisms that strengthen the ability to protect victims and also bring some care with the way the process is treated.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u53	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u54	What we now say, with the answer we have, is that women who are victims of rape are responsible and that they should, alone, be able to solve the problem or not. Well, the Left Block has an opposite perception and defends the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u55	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u56	It is the whole society that is with them and no one is alone in such a situation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u57	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera, from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As it is obvious for victims of domestic violence, the house is not security, it is no refuge, it is a place of fear, in which every day it degrades the most intimate of each one, with cycles and escalations of violence. Domestic violence is a complex and multifactorial phenomenon involving thousands of people, much more than those that allow us to know through internal security reports or complaints from various organizations. It is that only the fact of reaching the complaint and, above all, reaching the de facto rupture and a beginning has many obstacles that stem from the fear and destruction of self-esteem to the impossibility of contemplating a different life, another family context, another home, another work, another social experience. All of this adds centuries of normalization of violence against women, which translates into the reproduction of identical relationships models. While not forgetting that there is indeed a path of raising social awareness, cultural changes that depend on the creation of dignified living conditions and access to the most elementary rights on the part of all citizens — something that is not yet fully achieved and at risk of retrogression — it is necessary, in fact, to remove the maximum obstacles and constraints in the process of releasing a situation from a type. And that is what some of the projects under discussion today are going to do, without prejudice to the fact that there are correct steps to do in speciality: to ensure concrete means and support when victims need them most. This is why it is intended, through these projects, to facilitate access to the family restructuring allowance and compensation, to give more security and possibilities in relation to the work situation, to facilitate access to housing, finally, to ensure that, from the subjective point of view, there is greater security and confidence, but also to provide social support, concrete, allowing this new start. The projects still deserve three notes. First of all, the need to raise awareness of the victims about the crime itself and above all about the support and aid available, and for this reason, the draft resolution of the ENP points ways, especially in the context of the COVID-19. On the other hand, the evidence that there is a need to give another treatment to cases of domestic violence in the media. Unfortunately, it was not enough the study by the ERC (Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ) or the recommendation of this House to have changed its approach to the topic, focusing less on the case and on the spectacularity and more on the problem, less on the danger and more on the possibilities of liberation. A final note: 'it is not enough to legislate on rights, since, as we all know, many rights have been announced to the victims and that then, due to the financial incapacity of the State and public entities, they have not had a practical translation, defrauding the victims. This, yes, is a real problem, which continues to hang on the victims and makes them discredit in the social justice and security system", says one of the opinions on these projects of the Crime Victim Protection Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u59	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u60	And say it right! Because successively discussing domestic violence without considering the strengthening of the services that are called upon to intervene, without considering the assumption by the State of their responsibilities with each of the victims, it is in fact disappointing them and we will not fulfill our role. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u61	You now have the floor for a second speech, Mrs Monica Quintela, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A crime must be of a public nature when the Community's interest in criminal prosecution is stronger than the concrete will of the offender, which in the balance of the prevailing interests, is postponed to the general interest of the community in the definition of jus punishendi. This is an example of murder crimes. It is not what happens in sexual crimes, by the very nature of these crimes. These are crimes that touch the most intimate of human beings. I leave this question here, ladies and gentlemen. Members: what happens if a victim of a sexual crime, a sexual act of relief, copulation or coitus, does not want to submit to the examination and to the medical-legal expertise? If you don't want to submit, what happens? Oh, my God! Is he punished for the crime of disobedience because he is not cooperating with the prosecution of criminal action? What's going on? What happens now with the collection of DNA samples (deoxyribonucleic acid)? We cannot force the victims to cooperate against their will, in what is of the most reputable of their being — there is nothing more intimate. Therefore, rather, when society gives greater protection and importance to the concrete individual interest, for admirable reasons, it is this individual interest that must prevail, giving in to the general interest. The initiatives presented that aim to change the nature of these crimes directly collide with the effective interests of the victims...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u63	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u64	... and the principles of autonomy and respect for the will of the victims and for the dignity of the human person. Moreover, all opinions were in this sense, with the exception of the opinion of the APMJ ( Portuguese Association of Women Jurists ). We need to ensure a system that offers the security and trust necessary for victims to be able, in their own way, to file their complaints, because crime is semi-public — for children, as you know, it is public.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u65	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u66	I will finish, Mr. President. We cannot tolerate a secondary victimization because, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that's enough! When someone wants to make a complaint, he makes a complaint. You can't be forced to do it! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u67	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will talk about the series of diplomas on domestic violence aimed at strengthening support for victims of domestic violence, strengthening prevention and training in schools and also reducing the impact on the level of news coverage. There is also a petition, « Stop killing us», signed by more than 8,000 people, of the initiative of a collective of Braga women, which I welcome, for the will they expressed, in an active exercise of citizenship, to seek solutions to one of the most heinous crimes of our time: domestic violence and marital murder. A crime that is the product of a markedly sexist society, a crime that is the manifestation of the most pungent violation of women's human rights, a crime that, despite everything that has been done, is still highly valued, naturalized and silenced. It is the crime that kills most in Portugal, a crime that the pandemic has worsened, not because the complaints are today more than yesterday, that they are not, but because the complaint is smaller. That is, oppression and aggression are more silent, and this is one of the most brutal manifestations of the loss of autonomy that the crisis has caused women: they have to live confined to the aggressor. Let us now look at public policies. Did the government have arms crossed when all this happened? The answer is, roundly, no. He wasn't! He created new places in shelters, created residential structures for elderly victims, created confidential SMS lines, launched clarification campaigns and numbers for reinforced electronic complaints, extended service networks, where 73 000 visits passed, launched training plans—are underway for 12 000 trainees, with 7000 certified hours—, training for teachers in the field of citizenship education. There are good practice guides for the media bodies, in conjunction with the ERC and the Journalist Union, there are integrated intervention guides for children and young victims of domestic violence, in close liaison with the CPCJ (Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth). There is an endless set of social support for vulnerable people; a victim protection mechanism is also under way within 72 hours following the submission of the complaint, as well as the review of the risk assessment sheet. The PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) signals victims of domestic violence in various areas, but also in priority housing support. Therefore, what is proposed, in general, is already being done and is even being done more than what is proposed. A final note in relation to the proposal submitted by the Left Block as regards the amendment of Law No 104 / 2009. It would change the paradigm of complementarity and compensation for domestic violence, which follows a European directive, which we do not think is appropriate to follow, since it is within the framework of this alignment with the European policies that this gender pandemic can fight, fighting for ratification of the Istanbul Convention by the European Union, as is being done by the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union. And to say this is to say that we will do everything, as we have done, to continue, together, this hard task of supporting projects that allow the deepening of combat and the prevention of domestic violence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u69	Finally, if I am not mistaken before the end of this debate, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Just to clarify, in a short time and in a telegraphic way, one or two points in relation to our project, I would like to explain even better what is at stake, giving a concrete example. In 2017, a grandmother and a granddaughter were killed. This case was referred to by the Public Security Police as a case of domestic, psychological and social violence. However, the qualifications of the Public Prosecutor made this case considered as threats and coercion. The victim, probably afraid, didn't complain. What happened? The threats and coercion that were not investigated and were filed ended up murdering.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u71	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u72	Even to conclude, Mr President, I would just like to say that the argument with regard to the project which foresees as a public crime rape is the same with regard to domestic violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u73	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u74	It is the old argument of « between husband and wife do not aim to reap». That is why it has changed and, from this point of view, understanding the arguments against it, but for us, it makes sense that there is a debate in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u75	To close the debate, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor on behalf of the proposing party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Should the violation be a public crime? You must! A rapist has a macho society, which lives in a sexist culture, which gives man, who is the one who practices sexual violence most, a power to see me about the victim. It gives you a power of proximity, because a large part of these crimes are committed by close people, many of them from the family itself. Therefore, in view of the social weight of a sexist society, there is the weight of the social pressure of the family space. That is why, having the rapist these aids, we must break with these chains of oppression over the victim. The victim is a victim, he's not guilty, and that's why rape must be a public crime, to protect the victim. It is that the victim has everything against her and sometimes even has her own masculine justice against her, as we have seen so many times in both court and court decisions. That is why it is right that we make this decision. It is not by paternalism towards the victim, it is not for a double persecution to the victim or for a revitalization. It is because we have to protect who is waiting for justice to protect them. The PSD Member has asked the following question: but does it make sense, for example, to require legal medical examinations who does not want to do them? No, don't. That is why justice cannot do so, as it does now, in the case of child rape, which is already a public crime. So here we can invent a set of practical problems that justice can create—and we know that some of them are actually created by justice—to remove us from the main focus. And the main focus is whether we want to have a justice that tells the victims « the problem is yours », because society tells the victims « the problem is yours », or if we want to have a justice that tells the victims « no, it moved with one, it moved with all and with one; it moved with one, it moved with our society». And that's what we don't tolerate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u77	We move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists of the debate of draft resolutions Nos 831 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends the Government to increase treatment sharing in cancer patients and 935 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strategic approach and urgent measures to combat cancer. To present these initiatives of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS is today discussing two initiatives on cancer, which deal with different subjects. The first recommends that the Government increase its participation to 90 % of low molecular weight heparins ( HBPM ), a medicinal product indicated for the treatment of cancer-associated thrombosis, where prescribed by oncologists, immuno-hemotherapists or specialists in internal medicine. Why? Because thrombosis is estimated to be the second cause of death in cancer patients; because the high morbidity associated with venous thromboembolism in the cancer patient leads to hospitalization for longer periods, delays or discontinuation of chemotherapy, bleeding risk and impairment of the patient's quality of life; and because the costs for the SNS (National Health Service) associated with the management of a thrombosis event may range from 4000 to 8000 euros. It turns out that adherence to treatment with these heparins is limited by the costs associated with therapy, representing an average burden of about 547 euros for the patient. This is because in Portugal participation is 69 % lower than in most countries of the European Union. Germany, Denmark, Finland, France, Greece, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden and the United Kingdom share the HBPM at 100 % and Spain shares them at 90 %. A alignment with practice in these countries is what we recommend for Portugal. We also make another recommendation to the Government for a strategic approach and urgent measures to combat cancer. The most recent data are from the 2018 National Oncological Register ( RON ) and are about 52,500 new cases of cancer per year, of which 7400 cases are breast cancer — already the most frequent, worldwide — followed by lung cancer and colon cancer and rectum. According to the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), cancer is the second cause of death in our country, although Portugal is among the 10 countries in Europe with the best survival rates. As we all know, the pandemic has made it difficult to access health care and the oncological area is no exception. But in cancer, early detection is critical. The President of the Portuguese League Against Cancer ( LPCC ) said in an interview this week that patients are coming to hospitals and to the IPO (English Institute of Oncology) in more advanced stages, in some cases already undergoing metastization, i.e. in more difficult situations to treat and with less likely survival or more likely use of more aggressive treatments. And this will be the result of two factors: on the one hand, the fear of COVID, which will have inhibited people from going to health units, and on the other hand, the repeated suspension of screenings, examinations, consultations and surgeries throughout this year, which has prevented access. In other words, it is necessary to give a very short-term response to this accumulation of people who need to be cared for—as someone said, COVID did not cure cancer, patients will be there sometimes without knowing it—but also medium-term solutions, to speed up the recovery of the regular flow of patients, such as about 52 000 every year. We therefore understand that a review of the national strategic approach to oncological diseases is required. Awareness-raising and prevention campaigns must be carried out. Therefore, screenings of the types of cancer with the highest incidence must be urgently resumed and the references agileized. The maximum guaranteed response times (TMRG ) are not a vague idea, have a clinical orientation and should therefore be met. Patients must have timely access to the best health care, to complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, consultations, treatments, surgeries or rehabilitation, either provided in the SNS or, as we have repeatedly been defending, contracted with the private and social sectors. This right cannot continue to be denied, because their lives are at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u79	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u80	I shall conclude, Mr President. In view of the urgency of concerted action at European level in the fight against cancer, the European Commission launched the European Cancer Action Plan. In the full Presidency of the Council of the European Union, Portugal can and should set an example for the other Member States, beginning to implement effective measures on care recovery, protection of patients and their caregivers and innovation in the area of cancer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u81	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the topic here today brought by the CDS, we would like to recall the study presented this week by the Regional Center of the Portuguese League Against Cancer on the perception of the social, economic and psychological impact of COVID-19 in cancer patients and/or survivors and their family members and/or caregivers. This study reveals that 1 in 10 patients and caregivers felt among themselves the greatest difficulty in paying family expenses during the health crisis, which is an indicator of the impact of this crisis on the socio-economic condition of these patients and their families and caregivers. I would like to recall that the NAP had already submitted a draft law for the effective response of medical boards for the assessment of disabilities, proposing that, in the case of requests for incapacity assessment which did not have a response up to 60 days after the request, the users would be compensated for the costs incurred with their necessary health treatments and care, provided that, subsequently, their degree of incapacity equal to or greater than 60 % was confirmed. Unfortunately, this proposal has been on the way in the field of expertise. But I would also like to remind you, on the subject of what we are discussing here, that the Portuguese Society of Gastroenterology refers to delays in medical examinations that have prevented the diagnosis of liver cancer "at a treatable stage" of some patients, i.e., there has been a loss of time at the level of diagnosis and serious risks of damage in the future, since, in this context, the number of people with excess weight and alcohol-related problems has increased, two of the three main causes of this type of cancer. We welcome the CDS resolution project that points to the promotion of healthy lifestyle habits, physical exercise practice and balanced diet as forms of cancer prevention, as in fact the NAP has repeatedly been referring also to the prevention of other non-communicable diseases and that, if not detected in a timely manner, can result in high personal, family, social and also for the State. in this sense, the NAP will certainly have the support of the CDS in the initiatives that will continue to present so that there is an increasing focus on disease prevention through food, based on scientific evidence and on the recommendations of the International Agency for Cancer Research. Let us not forget, Mrs. Member, that the World Health Organization points to food as the meat processed in the group of carcinogenic factors for human beings, so surely the CDS will not forget this scientific information and will be on our side so that the consumption of food as processed meat is significantly reduced, as a form of prevention of oncological diseases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u83	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The pandemic forced the rehabilitation of resources to respond to the emergency and this rehabilitation would obviously have to have an impact on the remaining clinical and surgical activity, linked to all other diseases that have not ceased to exist. What is not perceived, and much less accepted, is that the government has not done everything within its power to reduce this impact on people's lives. For example, the Portuguese Society of Gastroenterology recently confirmed that delays in the examinations prevented the diagnosis of liver cancer at a treatable stage. These people have not lost years of life, these years of life have been taken from them. And we have to be aware, the sad awareness that the numbers of liver cancer will add up other numbers that represent, too, lost lives. to those who say it is demagogic to say that it was possible to avoid all these deaths, we answer that it is irresponsible to think that much more could not have been done. The government could have done more, used all the capacity installed in the system and referred these patients to hospitals capable of treating them. These deaths will appear in the statistics, but will only be mourned by their loved ones. It is time for political decision makers to face this pain that their inaction has caused and to try to prevent it from repeating itself in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u85	You have the floor for one speech, Mr Rui Cristina, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing two initiatives of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. In the first initiative, the Government is recommended to increase treatment participation in cancer patients and, secondly, to propose a strategic approach and urgent measures to combat cancer. These are two timely initiatives, the second being especially pressing, in the pandemic context that our country has lived for more than a year, insofar as cancer patients are consciously counted among the large indirect victims of COVID-19. In fact, it is thousands of cancer patients who since March last year have not had access to consultations, treatments and even to surgeries that their disease imposes. And many have also been the thousands of Portuguese who have been prevented from performing cancer screenings, which, we know, are fundamental to the diagnosis and screening of cancer. If prior to the pandemic the waiting times in cancer were already high, the Minister of Health himself recognized that, at the end of January, there were 1100 cancer patients waiting for priority surgeries. As far as priority surgeries are concerned, Mrs and Mrs. Members, only in the IPO of Lisbon, Porto and Coimbra, were conducted last year less than 3100 cancer surgeries than in 2019, having had a breakdown of 2400 primary care references. At the end of 2020, in the face of this brutal reduction in care activity, the Director of the Oncology Service of the University Hospital Center in Northern Lisbon warned that the risk of dying from cancer is much greater than that of dying from COVID and we are neglecting a much more lethal disease. Last January, the president of the Southern Section of the Medical Order recognized that many SNS hospitals were only doing priority surgeries and there were situations where they had to cancel even oncological surgeries. But if it is true that the pandemic has worsened the SNS situation, it is no less true that the SNS was already in a rather serious situation. In fact, in the first quarter of 2020, even before the effects of the pandemic were felt, data from the SNS Portal already revealed that one in every four priority hospital consultations of the SNS, precisely the most urgent, occurred beyond the maximum time of the guaranteed response and that, in terms of surgical activity, one in every six priority surgeries, including oncological surgeries, had an average waiting time longer than the maximum allowed. So, before you make yourself feel among us the effects of COVID-19, the SNS was already not well and say the opposite is lying to the Portuguese. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in 2020 there was a 13% increase in mortality; more than 13 000 Portuguese died than the average in recent years and 6175 deaths were due to different causes of the pandemic. Non-COVID mortality shames the country and clearly shames this government. I ask, due to the lack of government measures, how many lives have already been lost and how many will still be lost for not ensuring rapid access to health care, particularly for cancer patients. The PSD considers it imperative that the Government take strong measures to recover the SNS'care activity, especially that which was interrupted due to the pandemic. And it is particularly urgent in cancer, in which the delay of treatment clearly amounts to death. Therefore, the PSD Parliamentary Group proposed, in the last State budgets, mechanisms for reducing waiting times for surgeries, for consultations, treatments and diagnoses, including oncological diseases. Today it is time to welcome the CDS for the initiatives that brought the discussion, but tomorrow it is time to insist to reduce waiting times in the SNS, in the certainty that our proposals serve the Portuguese, especially those who have less resources and therefore less freedom of choice of health services than they need so much. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u87	You now have the floor, for an intervention on behalf of the Green Party, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens consider that the topic that the CDS brings to discussion today is very relevant. Cancer is considered the main public health problem at European level and is known to be the increasing incidence of the cancer forum resulting largely from changes in life, work, food and even environmental problems. The response of the National Health Service to the cancer patient was, before the outbreak, consensually praised, but we knew it was not perfect. There were already gaps, which we tried to combat, particularly when we unanimously approved the recommendation to the Government to move forward with a strategic plan for the implementation of colon and rectum cancer screening, cervical cancer, breast cancer and diabetic retinopathy, on the basis of the assumption that investment in prevention in the future means savings in health costs in the oncology area and a higher rate of success. However, the outbreak of the epidemic of COVID-19, the spread of the idea that everything should be cancelled and the spread of fear introduced new and very serious problems, such as the drastic reduction of screenings and clinical activity, also in the oncological area. The CDS projects are read and the question is whether they will be doing the retroactive review of their positioning. In the debate of the State Budget, the Greens proposed that in the first quarter of 2021 the Government should hire family physicians, nurses, clinical secretaries and operational assistants who were lacking in primary health care, propose that the Government make the necessary funds available for the implementation of the requalification interventions required in health centres and that the provision of medical and medical materials, the lack of which compromises the efficiency of health care provision, and the CDS, which today expresses just concerns, did not vote in favour of the proposal submitted by the Greens. Were not the difficulties already known in primary health care, so important for prevention and early diagnosis? Or is this set of recommendations just an envelope to justify the delivery of another piece of the health budget to the private sector? As we have repeatedly stated over the past few months, we are facing an emergency, the emergency to guarantee the entire population the right to the most qualified health care. We believe that the response continues to be in the development of the investigation, in the reinforcement of the SNS and in its freeness, for the benefit of all those who suffer and come to suffer from an oncological disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u89	The next intervention will be the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, by Mrs Telma Guerreiro. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We thank the opportunity for the draft resolutions to bring us to discuss the topic of the fight against cancer in Portugal, a topic that is certainly consensual in its importance and relevance, which has been on the agenda for many years and which is also today more than ever. It is now, more than ever, on the agenda because it is a priority for our Government; it is today, more than ever, with the European Union's prioritising, which recently presented a financing strategy to support Member States in improving cancer control and care provision to reduce the suffering caused by the disease; it is today, more than ever, on the agenda because unfortunately the pandemic we live has delayed diagnoses, has stopped treatments, has hindered access to medicines, a profound impact on people's quality of life. We understand, therefore, that the CDS also wants to put the issue on its political agenda, but we cannot fail to say that the measures it presents little add to what is already being developed or planned at national and European level. With a secure source of inspiration, the CDS has had enough time to search the Parliament portal and conclude that the PS has not been presenting initiatives on the topic since 2005 — so it writes in its project. With the same naturality and sincerity with which we welcome the CDS by bringing the topic to debate, we also say that, for the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, no topic, and much less the topic of the fight against cancer, is dealt with at the level of the championship, and we also say that, as the Government and the European Union are doing their utmost to combat cancer with greater effectiveness and humanity, we must comply with ourselves and monitor, through our action in the Assembly of the Republic. Having said this, about the project on heparin participation, I would say that its discussion should continue to be done in an integrated way, in order to do justice in relation to other groups that may have the same need. On the cancer strategy project, we would like to mention the following points: national campaigns and cancer prevention through the promotion of healthy lifestyles have been affixed by the Socialist Government and are well known for their positive results. On the screenings, it should be noted that over the last three years, it was possible to strike, in a very significant way, asymmetries in geographical coverage. At present, for example, we have 100 % geographical coverage in the screening of cervical cancer. On the topic of care activity, we stress the Government's commitment to strengthening means and mechanisms that allow support to be maximized. We are all witnesses of the resilience of the SNS and how we sought to take care of the response to oncology. And, Mr. Rui Cristina, lying to the Portuguese is not recognizing that since 2015 we see the socialist government is recovering the SNS. To lie to the Portuguese is not to acknowledge the work done by this Assembly of the Republic, the work done by the Socialist Government in combating COVID. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Regarding access to pharmacological treatment in oncology, there will be a significant and gradual increase in the financing of new medicines since 2015. Finally, clinical research has increased in Portugal, with a substantial increase in 2020. We are proud of our country, which is internationally recognized for its high quality, as evidence of robust scientific evidence, in strict compliance with the rights of human dignity and integrity. I even wish to congratulate the young researcher Márcia Faria, who is today announced as a young Portuguese scientist to receive a European prize for a work specifically on cancer. contrary to what is expressed in the explanatory statement, it is not urgent to review the national strategic approach to oncological diseases, because the strategy exists and is a strategy with positive results. There is clear evidence that Portugal is among the 10 countries in Europe with the best survival rates for cancer diseases, as the CDS itself acknowledged here. What is urgent is to update the national plan on the basis of the European Plan to Combat Cancer, but for this it does not need the CDS to recommend because the recommendations are made and the commitment of Portugal is assumed. What is urgent is the understanding, for each of us, of the personal and family dimension of cancer and that this understanding is increasingly reflected in the public policies we put on the agenda. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group reaffirms its commitment to these challenges and will always seek to be on the front line, taking care of the access, quality and humanity of the responses. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u91	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Cancer, cancer, cancer, is obviously something that weighs a lot on the lives of the individual and also on society. We all know, in fact, that this weight will increase; as the average life expectancy increases, the prevalence and incidence of cancer will increase. The great challenge facing societies today is to make many of these oncological diseases turn into chronic diseases. So it is an area with which we will have to live, as a society, but knowing of this enormous weight that cancer places in the lives of people who suffer from this disease. It is also true that the COVID-19 pandemic has brought impacts on the response to cancer in Portugal: it has suspended much of the screenings, delayed many surgeries, delayed many treatments, delayed many diagnoses, which will be a serious problem in the present and in the immediate future. There are diagnoses that have not been made quickly and, therefore, more severe oncological cases will come to hospitals, which are more difficult to treat and which will represent more difficulty for the person. We know all this, as we also know that during the pandemic, not everything had to be like, after all, it was. For example, medical boards did not need to have been completely suspended without having any type of automatic mechanism to ensure that cancer-diagnosed patients could access the right multi-use attestation and the rights enshrined in the law by access to this multi-use attestation. I am glad that Parliament, in fact, on the initiative of several parties, including the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has resolved to correct this injustice here. But, for example, the tracks didn't need to have had a deep braking either. It is now necessary to recover all traces, very quickly, knowing that there are some, such as, for example, the cancer screening of the colon, in which it is not just about recovering the basic population screening. It is also about doing other things, such as increasing the capacity of complementary methods of diagnosis and therapy, particularly in the area of colonoscopy, because without increasing response in this area, this population-based systematic screening will be very difficult to achieve percentages that are visible. So we have a lot to do and a lot to learn from what probably shouldn't have been done during phases of this pandemic. What we say is that we agree, yes, that screenings should be placed on the ground quickly; yes, we agree that complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, which are fundamental to these screenings, should be intensified and created in the National Health Service; yes, we believe that waiting lists of surgeries, treatments, etc. should be recovered quickly. , and yes, this obviously involves a very considerable strengthening of the National Health Service. We also believe that there are other matters to be put on. For example, the improvement of the way people with cancer follow up in this country; bet on psycho-oncology, which is fundamental, being an area that is being highly specialized but very little accessible to people with cancer; and bet on a very important thing, which is to guarantee transportation and accommodation, free stay, of people who often have to travel to hundreds of miles of their home to do treatments that often take several days or several weeks. Therefore, the State, the National Health Service, I believe, should guarantee all this for these people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u93	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u94	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, the Left Block will follow the measures that we consider positive and that go in this direction. We're not going to discuss cancer and cancer patients with a shooting weapon, as you've already tried. We will not do that, but we will follow the positive measures. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u95	Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have discussed two initiatives, proposed by the CDS, on cancer diseases, although each of them has a different object. On the increase in the participation of low molecular weight heparins in the treatment of thrombosis associated with cancer, proposing the CDS the increase of this participation to step A is a measure that we follow. As mentioned above, thrombosis is the second cause of death in cancer patients and there is, in fact, a high effort on the part of these patients at the cost of medicines, so we follow this measure. On the other initiative, the strategic approach and urgent measures in the fight against cancer, there are several aspects that need to be borne in mind. The main problem with which we are currently facing, and even following the impact of the pandemic on the diagnosis and treatment of cancer patients — the biggest problem — are the diagnoses that are not being made in a timely manner. Patients are not reaching hospitals for treatment and when it is discovered that they have the disease, often this diagnosis is already late and has consequences, of course, either in situations of more serious disease or in their own mortality. This is the fundamental problem that we have right now and that we need to deal with. In fact, we have presented several proposals and solutions in two directions, at this time of the epidemic we face in the country: on the one hand, to fight directly the epidemic and to deal with the issues we have put of testing, screening, vaccination, which are absolutely essential, and on the other hand, to recover the delays in health care. And the issue that matters here is a strong investment in the National Health Service. A set of data that has come to the public is extremely worrying, with 40 000 Portuguese screenings being delayed, with a reduction of 30 to 50 % of the reference of patients to hospitals, with data that there are fewer surgeries, for example, in the IPOs. And it's not because there's really little capacity, it's because there's also less diagnosed patients. The Minister herself acknowledges that there are a large number of cancer surgeries that await completion. And this is what is really needed to answer. In the set of proposals that we have put forward in our initiative, with solutions that have been approved and that are contained in the State Budget, for example, recovery, particularly in primary health care, is essential. Users, patients, cannot continue to stay at the door, so it is necessary to retrieve the consultations, it is necessary to recover the tests and treatments that are to be carried out. And if we consider primary health care as the gateway to the National Health Service, it is essential that patients be monitored. For this, it is also necessary to hire more health professionals. There can be no limitations here and there must also be the consecration of the rights of these same professionals; the strengthening of investment in the replacement of obsolete equipment and the strengthening of the capacity for examinations in the National Health Service, as well as for the conduct of treatments. No, it's not all done, as mentioned here. In fact, much more needs to be done immediately to respond to these concrete measures so that cancer patients can not only have the treatments they are entitled to in good time but may also have the early diagnosis, so that the response is more appropriate, from the health point of view. We follow a set of concrete proposals presented by the CDS, but there are specific aspects that we cannot follow, as is obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u97	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u98	I will finish, Mr. President. The question here is not about spreading our attention and transferring public care and resources to private groups, the central question is to strengthen the response of the National Health Service and this is where attention should be focused on government intervention,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u99	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u100	... that is to say, in fulfilling what has been approved, which allows to greatly strengthen this capacity. In fact, the SNS is the solution to solving these problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u101	Let us turn to the closure of this item on the agenda. To that end, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this very peaceful debate - and I am glad that this is the case, because it actually brings together consensus at least on the issue - I would like to say that I really had time to do my work, Mrs Telma Guerreiro, which implies, among other things, seeing what has been proposed over the years and, as has not been denied by the honourable Member, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has not proposed anything. That's what it is! In fact, Mrs Deputy, it is not a championship. You're absolutely right. It's really the work we're doing here, that's really it! And our work and our political action also goes by proposing what we believe is necessary and what is missing. I do so with particular pleasure and therefore, sincerely, I also welcome your expression as a compliment. We are indeed witnesses at this time of the resilience of the SNS — I agree with you — but we have also witnessed its physical limitation. The SNS, and I think it is not a great surprise for everyone, is also limited and this limitation was expressed, for example, in the number of mammograms that were made: if we compared February 2020 with February 2021, we will see that 8535 mammograms were made in 2020 and in 2021, it was 5000, which means that there was less screening work done. If there is less screening, there is less diagnosis, there are fewer consultations, there is less reference, there are fewer surgeries, there is less cure, Mrs. For this, we have essentially two ways and, apparently, today we have three: there is one way to solve the emergency, and I will insist whenever we can wait for investment in the SNS, that it materializes, but these people are dying and, Madam Member, they are not dying according to our ability to wait. Therefore, if there is capacity in private service or social service, this capacity is opened, contracting, so that people do not die. That's all, Mrs Telma Warrior. We can also expect — as usual in the proposals of the CFP and the Block — to invest in the SNS. Nothing against, but it takes more time and, as time goes on, there are people who will suffer with it. And today a third proposal has appeared — and with this I conclude, Mr President — which is to be hoped for by the European Union. It's a new experience. We will then wait for the European plan, in which, in the end, our sovereignty, in this respect, will be resolved by others. You may come here to take care of us. It's happened in the past and I don't like what happens again.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u103	This concludes the second point of our agenda. We move on to the third point, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of Bill Nos 752 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Altera o Decree-Law No 22 - D / 2021, of March 22, enabling examination of improvement of internal grade in secondary school, 747 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Extension of exceptional and temporary measures to safeguard the rights of higher education students, 726 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Support measures for public higher education students, 760 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Alter the Decree-Law No. 22 - D / 2021 of March 22, enabling students to perform examination of improvement of internal grade in secondary school, 769 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amends Decree-Law No 10 - B / 2021 of 4 February in its current wording, in order to allow students to carry out national tests for the purpose of improving the final classification, and 774 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — Alter the Decree-Law No 22 - D / 2021 of 22 March, eliminating the failure to perform the final tests of basic education of 9. the year of schooling and final national exams, when carried out by internal students, for the purposes of approval of disciplines and completion of secondary education and eliminating the exemption from the completion of final cycle tests, in cases where their completion is planned only for the purposes of further study. We will start this debate with the presentation of the NAP initiative. Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Education Commission has presented to this Parliament a greeting vote on the National Student Day, which must be a challenge to all of us so that we can follow the concerns of these young people and we will be able to legislate without hypothetical their future. We are talking in particular about the unjust political decision that has been taken by the government and that will harm them, because it is impossible to make an improvement in the score of the internal classification. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party in particular, we have not come here to say that students should be able to take tests for completion of secondary education, until in this matter the position of the NAP is already known: these exams should not exist anymore and therefore we agree with this decision, which does not harm any student. In fact, it would be totally unreasonable in a context like what we live in, to keep these tests, and, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this decision already meets the Government's goal of significantly reducing the number of tests in a health context like the one we live in. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have come here to try to solve is the fact that these students, caught unawares, like any one of us, in the midst of a health crisis, see their academic situation even worse because the government has decided to examine them for internal grade improvement, which affects their average, in a model of access to higher education based in tenths. This decision also has an impact on students' vital curricula and, therefore, we are faced with double injustice and injury. If last year we were still adapting to health conditions in various contexts, including school, this year we already have enough knowledge and experience to avoid making the same mistake last year. However, it is incomprehensible for the government to take this decision again without trying to find out how many students actually need to make the improvement of the internal rating rating. And I say they need why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for whom you have children, family members, friends or close companions to the reality of students who want to get to higher education, know well how important it is that one tenth or less has that same access. When the Government and the Socialist Party so use the maximum of not leaving anyone behind, they will certainly not be talking about these students, who are being left behind. This is not just a PAN claim. It is a demand of the students themselves, families and teachers, who created the #EuBest movement to raise awareness among policy makers about this matter. It is a claim to which other parties have already joined, such as the PSD, the PCP, the CDS, the IL and we hope that the Left Block and even the Socialist Party can also join. We recall that today is the last day of registration for national examinations and, therefore, if the Assembly of the Republic follows this just amendment, it will of course be necessary to open a specific deadline for inclusion in notes for internal classification purposes. And on the number of examinations to be carried out, the NAP favours the government to forward data: an investigation by the Inspiring Future Association provides for about 5000 examinations in the first phase, which is a very residual value in the logistics of the examinations. So we ask: does the government, which successfully organised last year's exams, not have the capacity to carry out these tests anymore, which represent a residual number compared to the total? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, because I think no further arguments are needed to consider this decision unjustifiable, we cannot hear speeches about motivation and happiness for our young people but then prevent...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u105	To conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u106	... that these students make average improvements, conditioning their access. This government decision will be marked by two sentences created by students themselves: "I wanted to improve my average to enter higher education, but the government did not leave! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u107	The next intervention will be the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr Filipe Pacheco, who is already on his way to the Bureau, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u108	It's not from the table, it's from the rostrum!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u109	It's not from the table, you're absolutely right. Thank you very much for the correction, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa. [[Laughing.]] You have the floor, Mr. Filipe Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party presents this bill to extend some exceptional and temporary measures to defend the rights of higher education students. And it is for the entire educational community that goes our first words, of appreciation, recognition and trust. Words of appreciation and recognition for the daily herculeum effort that students, teachers and non-teachers have made so that, in a pandemic context, they continue to produce and transmit knowledge; and a word of confidence to the institutions that, after the dissolution, knew how to lead the system to a new point of balance and stability. But the truth is that the COVID-19 continues to make it difficult every day for the academic journey and the future of many young people in our country, those who want to access higher education, those who attend it and those who are already close to entering the labour market. And, despite the current progressive defination process that we are experiencing, from partial return to the presence regime, there are still numerous situations of distance learning activities, moments of online evaluation or impossibility of students to attend classes or evaluations because of periods of isolation. That is why, given the exceptionality we live in, and similar to what has happened last school year, we understand that it is of all justice that two measures to protect students' rights are being extended. On the one hand, all students can have access to all stages of examinations planned, including the special period phase. On the other hand, we believe that the current academic year cannot be counted for the purposes of the prescription deadlines. We understand that it is very important for these two measures to be approved now, to enter into force, so that the institutions can be prepared in a timely manner and that students know what they are counting on and how to benefit from them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that the future of the country plays in higher education and that is why we present these proposals today, in order to guarantee rights and protect the confidence of students and their families in higher education, science and knowledge, as key factors in their personal development and the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u111	Let us turn to the intervention of the CFP Parliamentary Group. Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the eve of the reopening of higher education, in which more than 395 000 students expect to return to institutions, we already have schools to inform their students that there will be no more presence classes in this school year. The demotivation and fatigue of many students are increasingly evident, along with the worsening socio-economic conditions of families. An investigation by the Academic Association of the University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro ( AAUTAD ), conducted in February, found that 13 % of the surveyed students consider quitting if only the online education is maintained. In the survey of the University of Lisbon Academic Association it is reported that 37, 5 % of the students surveyed have already been without lunch or dinner twice to four times a week and that 60 % of the students are experiencing financial difficulties and even consider leaving higher education. The survey conducted by the Association of Students of the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences of the University of New Lisbon ( AEFCSH ) shows 60 % of respondents saying that technical difficulties call into question distance education and that 50% understand that communication failures are also problematic. In addition, 33, 5 % refer to difficulties in accessing bibliography and computer materials, while 30 % claim that they are unable to carry out practical work. the students of the 2. o is 3. the cycles that are performing the thesis or the dissertation, 70% claim that the confinement is detrimental to the realization of it. It is noted that about 90% of the students who responded to the AEFCSH study report that confinement is having a negative impact on their mental health, including worsening of previously diagnosed psychiatric situations. in this context, the return to face-to-face teaching in full conditions of health security is essential to combat inequalities. The longer this reality is delayed, the greater will be the damage in learning, mental health and in the form of regular functioning of institutions, the greater the risk of subversion of pedagogical models. Therefore, we insist: vaccination, screening, testing and social support are the central elements of the response that need to be realized to overcome the health problem we continue to face and the serious economic and social problems arising from confinement. To strengthen the social response, the CFP today presents a draft law with measures to support public higher education students, which proposes: that it is not due to the payment of propins and other fees and emoluments, while the measures for the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the COVID-19 ; the dispensation of monthly payment in the residences of the school social action services, during the suspension of the educational and non-presentative activities; the exemption from the payment of the price of the social meal for the beneficiaries of scholarships and the sharing, by 50 %, of the costs of meals, in the canteens, for the other students of higher education; the strengthening of the psychology services, according to the needs expressed by the public higher education institutions. We propose, in relation to these four measures, that there be a guarantee of transfer to institutions of the value corresponding to the revenue to be made and the cost increase, if any, associated. In addition, the CFP also raises two key issues with regard to deadlines. On the one hand, clarification of something that several institutions have not applied fairly. This is the proposal of the CFP, approved in the State Budget, for the extension of the delivery period and / or presentation of theses or dissertations in the cycles of studies leading to the degree of master or doctor in public higher education institutions, not implying, in any case, the payment of any value related to propines, rates and emoluments. More: having identified multiple cases, from north to south of the country, of amounts unduly charged to students who have been denied the application of the budget, we propose that there be compensation for the values corresponding to propines, rates or emoluments already unduly charged. Finally, we propose that the deadlines for completion of the curricular stages necessary for obtaining a higher degree be extended for a period similar to that in which the student was prevented from developing the respective work plan, without prejudice to the candidacy of the higher cycle of studies to which the curricular stage relates. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : In view of issues relevant to the resolution of specific problems affecting thousands of students, we are open to the possibility of work, in the field of expertise, so that this opportunity is not wasted. With regard to projects relating to improvement of rating, the CFP has already presented an initiative on this subject, which has been rejected, but we will follow the initiatives that go in the direction of what we have proposed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u113	The next intervention will be by Mr Alexandre Poço, the PSD. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has recently announced the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the pandemic in the area of education. Like last year, the Socialist Government once again prohibits examinations to improve the internal grade of secondary education disciplines. Let us be clear and direct: this limitation harms students who want to perform improvements tests, with the aim of increasing the grade of secondary education and thus raising their average application for higher education. Parliament, through the proposals being debated today — one at the initiative of the Members of the Democratic Social Youth — can demonstrate that it is with the students to correct this injustice and restore them a right. The bill that we present answers only to this question: should we allow students who want to do so to carry out improvements? Our answer is clear and undoubtedly: yes! The students mobilized and took a stand against this unfair decision, which does not take into account the effort and additional work to which thousands of students propose to increase their internal classifications. The student mobilization has been visible, through the launch of a public petition, of joint positions of several student associations, the creation of the #Eughoro movement and, more recently, of protests in the media and social networks, demanding the possibility of performing improvements examinations. After more than one year to deal with the pandemic situation, but also with learning the experience of the previous school year, with regard to the conduct and organization of national examinations, the Government does not provide a logical justification for this prohibition to be maintained. Lately, the Government has renewed this understanding, without understanding the reasons for this decision, which ignores the efforts and additional will of thousands of students to improve their performance in secondary education. Moreover, the justifications we have heard by the Socialist Party are confusing and unclear and always ignore the essential: the right of students to fight for their academic and personal future. The disintegration is so great that, even today, the Socialist Party presents a bill, with which we agree and that we will vote in favour, in order to allow students of higher education access to all possible phases and periods of examination, but surprisingly, the Socialist Party itself denies this right to secondary school students who intend to undertake an improvement examination.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u116	With the experience of the previous school year, and with the aim of reducing the risk of infection and not putting public health into question, the Government was obliged to better plan the logistical and organizational conditions in which students will perform national exams, in this second atypical school year in their lives. instead, the government preferred to make a table of the effort of all students at a fundamental stage in their lives. It is also recalled that, on 15 February 2021, the National Access to Higher Education Commission (CNAES) recommended that the possibility of examinations used for the improvement of grade should be opened. The current school year, by inaction and disillusionment of the government, is being a disaster for students and teachers. And this decision to prohibit the examinations of improvement is another example of the above-mentioned disorientation. Computers promised, for all, that have never arrived at schools; students without the internet to have distance classes; a school year that has not been prepared for a second confinement; and, to close, the penalization of students who want to fight for their grades and their academic and personal future, despite the government, despite the exceptional and quite difficult learning context. In short, students invest time and study in their training, work, strive, but on the part of the government, this effort is not taken into account. As long as the students want to make an effort, the government has not even worked hard. We are still in time to correct this injustice. Parliament today has the opportunity to say whether or not it is next to the students in something as basic as essential and fair: the right to take an examination, the right of each student to pursue his dreams. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u117	You now have the floor to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We discussed today, then, two sets of projects, two related to higher education and two related to non-higher education. I'm starting with higher education. We will follow the draft resolution of the Socialist Party which, in fact, extends a situation that is fair, which was already coming from last year and which, while maintaining the circumstances, also deserves to be maintained. Regarding the PCP bill, as it is not surprising, we have structural points of deep disagreement regarding the exemption of propines and the payment of residences in the transversal form as shown here. As regards Article 5. this project, this matter is largely resolved with the draft law of the NAP that was approved unanimously last week. With regard to Articles 6. a is 7. the, regarding curricular internships and mental health, we would like to have a more in-depth discussion on these topics, which we accompany, but which, in the context of a bill, we cannot detrine. So, as the issue of propines is central to us, we will not follow this project. As for the rest, the CDS joins the NAP and the PSD in order to allow examinations in secondary education for the purpose of improving the internal note, i.e. the average of the secondary, which will be weighted on the formula for access to higher education. Moreover, the Liberal Initiative — which we have heard a short time ago — has adopted a draft resolution on this principle, only with the votes against the PS, so the starting point for this matter has already been given. The principle is simple and has to do with the possibility, which existed until last year, to allow those who do so, for different reasons, to have the opportunity to work a little more and make an additional effort to have better results in the examinations and thus increase their chances of entering higher education. What are the government's arguments for changing its position? First of all, paradoxically, they say it's not time to make changes. Well, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not time to make changes, but you did. Moreover, they made two changes: one in the calculation formula of the note for access and the other in the calculation of the internal average. So this argument doesn't seem to me to catch. The second big argument, which, in part, I follow, concerns separating the conclusion of compulsory education from entry into higher education. Therefore, the exams are only used as proof of entry and compulsory education is completed with the notes of the continuous evaluation. Even if not entering the discussion, which I think is relevant, about the danger of hyperinflation of internal notes and asymmetries that may take place there, the fact is that the students who performed last year and will perform, this year, tests on triennial or biennial disciplines, when they started their cycle of studies, had as purpose and as given the possibility of making improvements. Now, changing this is, yes, changing the rules in the middle of the game and, in our understanding, it is twofoldly wrong. The third and final argument of the Government is logistics. They say that, in pandemic time, it is appropriate to reduce the number of evidence to safeguard public health situations. If this could make sense last year, although, from our point of view, it would be rebuttable, this year there is no reason for that. The Government would have and still have time to plan the steps and the logistics operation, so that this additional number of evidence, which is reduced, can be carried out safely. Therefore, a decision that was taken in the wrong way, last year, remains wrong, this year, with the publication of Decree-Law No 22 - D / 2021, of March 22. The strange thing is that, unlike other years, there is no official deliberations of CNAES. It is strange, because if we come to see the portal of the Directorate-General for Higher Education, we have all those years before, but this year it does not exist. And it is more strange that after Mr President said, in public statements made on 16 February, that he saw good evidence of improvement, as has already been mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be in time to correct this situation. We are within the limit of the deadline, but it can certainly be extended without great damage, and that is what we propose today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u119	Mrs. Member, we're at the limit of the deadline...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u120	And that's how I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u121	The next intervention is Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u122	Mr President, a draft resolution of the Liberal Initiative was adopted 15 days ago on the issue of improvement of note and, therefore, of course, our vote will be in favour of the bills currently being discussed and going in the same direction. Do not allow exams to be taken to improve the note not only disregard the efforts made throughout the year by students, teachers and teachers, but also, above all, frustrate the legitimate expectations, and in some cases the government does so for the second consecutive year. The number of improvement exams is perfectly manageable as regards the social distance recommended by the health authorities in carrying out national examinations, because there is, in general, a wide availability of space for this, either in the usual educational spaces, or in other facilities, such as the pavilions of the schools themselves. In the background, for the Liberal Initiative, unlike others, to defend the right of students to conduct grade improvement exams is to be careful, above all, for the interest of these students above all, even knowing that they do not yet vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u123	Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Left Block, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I would like to congratulate all the parliamentary groups on the presentation of the initiatives we are now discussing. These are not new issues, nor the issue of improvement of note in the examination, nor the set of support which various parliamentary groups have been presenting, within their political areas, to ensure the fight against the crisis in higher education, especially among students. Therefore, it is up to the Left Block, firstly, to inform that we obviously follow all the measures that are going to combat the crisis that today students live in higher education. We do so in a logic to ease, combat or even end a policy of highly unjust propins and to strengthen our social action system, particularly in the matter of scholarships, housing, the need for more support in mental health. We also do so, of course, in a logic of creating pedagogical and curricular conditions so that these same higher education students are not unprotected at a time when online education is increasingly a matter of concern, not only from the pedagogical point of view, but also from the point of view of mental health itself. On the other hand, we still do so in a logical way to ensure that learning, whether online or face-to-face, with the difficulties that all this currently entails, does not create any more social and territorial asymmetries. On the questions of the evaluation processes, of the end of secondary education, of access to higher education, we have kept what we have been saying since the pre-pandamy period. The Assembly of the Republic, the country, the students, the schools need to have a serious debate on the model of access to higher education, not to turn everything out of the bird, but to ensure that there is a broad debate and that everyone is called for this debate, which is very important. It is necessary to discuss new pedagogical instruments, it is necessary to discuss how we can guarantee a new vision of territorial and social inclusion, we need to discuss what are the major barriers to access to higher education today, which are, to a large extent, composed of financial difficulties, but also of social, cultural and ethnic difficulties, which need to be in this debate. Therefore, regardless of whether we follow up with, as we did in the past, a circumstantial need to correct this or that injustice, we need above all to ensure a wider debate, because otherwise we will always be behind the remedies. The pandemic will not actually allow us to have a debate based on the difficult circumstances in which these exams can be allowed to take place or not, but we need to call all of us for a debate that should include: students, first-line students; teachers, teachers, technicians, specialists; parents; and also doctors with a view to combating mental health problems, which have been aggravated, from the point of view of pressure for examinations, of increased anxiety, of the circumstance of students, often already in 8. o, 9. o or no 10. the year, they are being medicated, theoretically because of the problem of lack of attention. Therefore, this is a whole set of subjects which must be seen and studied in a holistic way and the Left Block Parliamentary Group will be present in a broad debate which will certainly make the Assembly of the Republic in that direction. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u125	Mrs Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The projects that we are discussing today are about a very important issue, that of the situation of education and the response to young people at a particularly difficult time. Yesterday, students at the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences, which we greet from here, expressed themselves in defense of present education and, within a few days, secondary school students will resume classes, within the framework of progressive defination. As we know, the young people were particularly affected by the epidemic: two school years in question, with intermittent and difficulties that the government itself recognizes and that a study on the first confinement shows, making it clear that, if nothing is done, some students will stay behind. The numbers are worrying: 20 % with local difficulties to study, 17 % with difficulty in accessing computers, 15 % with difficulty in accessing the Internet. Distance teaching, decided as a measure of prevention and containment of the COVID-19 pandemic, helped to deepen inequalities among students, as it is obvious in access to the Internet and computer material, with profound implications for learning processes. The solution presented by the Government was the establishment of another working group. Let us hope that this working group will be speedy in the presentation and preparation of the next school year, which will be even more demanding. The government must be clear in the recovery plan, without touching on the rights to rest and leisure for students and teachers. The various initiatives under discussion today reflect the difficulties experienced by Portuguese students. These are difficulties that reach students of compulsory education, but which extend to students of higher education. Some are faced with problems: with the government's obstinacy to carry out examinations, without students being on equal circumstances, or with tips, without basic services being provided to them. These inequalities are not surprising and it is regrettable that the government is watching the situation evolve as if it were a mere problem, without taking care of the answers needed in its own time, which could have made the difference in the lives of many children and young people. To all this is added the aggravating of expenses with propines, with transport, with residences and with food, pressure and isolation put young people in a state of anxiety and nervousness, which, as the student association movement has come to report, has led to the abandonment of higher education. Finally, we still have problems with the mental health of children and young people, who are hypothesized. It is not enough to say that, in the State Budget, there is a word to strengthen the mental health services network in the National Health Service, it must be implemented and prevention plans must be promoted in schools and institutions of higher education. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, on this floor, in education, it's not going to be all right.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u127	Mrs Carla Sousa of the PS now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is up to me to examine the proposals put forward by the PSD, the Arrival, which is not here and has failed another debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u129	The test failed! Go to phase two!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u130	... on a subject which is supposed to be relevant, but for which it should not have had time — by the CDS and the PAN, on which I would like to say, from now on, that the subject is not new, but it will always continue to deserve our best attention. I know that the 2019 school year already seems distant enough in the forgotten terms that it began containing, in itself, all the possibilities for all students and that it was the pandemic disruption at the beginning of 2020, which frustrated the expectations of thousands of students. We are talking about a reality that has been imposed on all and all and that has forced the government to make decisions that have affected their lives, the lives of families and the life of school. In order to prevent contagions and not put lives in danger, external assessments ceased at all levels of education, except for the proof that allows access to higher education. After a year, the pandemic didn't disappear. Some parties, however, consider that normality can be assumed by decree and ask for the return of the final evidence of the 9. the year, of evidence to improve the grade of access to higher education, of evidence to improve internal grade, of evidence to improve the classification of evidence already performed. PSD, PAN, CDS, Arrives, tired of the pandemic, like us, decide to create a new illusion. Among those who want to end all the exams and those who want only the return of some, virtue is surely in the proposal found by the government, which is a response to a conditional reality: exams only for those who want to enter higher education. in this model, students who end the 12. the year is in a position of equality and proportionality between themselves and those who ended last year, because, in the middle of uncertainty, a greater uncertainty for all students, some stability and security are necessary, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. We therefore argue that the rules of this exceptional time should be maintained, the same rules that allowed a record number of 62 000 students to apply last year. It took us 24 years to get here. The vacancies in higher education accompanied this increase, ensuring the entry into higher education of 57 000 students. To change some rules, even in times of pandemic, can only be cause of more anxiety, more insecurity for these students and, although done on behalf of equality, will create new inequalities and new discriminations. There we will be in the future to make that assessment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u131	We have thus reached the end of the third point of our agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u132	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u133	Mrs. Deputy, are you asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u134	Mr President, the closure of this point is lacking, which is the responsibility of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u135	Madam Member, the times we can see on the screen relate to the point that has just been discussed and are already exhausted.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u136	Mr. President, the screen is not up to date. There is no time left for closing this point, which in this case falls to the NAP for having been the author of the schedule.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u137	Madam Member, I admit that you are right, but that is not the indication I have of the services. Anyway, you have the floor, Your Honor. I'm asking you to hurry.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u138	Mr President, I have no doubt that this is the case. Therefore, with your permission, I will turn to the closure of the third point of our agenda. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to thank the debate here on the issue of improvement of note and to say that it entered, about a month ago, a draft resolution of the NAP that recommended the Government to reflect and solve this problem. But, as nothing was done, we had to present a bill. In view of the position of this House, of this whole Parliament, the Socialist Party insists not to reconsider its position and insists on talking about stability. Only if it's injustice stability, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Carla Sousa, in her speech, said that other injustices will be created and that we are defending the return of all the tests. No, Mrs. Member. What is proposed is, in fact, the single and simple realization of internal grade improvement examinations, which have created an injustice in the model of access to higher education. This must, of course, be discussed. We have already put the issue to Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, at the head of a regiment hearing, so we hope he can lose the fears he has and hold this same debate. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we remember that the Socialist Party that claims health rules is the same Socialist Party that does not want to reduce the number of students by class and that considers that classes and schools are indeed safe. In fact, it is the same Socialist Party that managed to carry out national examinations last year, in a context of security and efficiency. We're talking, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, only a residual number of grade improvement exams. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Education did not even ask the students how many they wanted to do so and, even today, the NAP is waiting for this response from the Ministry. But we advance the data: it will possibly be about 5000 exams, possibly with the forecast of 19 000 students. We repeat that we are talking about a residual number of tests to be carried out! We therefore hope that, in the field of expertise, the Socialist Party will then be able to change its position.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u139	Mr Miguel Costa Matos, from the PS Parliamentary Group, who has 32 seconds, has the floor. It is only now that the times have been added, so when I recently took up the conduct of the works, I had no such vision. I'm sorry and I'm asking the services that, next time, it's not like this. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Education is a right and it was thanks to April that we could democratize higher education. Higher education is the place of knowledge and dream and it is the place where we open the doors to the professions and to the social elevator. If, this year, we had 62 000 candidates and 57 000 enrolled in higher education, much was due to the strengthening of social action, the reduction of the value of propines, the opening of education to new curricular offers or vocational education. That is why, Mr President, I would like to stress again that it is of the greatest importance that we know how to renew those exceptional measures that we adopted last year, because if we have done so much to encourage participation in higher education, we cannot ignore that this pandemic has also introduced new ones and exacerbated the old inequalities in access to higher education. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to renew measures such as non-accounting for the limitation period and access to special times. That's what the PS proposes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u141	Finally, we will move to the fourth point on our agenda, which is the general discussion of Law Projects Nos 700 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Extends the deadline for cleaning fuel management networks in forest areas and prevents the fines provided for in Decree-Law No 124 / 2006 of 28 June from being doubled, 773 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Defines a temporary contingency regime for secondary fuel management networks and 775 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Training of authorities and review of criteria for fuel management. Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor to present his initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As the Greens have been warning, for a long time, the cleaning of fuel management networks represents one of the structural prevention measures of the Forest Defense System against Fires, assuming an extreme importance with regard to efforts to minimize risk and reduce the severity of forest fires, allowing greater resilience and security to populations. It was also for these reasons that Decree-Law No 124 / 2006 made it mandatory that, in the forest areas previously defined in the Municipal Defence Plan against Fires, the entities responsible for the road network, rail, transport lines and distribution of electricity and natural gas would begin to provide fuel management in a lateral range of neighboring land, in an area not less than 10 m. At the same time, the owners, tenants, exploiters or entities which, in any way, hold land adjacent to buildings inserted in rural areas are required to manage fuel in an area not less than 50 m, measured from the outer woodland of the building, where this range covers land occupied with forests, bushes or natural pastures, or in an area less than 100 m, in the case of population clusters inserted or bordering with forest spaces. Following the major and violent fires of 2017, the Government would eventually amend Decree-Law No 124 / 2006, making even more stringent the standards for fuel management. On the other hand, since 2017, in the various State budgets, the values of the fines established in this legal diploma have been doubled. It happens that the pandemic we are living in has brought a different reality, which also interfered with cleaning the land, particularly due to the confinement of the citizens, the ageing of the owners most susceptible to infection by SARS-CoV-2 or the reduction in people's incomes, in particular those who remained in layoffs or those who lost to employment. In 2020, the government, comprising the critical moment, has just twice extended the last of which by 31 May the deadline ending on 15 March for owners to be able to ensure the cleaning of forest land. The same happened this year, but already after having entered the Green DOS Bill in this House, and yet the deadline was extended until May 15, without any reduction or suspension of the fines for the owners who, for the above reasons, did not carry out the cleaning of their land. Now, considering that, at the time of the presentation of the State budget for 2021 last October, it was more than foreseeable that the severity of the pandemic should be extended over time, the Greens proposed that in 2021 the fines for those who were unable to clean their land should not be compounded for the reasons we have just mentioned. In fact, taking into account the fact that many citizens are taking advantage of the weekend to clean their land, some of which are long kilometres away from their residence; taking into account the measures that have been established in the fight against the pandemic, where a significant part of the population has been forced to be confined, since November, to be confined at home, thus making it impossible to travel, for example, between municipalities; also taking into account that many owners, by their advanced age, by obligation or voluntary confinement, and that many others have lost income, The Greens believe that, in this context we live in this pandemic, the deadline for fuel management should be extended by 31 May. for the same reasons, taking into account the pandemic situation, The Greens also consider that in 2021 the fines referred to in Article 38. the Decree-Law No 124 / 2006 should not be increased to double. These are exactly the two objectives that are intended to be achieved, with this legislative initiative that The Greens have scheduled for discussion and vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u143	You have the floor by the PCP Parliamentary Group, Mr. João Dias, to present your bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP brings to the plenary a draft law defining a temporary contingency regime for the networks of secondary fuel management bands because we believe it is necessary to correct the procedures laid down in Article 215. the State Budget Act for 2021, concerning the exceptional regime of secondary networks of fuel management bands. In our view, the State Budget Act establishes a procedure which is not feasible for the authorities. In other words, if the landowners do not carry out their cleaning until 15 March, the authorities will do so by 31 May. That is to say, the 75-day deadline for the authorities to manage fuel is fixed. As you know the honourable Members. Members, the Government has extended this deadline of the owners to 15 May, leaving only 15 days for the authorities to be able to assume what has not been done or could not be done by the owners. We understand that it is not the competence of the authorities to do in 75 days, and much less in 15 days, which the owners have not been able to do, or have not done, with all the administrative procedures that this implies. Even with a simplified procedure under public procurement, this is not feasible and realises the deresponsibility of the central forest policy administration. Mrs. Members, the Government requires the authorities to do what the government itself does not do in the areas of its direct responsibility. It is in this sense that the CFP presents this legislative initiative, in which we propose a surgical correction, removing the inadequate and non-executable standards, without any impact on the State budget for 2021. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP also does not agree that a large part of the fire prevention charges are being transferred to the owners, which, in the mini-fund forest regions, will impose costs on the holding which, in many cases, will compromise the maintenance of forest activity. More serious is the fact that there is genuine persecution of farmers and forest producers, with the threat of double-value fines. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this year it is necessary to take into account that the conditioning of the exercise of economic activities and the movement between municipalities, as a result of the current pandemic situation, has also been restricted the available capacity to carry out the cleaning work of forest land within the legally established deadlines, with prejudice to its owners and municipalities, to whom this is being carried out. We can't forget either, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, that we are in a particularly rainy year, which means that many of the cleanings that were done a month ago and more than a month ago are already in a condition of necessary intervention, which, in turn, implies problems, difficulties and costs added to the owners. The Government cannot take responsibility for its obligations in this area by transferring them to the authorities. Nor do we accompany those who want to train the authorities for these work. This means that, like the Government, they agree with the transfer of charges to the authorities with regard to the cleaning of forest land. The government, to suggest that it did everything to do, hides behind legislation, much of it done in a hurry, which we do not follow. We do, however, want to be given answers as to the concrete measures which are the responsibility of the government and which must be implemented. For the PCP, defending the forest and the rural world, beyond the guarantee of their ordering and betting, with income for owners, in indigenous species, requires employment, public services and public investment. Another agroforestry policy is needed; a common agricultural policy is required compatible with family agriculture and the rural world of the mini-fundio; an effective regional development with investment in agricultural and forestry activities is needed. That's because without people, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to manage the forest. The CFP insists that concrete and immediate mechanisms are needed to support family agriculture and small forest producers and not prosecuting and double fines.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u145	Mr Ricardo Vicente of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The existence of forest fuel management bands is an essential factor for the protection of populations and territories. It is essential because it reduces the speed and intensity of fire and because it also depends on the success of many fire fighting interventions. These fuel management ranges are of particular importance when we have a standardized landscaped territory with eucalyptus and bravado pine monocultures. They are too important territorial resilience factors to be secondaryized. We have two essential difficulties to deal with. The first is that the window of opportunity is short to ensure the management of the fuel tracks. In recent months, we have had rapid growth of vegetation that forced the current intervention. I remember that the fires of 2017, in Pedrogão, occurred in June, so the intervention space is short. On the other hand, we have scarce means at local level to ensure this intervention in the necessary dimension. The pandemic caused delays, it is true, but the risk period for fires does not change as a result of the pandemic. Public policy must therefore respond to these two major difficulties in a structural way. And it is even structural: in the long term, it is necessary to change the forest, ensure a different, diversified forest, based on native species, and to abandon the rapid growth of the eucalipto and the brave pine tree in much of the territory, thus gaining resilience. But in the short term, structural measures are also needed, requiring updated ecological intervention criteria, because current ones are wrong. The Independent Technical Observatory ( ITO ) told us, in a study already produced in 2019, that these criteria on the location and size of fuel management bands are inadequate. We have ranges of equal application fuel management in large-scale, mountain or plains territories. We have the same criteria for a diversified forest, with native plants or eucalyptus monoculture. But it is necessary to create differentiation in this intervention. For this reason, the Left Block today presents a bill that gives the Government three months to ensure that these criteria are reviewed in order to improve efficiency in the application of the resources we have. But more than that is needed, because the legislation requires municipalities to replace private owners in the absence of their intervention to ensure the protection of the population and the local territory. However, legislation was created to hold municipalities accountable and the authorities were never able to respond to this need. And that is why the Left Block brings about a bill to empower the authorities, so that by the end of the year, in a participatory way, the authorities and the government are able to lift needs and create a training program so that it is possible to intervene and respond to this need, protecting the territory, protecting the property of people at local level and learning from the great fires that have occurred in recent years. This is the bill that the Left Block brings to the vote. So I want to leave a word on the other projects we are enjoying. The ENP proposes the postponement until May 31st of the interventions and the Left Block accompanies this postponement, proposals with which we do not fully agree, because the management of fuels on railways, on roads, on power distribution networks, whether electricity or gas, cannot start only in June, as proposed by the ENP project, must be maintained on May 31st, as was previously. These entities, such as EDP, did not have difficulties arising from the pandemic, as did the small owners. These, yes, we recognize, but not the others. On the other hand, the CFP goes further: it not only ignores the deadlines that have been set, as it even proposes the suspension of all legal deadlines to ensure fuel management interventions. The fires have not gone away with the pandemic and the fire risks require responsibility over all the means of intervention we have in our territory. And that is why it is important that these deadlines remain, that we have this responsibility and that by the end of 2021 we create ways of empowering the authorities, which are an active element of civil protection at local level and which has never been able to meet the legal requirements assigned to them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u147	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by congratulating the different political forces for bringing this important issue to debate, because indeed, for the NAP, fires are not won in their fight, only in their prevention. Unfortunately, the fight against fire itself will be increasingly difficult due to extreme climate events that increase in quantity and intensity from year to year, with phenomena such as the terrible fires of 2017, which so many lives have taken off in Portugal, and which also reach an incalculable number of wild animals or pets, as happened in Santo Tirso, or more recently, animals held in livestock farms. This phenomenon, we know, is transversal to other countries. We see the fires that occurred in Australia in 2019 or that have been occurring frequently in California and that are beginning to occur more and more in northern Europe. It is impossible for a fire fighting device to respond fully to the increase in the amount of fires, as reality has already shown us. This means that the first line of action must be, necessarily and urgently, prevention, so that fires do not occur or, when they occur, they are with the lowest possible intensity so that one can fight them. And, in this regard, Portugal still faces great challenges, since, contrary to what is usual in other countries, the vast majority of forest property is private, with extensive abandoned areas and numerous owners. We therefore need to adapt our forest to the climate reality we live in. This will only be possible through forest reorganisation, by placing on native and fire-resistant species, in the creation of mechanisms for removing obstacles to the resizing of plots for forest management and in the creation of incentives for ecosystem services by betting on species with positive and fire-resistant environmental impacts. This path is crucial, whether in the prevention of fires or in the retention of water resources in the soil and in the fight against desertification that threatens 58 % of our territory. The conclusion of the forest register is also imperative and the creation of measures to encourage forest reorganisation, at the level of the species and their management are, in our view, the path to fire prevention, the retention of water resources in the soil and the fight against desertification of the territory, while at the same time promoting a resurgence of forest activity in so far virtually abandoned land, with positive economic impacts and job creation, particularly in the transition to the green economy. Just as it is also necessary to ensure the direct intervention of the State in cleaning up abandoned forest land which has so far had no solution. The National Plan of Integrated Management of Rural Fires, recently approved by the Government, does not, in our view, give the country the necessary answer. It is a Plan that sets out principles and goals, but does not implement them. However, it shakes the State's responsibilities for the people and for local authorities. It is not the people — who have already suffered from fires and who have been in the front line to help — who have to solve the problem of forest reorganisation in Portugal, that is, the State itself. Three years have passed since the last major tragedies in Portugal at the level of fires. More than time for concrete measures or plans that do not emerge from the role, we need strategies and concrete action and measures that we continue, not only ourselves, but the whole country, to wait.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u149	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr João Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD follows the basic motivations of the initiatives of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party regarding the expansion of deadlines and suspension of fines to rural and forest owners for secondary fuel management bands and also for the training of the authorities, revisiting the management model of these fuel ranges. The PSD advocates the need to review the deadlines and procedures for 2021 of the municipal fire forest defence plans, as was also demonstrated in our draft resolution approved by all, except for PS, in March. However, we have doubts about the way and the way in which the ENP and the CFP propose it. We would prefer it to be autonomous, without doubting the amendment of the State budget law to 2021, the so-called "law-work". As for the proposal of the Left Block, it has a different form, it has a relevant content and deserves a debate with its respective consequences in terms of proposals in the specialty. We believe that Parliament should be part of these amendments that the ITO proposes and not be a mere government spectator. But the government's will to involve and collect information from society is short, as it has shown us in many areas of governance. As I mentioned earlier, the PSD made a recommendation to the Government in February for the extension of the deadline for management work in 2021, pointing to the deadline for 31 May for owners, therefore the same period as indicated by the CFP and the ENP. The government, after delaying the debate, and the PSD trailer, acknowledged this need, this requirement, and decided to extend the deadline for May 15 for owners, tenants, tenants or entities who, in any event, hold confined land to buildings in rural areas, forgetting the authorities, which is clearly insufficient for the PSD. And it is insufficient for two reasons: firstly, due to the consequences that the state of emergency and its confinement imposed on all economic activities, including agroforestry, and on the movement of people, making it impossible to comply with the legal deadlines for land cleaning; secondly, due to the climatic conditions and the enormous rainfall that has occurred since the beginning of the year, which lead to the greatest growth of shrubs and other fuel material. If the deadlines had not been extended, if they remained on March 15, the owners and the authorities would have to do the cleaning again in May. However, this would have unbearable financial consequences, without correspondence in mitigating the danger of fire, since the levels of humidity are quite high.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u152	Hazardous and inadequate would be the schedule for the management of fuel bands. The policy cannot be stagnant, closed in itself and gripped within predetermined deadlines. You have to take into account the changes that occur around us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u153	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u154	It would have been of the most fundamental good sense that the deadline could have been extended by the end of May, as proposed by the PSD, in order to allow owners and authorities the time necessary to carry out the cleaning and management, without any increase in expenditure, fines or reduction of funds, as proposed by the reduction of 20% of the PEF ( Forest Education Programme ) for non-compliant authorities. Luckily, the government didn't want it. Let us hope that this attitude will not result in more penalties for the rural world. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the forest, as a fundamental sector of our country's economy, and in the fight against climate change, deserves much more support from public policy. The National Plan for Integrated Management of Rural Fires and its national action plan can be contributions in a country that is most resilient to fire—we certainly agree. But it is also essential to promote the yield of the forest of conservation and production. Landscape plans are not enough, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Investment, growth and income plans are needed, because only in this way will the forest be profitable, resilient and sustainable, under the penalty of the total abandonment to which it has been assisted. This is the only way to secure people in these rural territories, because without people, all plans are doomed to failure.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u155	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u156	The forest that burns is usually without professional or business management. Therefore, the problem is not in shape, it is in practice, since these policies have a very weak orientation of production, of business vision, which makes them wrong, because in the field they do not work, because there are not those who implement them and the central State and the authorities are not enough. It is necessary to involve the owners, to equip them, to train them, to place specialized technicians on the ground and to pay them well. It is necessary to help them organize themselves in managing entities, support them financially, under the penalty of losing another opportunity, but now more serious, because, with the PRR and with the next support framework, never, but never, there were so many financial support and resources to put forest reform into practice. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u157	Mr Cecilia Meireles spoke on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The forest and the forest sector are of fundamental importance to Portugal. I believe, moreover, that we can say that there is a general consensus on the importance of the sector for the development of the country, either from an economic point of view or, above all, from the point of view of sustainability, a way of life of populations and even the development of less urban or less densely populated regions. We all also know that 97% of our forest area is private, which is a very high percentage, and that 87% of this area is very small, has no more than 3 ha. This means, of course, that there are different problems that are generated by this feature and that it is up to the State to have a role to help its solution. from our point of view, which is already less consensual in this area, investment incentive and good forest management policies are a stimulus to owners, who often do not have the financial capacity to manage their property and therefore need these support. Therefore, as regards the three draft laws under discussion, in particular with regard to the obligation to extend the deadline for cleaning up the fuel management networks — which the Government has already replied to — I would like to say that we voted in favour of this rule which the ENP proposed in the State budget for 2021, so there will be no change to our position. As for the PCP diploma, although there is some openness to be able to discuss it with another depth in the field of expertise, I have doubts that the suspension of almost all regimes is the right answer. Finally, with regard to the bill of the Left Block, not disagreeing with the ideas that are mentioned in it—we will abstain—I would like to say that it is not a real bill, but a draft resolution. This is a bill with an article that says that the government must do, within three months, things that are completely generically stated. I don't disagree with the idea, but that's not a bill. I believe that Parliament should even meditate on whether this is the kind of legislation it wants to produce, because this does not seem to me, at least from a technical point of view, even correct.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u159	Mr Santinho Pacheco, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If an Aquiline or a Camilo, to speak of the great authors of our rurality, wanted to give this legislative episode a title, it could well be: « Prevent in time, remedy out of time». The Independent Technical Observatory classifies fuel material management as a preventive activity of the greatest relevance in mitigating and combating forest fires and we all agree that cleaning is an effective action in safeguarding personal and material damage in the structural firefighting. The responsibility for cleaning the tracks under consideration lies, on the first scale, with the owners of the properties and, ultimately, if the owners do not do so, the municipalities must ensure the essential cleaning for the prevention policy that avoids the great fires of autumn or even throughout the year. The Parliament is today, 15 April, called to discuss and vote on three draft laws: one from the ENP, which intends to extend the deadline for cleaning fuel management networks in forest areas and to revoke the duplication of fines provided for in Decree-Law No 124 / 2006 ; another from the CFP, which defines a temporary contingency regime for secondary fuel management networks; and another from the Left Block, which bets on the training of autrquias and on the revision of criteria for fuel management. We are at the doors of summer, so now amend the legislation in force, when the critical period of rural fires and forest fires is really coming — Pedrogão happened on 17 June, only for very strong and urgent reasons. These legislative initiatives basically only aim to extend for 15 days the duration of intervention in the field of those responsible. The aim is still to drag the suppletive action of the authorities in the summer. To eliminate the possibility of duplication of fines is something else, with which we would even agree and that we would vote in favour if it were possible on a regular basis. If everything goes well, the merit is of the proponents, if everything goes wrong it is the government's fault. What would not be said if it were the Government or the PS to propose such legislation at this time of year! It would not be long before the first fire in June accused the government of irresponsibility and negligence. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u161	The Government extended for two months, from 15 March to 15 May, the deadline for carrying out fuel management work. This is the possible and permissible deadline, without jeopardising the territory, to carry out cleaning work on the fuel management strips. The last fortnight of May is the time of the municipalities, with responsibility, to act in addition in priority risk areas. From June on, the danger is real. Acting in the forest and in the rural territories is challenging the monster of fire. It is unacceptable that public authorities would like to grant the State a right which is forbidden to farmers and forest owners, pastors and farmers: working on the ground. Decree-Law No 22 -A / 2021, dated 17 March, extended until 15 May the deadline for carrying out the work of fuel management. Until 15 May, in the population agglomerations, it is mandatory to clean external protection of minimum width not less than 100 m. According to the State Budget Act for 2021, until 31 May, the municipalities guarantee the realization of all fuel management works, and must replace the owners in non-compliance by administering the fuel provided for in the law, by communication and by notice. As for the capacity of the authorities for fuel management, it is foreseen in the National Strategy for Preventive Civil Protection, in the stage of public discussion. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a certain amount of legislative fury with regard to forests. Nothing, never, okay! And the COVID-19 doesn't justify everything. Today we are discussing something that the government has already dealt with and this time well. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u162	We therefore have no choice but to vote against the bills here under discussion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u163	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u164	Mr Santinho Pacheco, I am glad that he has a literary vein because, when I was listening to him, I remembered a quote from Oscar Wilde — who I do not appreciate much — who says the following: « Our tragedies are always a deep banality for others». Do not admit that the Socialist Party and the Socialist Government have managed this issue as a true national tragedy is not to be in this country at the time we are. [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] You want me to leave the country? I'm not going out, no! I remind you, Mr President, that today, while you are sitting there, the Director of the SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal ) has requested resignation. He resigned a few minutes ago! This is a socialist tragedy, which cannot be carried out by a communication management system when there are only a few months to fire again in Portugal. [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] The arrival will accompany projects that want to avoid duplication of fines and propose suspension of deadlines. We cannot but say that true tragedy was a law which commanded the authorities to act on a matter in which they had neither resources nor capacity, becoming mere collectors of fines and taxes. That, sir, is a tragedy that has the name and chance of the Socialist Party! As it also has the name and chance of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u165	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u166	I will finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u167	You really have to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u168	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying only this: not even the public lands, which are state, are being cleaned up. And do we want the owners to meet the cleaning deadline by the end of April? Oh, my God! Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u169	To close the debate, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the ENP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to stress that I feel that the justice and the opportunity of the Greens initiative, which is very peaceful with regard to fines, seem to me to be consensual with some doubts about the deadlines. We would like to say that we are talking about postponement for only 15 days, since the government, however, after the delivery of the DOS Greens project, extended the deadline until 15 May. So we're talking about a deadline between 15 and 31 May. In any case, we would like to express our full readiness to receive other contributions, particularly those left by the Left Block. I would also like to say to Mr Santinho Pacheco that the PS is not obliged to vote against. I could perfectly vote in favour later, in the specialty, we compose the text in a way that pleases the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u171	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u172	And if it were not, in the overall final vote, the Socialist Party would vote against it. So they did not understand, so each one will take on his or her responsibilities. This proposal is surrounded by justice, because it makes no sense that the State requires people to clean up their land while at the same time forcing them to stay at home. How can people clean the grounds if they can't leave home? Oh, my God! In other words, the state demands the impossible! The impossible cannot be demanded of people. People can't comply, because the state won't let them do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u173	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u174	And the state cannot demand and then prevent people from obeying the law. It doesn't make sense! That is why we believe that, in this pandemic context, the deadline for fuel management should be extended, with the opening I mentioned at the beginning of this closing intervention. for the same reasons, in view of the pandemic situation, the Greens consider that in 2021 the fines relating to this process should not be increased to double. Finally, I just want to say that the Greens will vote in favour of the PCP and the Left Block bills.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u175	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this debate and also of today's agenda, so we will enter the voting period. 227 Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore have more than enough quorum to proceed to the vote. Let's start with Vote Project No 536 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by PS ) — regretting the death of Jorge Coelho, who will be read by Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « On April 7, the former deputy, minister and entrepreneur Jorge Coelho died. I was 66 years old. Natural de Contenças, in the municipality of Mangualde, Viseu district, Jorge Paulo Sacadura Almeida Coelho was born on July 17, 1954, studied at the College of Santa Maria and São José and graduated in Organization and Business Management, at the Higher Institute of Economic and Financial Sciences of the Technical University of Lisbon. Politically active before and after the Revolution of Cravos, Jorge Coelho became a member of the Socialist Party in 1982, where he performed the most diverse functions and virtually all positions, except that of Secretary-General, by option, and where he remained as a militant until his death. Jorge Coelho had a diverse professional activity, known to all, a committed political course, having played the most important public positions. He began, still very young, in 1983, as head of office of the Secretary of State for Transport of the IX Constitutional Government, Francisco Murteira Nabo. Later, between 1989 and 1991, he was Deputy Secretary for Education and Public Administration of the Government of Macao. In 1995, in the XIII Government, led by António Guterres, he took on the position of Deputy Minister, who, in 1997, accumulated with that of Minister of Internal Administration. It is due to the launch in Portugal of the concept of the citizen store. In 1999 he took office as Minister of the Presidency and Social Equipment and in 2000 passed on to the Minister of State and Social Equipment. Following the fall of Ponte Hintze Ribeiro, from Entre-os-Rios, in Castelo de Paiva, on 4 March 2001, he called for the resignation of the government, assuming political responsibility for the accident because for Jorge Coelho, ‘the guilt cannot die single. ’ He was a Member in V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, and X Legislatures and was Chairman of the Local Power Commission, Planning of the Territory and the Environment. He was State Counsellor, elected by the Assembly of the Republic, between 2005 and 2009. In 2006, he resigned from the mandate of a Member and abandoned all partisan positions to engage exclusively in professional activity, taking over the role of CEO of the Mota-Engil Group in 2008. He was a commentator in the Quadratura do Cerculo programme, in the SIC News, later called Circulatura do Quadrado, when he moved to TVI24, where he was replaced by myself from September 2020. Jorge Rabbit was a natural person. Its many political and human qualities—intelligence, political arguance, competence, organizational and labor capacity, anemic strength, joy of living, witty, sense of responsibility—have been underlined by many friends of all ages and political quadrants. It was truly exemplary in the way he cultivated friendship and in his genuine ability to pay attention to others, to be close and to say ‘present’, without ever having time or effort. Maybe that's why he left too early, but he leaves us an exceptional legacy, the memory of a politician with a strategic vision, a loving friend, a good man and an immense longing. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Jorge Coelho and conveys condolences to his daughter, his wife, his son-in-law, his grandchildren, his family, all his friends and, in particular, to this parliamentary group. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u177	Before we vote, I just wanted to say that this is a vote that I join with disgust, but with all responsibility. I inform the House that the widow, Cecília Coelho, the daughter, Maria João Coelho, the son-in-law, Pedro Arrais, the sister, Maria Teresa Coelho, and the former deputy Antonio Ramos Preto, to whom I greet, presenting my condolences. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the legislative part of the draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[General applause, stand up.]] I call on the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs to associate himself with this vote on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u178	Mr President, I just wanted to say that, of course, the Government is associated with this vote of regret by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and that, of course, it has very great respect for the figure, history and all that Jorge Coelho has meant, either for the Socialist Party or for the governments that the Socialist Party has led. We present our feelings to your family and the whole socialist family.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u179	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following this vote, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the votes. [[At the moment, Vice-President José Manuel Pureza was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u180	I asked the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who are looking for a place or leaving the Chamber to do so as quickly as possible so that we can resume the votes. [[Pause.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote No 537 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport and subscribed by a PSD Member ) — Greetings for the National Student Day. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1187 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Andorra. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] If there is no opposition, we will vote in general in general in the field of expertise and in the overall final vote, the Proposal for a Law No 77 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Determines the cessation of legal decrees published between 1986 and 1991. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We shall, in general, vote on the Bill No 79 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Extension of the value added tax exemption for intra-Community transfers and acquisitions of goods necessary to combat the effects of the COVID 19 pandemic. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The proposal goes down to 5. the Commission. We passed the supplementary script on the speciality of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 95 / XIV — Approves special public procurement measures and amends the Public Contracts Code, as annexed to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January 2008, the Code of Procedure in Administrative Courts, as annexed to Law No 15 / 2002 of 22 February 2002 and Decree-Law No 200 / 2008 of 9 October 2008. We begin with the vote on the proposal by the PS amending Article 1 ( d ). that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, IL and the non-registered member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[(d) Amendment to Decree-Law No 200/2008 of 9 October approving the legal regime applicable to the organic structure and operation of purchasing power stations.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u181	We now vote on the proposal by the Socialist Party to amend Article 8 ( b ). o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, IL and the non-registered member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[(b) supplied by holders of the Family Agriculture Statute, approved by Decree-Law No 64/2018 of 7 August; or (...)]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u182	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the Socialist Party to amend Article 10. o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, IL and the non-registered member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It is as follows: Article 10 Electronic processing The procedures provided for in the preceding article shall be processed by an electronic platform used by the contracting authority, without prejudice to the provisions of Article 115(1)(g) of the Code of Public Contracts in respect of prior consultations with a view to the conclusion of contracts of a value lower than those referred to in Article 19(1)(c), Article 20(1)(c), Article 21(1)(b), or Article 31(4) of that Code, as the case may be.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u183	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the Socialist Party to replace Article 11. o. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PSD and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against BE, CDS-PP and PAN and with abstentions from PCP, PEV, CH, IL and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It is as follows: Article 11 Dispensation of grounds The contracting authority shall be exempted from the duties to substantiate the decision not to contract by lot in accordance with Article 46a(2) of the Public Contracts Code and the setting of the basic price in accordance with Article 47(3) of the same Code.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u184	We shall vote on the proposal by the Socialist Party to eliminate Article 14 ( 2 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, ENP and IL, votes against BE, CDS-PP and PAN and abstentions by CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now vote on the proposal by the Socialist Party to replace Article 17. o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE and CDS-PP.]] [[It is as follows: Article 17 Court of Auditors 1 — Contracts concluded following public tender procedures or restricted invitation to tender by reason of simplified qualification adopted under the provisions of Section I of this chapter of value equal to or greater than that laid down in Article 48 of Law No 98/97 of 26 August 1997 in its current wording shall be subject to prior scrutiny by the Court of Auditors, in general terms. 2 — Contracts concluded following any procedures adopted pursuant to Section I of this chapter of value below that laid down in Article 48 of Law No 98/97 of 26 August 1997 in its current wording shall be submitted electronically to the Court of Auditors for the purpose of simultaneous supervision up to 10 days after their conclusion and accompanied by their administrative procedure. 3 — In the event of a finding of any illegality under the concomitant supervision by the Court of Auditors: (a) Where illegality is ascertained before the start of the performance of the contract, the contracting authority shall be notified in order to submit the prior review and not give it prior to the visa, on the basis of financial liability, in accordance with Article 49(2) of Law No 98/97 of 26 August in its current wording; (b) where implementation has already been initiated, and even if the contract has already been fully implemented, the audit report shall be sent to the Public Prosecutor for the purpose of carrying out any financial responsibilities pursuant to Article 49(3) of Law No 98/97 of 26 August in his current wording. 4 — The consignment provided for in paragraph 2 shall be subject to the effectiveness of the respective contract, irrespective of its reduction or not in writing, in particular for the purpose of any payments.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u185	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the Socialist Party to replace Article 18. o. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PSD and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP, PAN and PEV and abstentions from BE, CDS-PP, CH, IL and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[(b) a member appointed by the Council for the Prevention of Corruption; (c) a member appointed by the Institute for Public Markets, Real Estate and Construction, I.P. (IMPIC, I.P.). 2 — The term of office of the members of the Commission shall be three years, in any case ending when their mission referred to in paragraph 1 of the following Article is fulfilled. 3 — They may not be members of the Commission holding political positions or of high public positions in accordance with Articles 2 and 3 of Law No 52/2019 of 31 July 2019, as well as holders of positions in governing or supervising bodies of political parties, representative organisations of workers or employers. 4 — The members of the Commission shall not be affected by their placement, social benefits or permanent employment as a result of the performance of their mandate. 5 — The performance of the Commission member's term of office shall be counted as a period of service for all purposes, except for those who assume the effective exercise of professional activity. 6 — The members of the Commission shall be treated as senior management of 1st degree for remuneration purposes and shall also be entitled to cost and transport aid in accordance with the law. 7 — The members of the Commission shall act independently in the performance of their duties under this Act and may not request or receive instructions or guidance from the Assembly of the Republic, the Government or any other public or private entity. 8 — Without prejudice to the provisions on guarantees of impartiality in the Code of Administrative Procedure, the members of the Commission shall not participate, directly or indirectly, individually or through an entity to which they are bound, in the procedures and contracts referred to in paragraph 1 of the following Article. 9 — Except where necessary for the performance of their duties, the members of the Commission shall be bound by the obligation of secrecy with regard to the information, which shall not be relevant for the purpose of monitoring compliance with the requirements of impartiality and transparency to which they are restricted, to which they have access over the procedures and contracts referred to in paragraph 1 of the following Article.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u186	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the Socialist Party to add to Article 19. o. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PSD, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP, PAN and PEV and abstains from BE, CDS-PP, CH and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It is as follows: Article 19 Independent Commission: mission and competences 1 — Without prejudice to the powers of the Court of Auditors, the Commission shall have the task of monitoring and monitoring the procedures adopted under Section I of this Chapter, as well as the conclusion and implementation of the respective contracts, in particular by monitoring compliance with the requirements of transparency and impartiality applicable to it, as well as the implementation of the contracts concluded following those procedures. 2 — For the performance of its task, it shall be for the Commission: (a) to prepare and submit to contracting entities recommendations, generic or specific, on the processing of the procedures referred to in paragraph 1, the conclusion and implementation of their contracts; (b) to prepare quarterly evaluation reports on the processing of the procedures referred to in paragraph 1, the conclusion and implementation of their contracts, which shall be forwarded to the Government, the Assembly of the Republic, the Court of Auditors and the Public Prosecutor. 3 — The recommendations and evaluation reports drawn up by the Commission shall be published on the public procurement portal and, in the case of contracts for the execution of projects financed or co-financed by European funds, also on the transparency portal provided for in Article 360 of Law No 75-B/2020 of 31 December. 4 — The Commission has access to all the information necessary for the exercise of its powers, and all contracting entities are required to provide it with timely information and additional information and collaboration required. 5 — Without prejudice to other applicable general terms, any failure to fulfil the obligation to provide information provided for in the previous paragraph shall be disclosed in the six-monthly reports referred to in paragraph 2(b) and shall be the subject of participation in the Public Prosecutor's Office for the purpose of determining any responsibilities. 6 — Without prejudice to the provisions of the following paragraph, the administrative, logistical and financial support of the Commission shall be provided by the Assembly of the Republic. 7 — IMPIC, I.P. it shall ensure the establishment of a section specifically dedicated to the procedures and contracts referred to in paragraph 1 on the public procurement portal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u187	We now vote on the proposal by the Socialist Party to add to Article 20. o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It is as follows: Article 20 Counter-ordination The minimum and maximum amounts of the fines provided for in Articles 456 to 458 of the Code of Public Contracts shall be increased to double when, in the context of pre-contractual procedures covered by the special public procurement measures provided for in this Law, the corresponding counter-ordinations shall be applied, if applicable.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u188	The next votes shall relate to Article 19. that of the Decree, renumbered as Article 21. the proposal to amend the Socialist Party. First we voted on the proposal by the Socialist Party to amend Article 24 ( 4 ( b ). that of the Public Contracts Code, contained in the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the NAP and abstentions from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[(b) where the notice of the previous invitation to tender has been published in the Official Journal of the European Union, all tenderers whose tenders have been excluded shall be invited only on the basis of Article 70(2);]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u189	We now vote on the proposal by the Socialist Party to amend Article 50 ( 3 ). that of the Public Contracts Code, contained in the Decree. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, ENP, CH and non-registered MEP Cristina Rodrigues and Abstaining from BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It is as follows: Article 50 clarifications, corrections and modification of the parts of procedure 1 — [...] 2 —... 3 — The list to be submitted to the competent body for the decision to contract shall, expressly and unequivocally, identify the errors or omissions detected, with the exception of those referred to in point (d) of the preceding paragraph and those which by them could only be detected at the stage of the implementation of the contract, acting with the objectively required diligence in view of the specific circumstances. We are now in a position to vote on the proposal, also by the PS authorship, amending Article 54a(1)(a) of the Public Contracts Code, contained in the Decree.]] [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and abstains from BE and CH.]] [[(a) entities whose main purpose is the social and professional integration of persons with disabilities or disadvantaged persons, provided that at least 30% of their workers have a properly recognised disability under the law or are disadvantaged, irrespective of the object and value of the contract to be concluded;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u190	We turn to the vote on the proposal also submitted by the PS to replace Article 54 ( ( b ) and ( c ). o -A of the same Public Contracts Code. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against CDS-PP and IL and abstentions from BE and CH.]] [[(b) micro, small or medium-sized undertakings duly certified in accordance with the law: (i) in procedures for the formation of contracts for the rental or acquisition of movable property or for the acquisition of services of value below the thresholds referred to in points (b) or (c) of paragraph 3 or (b) of paragraph 4 as the case may be; (ii) in procedures for the formation of contracts for the procurement of public works contracts or for the granting of public services and public works of domestic value at €500,00. (c) entities with headquarters and effective activity in the territory of the inter-municipal entity where the contracting authority is located, in procedures promoted by inter-municipal entities, associations of local authorities, local authorities or local companies for the formation of contracts for the rental or acquisition of movable property or acquisition of services of current use of less than the thresholds referred to in Article 474(4)(c) or (b), as the case may be.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u191	Mrs Cecilia Meireles asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u192	Mr President, it is a question regarding the supplementary script, because the following is the vote on the amendment to Article 54 ( d ). o -A, which I believe does not exist in the Socialist Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u193	There's been a break. The Bureau is not in a position to confirm what the honourable Member has just said, but, if so, there is no vote for an article that does not exist. That's true. Let us ask the services to do the favor of confirming this issue. I think you're being clarified right now. [[Pause.]] Mrs Cecilia Meireles will do us a favor. Are we going to make this vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u194	Mr. President, in case of doubt...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u195	All right, we shall proceed to this vote, which is at the end of page 5 of the supplementary script. We shall therefore vote on the proposal submitted by the PS amending Article 54 ( 1 ( d ). o -A of the Public Contract Code, contained in the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We turn to page 6 of the supplementary script and we will also vote on the Socialist Party's proposal to replace Article 370 ( 2 ). that of the Public Contracts Code. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PSD, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions of BE, the PAN, the CH and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It is as follows: 2 — The owner of the work may order the performance of additional works to the contractor if the contractor changes: (a) It cannot be carried out for technical reasons, in particular on the basis of the need to ensure interchangeability or interoperability with existing equipment, services or facilities; and (b) It causes a considerable increase in costs for the owner of the work.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u196	The following is the vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to replace Article 370 ( 4 ). the same Public Contracts Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD, IL, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] [[It is as follows: 4 — The value of the additional works must not exceed 50% of the initial contract price.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u197	We shall now vote on the proposal by the PS to eliminate Article 370 ( 6 ). that of this Public Contract Code. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] On page 7 of the supplementary script, we now have the vote on the proposal, also submitted by the PS, amending Article 378 ( 3 ). this Code on which the votes have taken place. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, ENP, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, CDS-PP, PAN and IL.]] [[It is as follows: 3 — The contractor shall bear half the value of the complementary works for the supply of errors and omissions whose detection was required at the stage of the formation of the contract, in accordance with Article 50, except for those that have been identified by the parties concerned but have not been expressly accepted by the owner of the work.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u198	We turn to the vote on the proposal by the PS amending Article 378 ( 5 ). the same Public Contracts Code. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, IL and non-registered MEP Cristina Rodrigues and Abstaining from BE, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It is as follows: 5 — The contractor still supports half of the value of the complementary works to supply errors and omissions which are not required to have been detected either at the stage of formation of the contract or within the time limit referred to in the previous paragraph, nor have they been identified by him within 30 days from the date on which it was required to be detected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u199	We now have the vote on the proposal by the PS amending Article 26. the Decree ( renumbered as Article 28 ). the proposal to amend the PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the ENP and abstentions of BE, the CH and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[Article 28 Entry into force This law shall enter into force 30 days after its publication.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u200	Mrs Cecilia Meireles asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u201	Mr President, it is in order to confirm the meaning of the CDS-PP in the vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to delete Article 370 ( 6 ). that of the Public Contracts Code. The CDS-PP vote is against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u202	All right. It does not change the outcome of the vote but is recorded. We turn to the last vote on the supplementary script, which is, of course, the vote on the new decree with the amendments introduced. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS, votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We are now returning to the main script, with the vote of the application submitted by the NAP, to the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory, without a vote of 60 days from the Bill No 625 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Promotes the prohibition of the manufacture, possession, use and sale of devices intended to capture wild birds not subject to kinetic exploitation. We then have the vote on the application by the ENP, which falls to the same Commission, without voting for the same 60-day period of Bill No 651 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Determines the prohibition on the manufacture, sale, purchase, use and import of traps and other devices used for illegal catches of wild birds. If there is no objection, we shall vote on the two demands together. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] These diplomas are down to 11. the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 863 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government implement measures aimed at the protection of non-cinegetic wild birds. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PAN, the PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the IL.]] Then we will vote on the Resolution Project No. 994 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Protection of non-cinegetic wild birds by strengthening monitoring, sensitization and monitoring measures. Mr. João Oliveira asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u203	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau a question of what the understanding of this next vote is. Since there were two draft resolutions and they would generally be voted on, since it was that of the Left Block rejected, now, if this vote is a final vote of deliberation, we need to make a split vote of paragraph 1. If it is understood that this is still a general vote and that it will be brought down to the Commission for discussion on the speciality, we do not need to make the breakdown. I would like to know what the Bureau's understanding of this matter is.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u204	Mr. João Oliveira, with all his frankness, would not be able to answer you with absolute certainty, but what I can presume is that this is a low vote on the Commission. I believe that the consequences of this will be known to you, but it is from the Commission's own script. Therefore, we will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 994 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Protection of non-cinegetic wild birds by strengthening monitoring, sensitization and monitoring measures. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and IL abstentions.]] [[Pause.]] The services confirm what they said and since Mr. João Oliveira has asked for the breakdown of the first point if that happens, then we will proceed again to this vote in accordance with the request of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u205	Mr President, I do not think it will be necessary to redeploy the whole vote. We will only have to vote on the first point, tearing it apart from the rest.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u206	All right. Let us then vote separately on paragraph 1 of draft resolution No. 994 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Protection of non-cinegetic wild birds by strengthening monitoring, sensitization and monitoring measures. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, PEV and CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 250 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Consecrates crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of a person unable to resist as public crimes (thirtyth amendment to the Criminal Code). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP and with votes in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We continue to vote, in general, on Bill No. 720 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Measures to protect victims of domestic violence within the framework of labour, social security and housing rights ( Nine amendments to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of their victims, approved by Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 and the second amendment to the scheme to grant compensation to victims of violent crimes and domestic violence, approved by Law No 104 / 2009 of 14 September ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We will now vote on the request by the IL to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees without a vote of 60 days from the Bill No 701 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Consecrates crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of a person unable to resist as public crimes. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 951 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Measures to prevent and combat domestic violence. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] Then we will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 1058 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 62 / 2019 and ensure the adoption of a code of conduct adapted to the Istanbul Convention, with a view to adequate news coverage of cases of domestic violence and to prevent an expected contagion effect. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PCP and CH abstentions.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 648 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the Penal Code, including economic or heritage violence in domestic violence crime, in respect of the Istanbul Convention. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the PCP and the ENP and the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 702 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the Penal Code, assigning the nature of public crime to crimes against sexual freedom and self-determination. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP and votes against BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] The general vote of Bill No. 768 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates the nature of public crimes of threats and coercion crimes, adapting them to the crime of domestic violence ( fifty-third amendment to the Criminal Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, ENP and CH and votes against BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We shall now vote on the application by the NAP to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees without a vote of 60 days from Bill No. 771 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Consecrates the public nature of the crimes of rape, sexual coercion, sexual fraud, sexual abuse of persons unable to resist and artificial procreation and extends the limitation of crimes against the sexual freedom and self-determination of minors and the crime of female genital mutilation by amending the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. The vote on the application, submitted by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, is now being taken down to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a 60-day vote of Bill No. 772 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — An amendment to the Criminal Code is made, assigning the nature of public crime to crimes of sexual coercion, rape and sexual abuse of a person unable to resist, ensuring compliance with the Convention of the Council of Europe for the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence ( Istanbul Convention ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The diploma also falls to 1. the Commission. We will now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 831 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government increase treatment participation in cancer patients. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 935 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strategic approach and urgent measures to combat cancer. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 752 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Alterre o Decree-Law No 22 - D / 2021, of March 22, enabling examination of improvement of internal grade in secondary school. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and abstentions by PS Deputies Filipe Pacheco and Miguel Matos.]] Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 747 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Extension of exceptional and temporary measures to safeguard the rights of higher education students. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. The general vote of Bill No. 726 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( PCP ) — Support measures for public higher education students. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u207	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u208	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u209	It is to be announced that the PSD Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u210	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Inês Sousa Real, are you asking for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u211	Yes, yes, Mr. President. It is to inform that the PAN Parliamentary Group will make a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u212	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will generally vote for Bill No. 760 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Alter the Decree-Law No 22 - D / 2021 of March 22, enabling students to perform examination of improvement of internal grade in secondary education. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and abstentions by PS Deputies Filipe Pacheco and Miguel Matos.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. The general vote of Bill No. 769 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alterres o Decree-Law No 10 - B / 2021, of 4 February, in its current wording, in order to allow students to conduct national examinations for the purpose of improving the final classification. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and abstentions by PS Deputies Filipe Pacheco and Miguel Matos.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 774 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — Alter the Decree-Law No 22 - D / 2021, of 22 March, eliminating the failure to perform the final tests of basic education of 9. the year of schooling and final national exams, when carried out by internal students, for the purposes of approval of disciplines and completion of secondary education and eliminating the exemption from the completion of final cycle tests, in cases where their completion is only intended for the purposes of further study. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u213	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u214	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u215	To announce that the PAN Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u216	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Miguel Matos, are you asking for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u217	Yes, Mr. President. It is to announce the delivery of a statement of vote on the last votes on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Deputies Eduardo Barroco de Melo, Filipe Pacheco, Joana Sá Pereira, Maria Begonha and Olavo Camera.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u218	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We continue with the general vote of Bill No. 700 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Extends the deadline for cleaning fuel management networks in forest areas and prevents the fines provided for in Decree-Law No 124 / 2006 of 28 June from being doubled. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PAN and IL.]] This diploma goes down to 7. the Commission. Mrs Lara Martinho asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u219	Mr President, it is to announce the delivery of a declaration of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u220	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 773 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Defines a temporary contingency regime for networks of secondary fuel management bands. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PSD, the PCP, the ENP and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PAN and the IL were rejected.]] The general vote is followed by Bill No. 775 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Training of authorities and review of criteria for fuel management. [[Subject to the vote, votes were cast against the PS, the PCP and the ENP in favour of BE, the NAP and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH, IL and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1102 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends that the process of awarding support to the culture sector be transparent. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PCP and ENP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u221	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u222	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u223	Mr President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u224	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 1003 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Ministry of the Environment respond to questions from Members in response to the systematic failure to comply with this duty. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 998 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Remunicipalization of the services provided by Alto-Minho Waters in Arcos de Valdevez, Caminha, Paredes de Cura, Ponte de Lima, Valença, Viana do Castelo and Vila Nova de Cerveira. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 1 PS (José Manuel Carpinteira) and 1 PSD (Eduardo Teixeira) and PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and 2 PS (Anabela Rodrigues and Silvia Torres).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u225	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u226	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u227	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u228	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. José Manuel Carpinteira, are you asking for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u229	Yes, Mr. President. It is to inform me that I will make a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u230	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1103 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the reversal of the process of setting up the Alto Minho Water Company and the return of water control to the municipalities of the region. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 1 PS (José Manuel Carpinteira) and 1 PSD (Eduardo Teixeira) and PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and 2 PS (Anabela Rodrigues and Silvia Torres).]] The gentlemen. Mr. Eduardo Teixeira, from the PSD, and Mr. José Manuel Carpinteira from the PS, inform the Bureau that they will also deliver each of the Members. Members, a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u231	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u232	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u233	Mr President, it is only to announce that I will also make a statement of vote on these last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u234	We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1139 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government promote a more ambitious and effective European Climate Law in combating the climate crisis within the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1143 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — By a European Law of Climate with ambitious goals. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] Let us now vote for draft resolution No 1166 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ) — Recommends that the Government, currently holding the Presidency of the European Council, should defend the substantial reduction in greenhouse gas emissions with a view to the fulfilment of the Paris Agreement. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u235	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u236	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u237	Mr President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on the last three draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u238	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1124 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government continue to support cultural production and artistic creation as an instrument for economic development and tourist differentiation of the Algarve. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 1180 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends the adoption of measures to share information for the monitoring and regulation of social support activities for elderly persons without accommodation. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] Mr. João Oliveira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u239	Mr President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u240	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote on draft resolution No 1107 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government allow national examinations carried out in this school year to improve the final classification. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP and CH.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions Nos 889 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to combat energy poverty, 1012 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By implementing a programme to combat energy poverty, 1084 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Recommends to the Government measures to combat energy poverty, and 1097 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — recommends to the Government the financial and technical strengthening of the more sustainable buildings programme and the allocation of energy credits to the most vulnerable families as a form of combating energy poverty. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP, CH and IL were adopted.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions Nos 1089 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends that the Government publish legislation on pollution prevention and soil remedy — PRoSolos, and 1175 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government publish legislation on pollution prevention and soil remediation — PRoSolos — and strengthen inspection and monitoring actions. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] Mrs Lara Martinho asked for the floor to make a point of vote. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u241	Mr. President, with regard to Bill No. 726 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Measures to support public higher education students, we request the correction of our sense of vote against to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u242	Let us then repeat the general vote of Bill No. 726 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Support measures for public higher education students. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions of the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u243	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u244	Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u245	Mr President, I am sorry, because of the advance of the hour, but it is also to correct a point of vote on arrive. In relation to Resolution Projects Nos. 998 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Remunicipalization of the services provided by Alto-Minho Waters in Arcos de Valdevez, Caminha, Paredes de Cura, Ponte de Lima, Valença, Viana do Castelo and Vila Nova de Cerveira, and 1103 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the reversal of the process of setting up the Alto-Minho Waters company and the return of water control to the municipalities of the region, the Arrival intends to change its sense of vote against for abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-15.u246	It is noted, but does not alter the final outcome of the vote. It remains for me to announce the agenda for the next plenary session, which will be held on Wednesday, 21, at 3 p.m. and four points on the agenda. First of all, we will be discussing Law No 82 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) : — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the legal system of individual and household education. Secondly, we will have political statements. Thirdly, we will appreciate Petition No 38 / XIV / 1. a (Afonso Maria Ribeiro Rosa Moreira Pires and others): — Request against works to close the Baixa de Lisboa. Finally, we will appreciate Petition No 638 / XIII / 4. a ( SITAVA-Sunion of Aviation Workers and Airports ) — They request that the professions of Scale Assistance Operators and Scale Assistance Traffic Techniques be qualified as rapid wear, together with Resolution Projects Nos 867 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By regulation of scale care operators and assistance traffic technicians on scale and 1076 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Definition and regulation of a specific employment and retirement scheme for Scale Assistance Operators and Scale Assistance Traffic Techniques. With this information, we finish our session this afternoon. I wish the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the continuation of a good afternoon, good health and good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 5 minutes.]]
