ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Standing Committee of the Assembly of the Republic, the meeting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I hope you have had a good rest, those who could and those who have chosen the fifteens and vacation sites well. I would also like to congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Officials, the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. As you know, it was decided yesterday that the agenda for this meeting will have three points. The first point will be devoted to the reading of the messages of the President of the Republic on the return, without enactment, of two decrees; in the second point, political declarations will be made; and in the third point, we shall proceed to the vote. Before starting the first point of our agenda, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has several information to convey. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. I am now announcing a number of legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau and have been admitted. First of all, I refer to Bill Nos 106 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAA ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 107 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 108 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 109 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 110 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 111 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. the Commission. Resolution Nos 26 / XIV / 2 were also included in the Bureau. a ( GOV ), 27 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) and 28 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which fall to 2. the Commission. Bills Nos 809 / XIV / 2 were also entered into the Bureau. a ( Citizens ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 916 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 917 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 918 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 919 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 920 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 921 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 922 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 923 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 8. a, 924 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 5. the Commission, 925 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 7. a and 13. a Commissions, and 926 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission. Parliamentary assessment No 52 / XIV / 2 has also been included in the Bureau. a ( PCP ). Finally, the draft Resolution Nos 1425 / XIV / 2 were added to the Bureau. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1429 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1430 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1431 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1432 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1433 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 12. the Commission, 1434 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 1435 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 4. the Commission, 1436 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR), 1437 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR), 1438 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1439 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 1440 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 9. the Commission. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. I take advantage of it to wish all members of the Bureau the greatest happiness for the new legislative session to be developed as from next week. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us then enter the agenda of this meeting, the first item of which is on the reading of the messages of the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 167 / XIV — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 713 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on combating fraud and counterfeiting of means of payment other than cash, amending the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, Law No 109 / 2009 of 15 September 2009 approving the Cybercrime Law, and other legislative acts and the Assembly Decree No 176 / XIV — Amendment to the rules for the framework of the Local Economy Support Programme (PAEL). I begin by reading the message of the President of the Republic concerning the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 176 / XIV: « I address your Excellency in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 176 / XIV. the diploma is in fact due to the possible failure to apply sanctions to a precise and limited number of local authorities relating to the EAP. The same diploma was issued after the elections to local authorities were convened and the deadline for application began. It appears to meridian good sense not to provoke electoral interference and even reputational damage to authorities and authorities, thus safeguarding the separation between the legislation on local management and the current electoral period. in these terms, I return to the Assembly of the Republic, without promulgation, the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 176 / XIV, containing amendments to the rules of the framework of the PAEL, so that it may decide on it after the elections of 26 September, i.e. within one month and two days. Do not keep on seeking. ” I now read the message of the President of the Republic concerning the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 167 / XIV: « Together I shall return your Excellency in accordance with Article 279. the paragraph 1 of the Constitution, the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 167 / XIV— Law on combating fraud and counterfeiting of means of payment other than cash, amending the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, Law No 109 / 2009 of 15 September approving the Cybercrime Act, and other legislative acts, since the Constitutional Court, by way of a judgment whose photocopy is annexed, was pronounced, in the case of preventive supervision, in the following terms: ‘Pronunciation by the unconstitutionality of the standards set out in Article 5. the, in the part where Article 17 is amended. the Law No 109 / 2009, of 15 September, for violation of the standards contained in Articles 26. o, paragraph 1, 34. o, paragraph 1, 35. o, paragraphs 1 and 4, 32. o, paragraph 4, and 18. , paragraph 2, of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. This is the way. ’ ” This was the reading of the messages of the President of the Republic. As you know, this will require next or next Leader Conferences to see how the parliamentary groups intend to pronounce themselves on these vetoes, on these refunds without promulgation. We can move on to the second point of our agenda, which is made up of political statements. The first political declaration is for the CFP Parliamentary Group, through Mr Bruno Dias, which is in very good shape after the summer. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : of the situation of the country and of the life of the Portuguese, there is a requirement that is heard every day: it is urgent and essential to give concrete answers to the problems that are being felt by people. The PS Government must end its policy of favouring the deficit and disregarding the population. Even when pushed, the government does not do what it deserves. But you've got to do what's up to you! Life has been responsible for demonstrating how important this force has been and is important in the struggle of workers and populations and in the action and proposal of the CFP. It has been this intervention and action, along with the struggle of workers and populations, the main factor that has allowed, in these difficult times for Portuguese people, to contain and combat a greater degradation of living conditions. It was through the action and intervention of the CFP that it was possible to ensure the payment of wages to workers in layoff at 100 % from the beginning of the year; to guarantee 200 thousand persons covered by the support to self-employed and other persons without social protection, but also to more than 50,000 unemployed, who saw their unemployment benefit extended. It was through the action and intervention of the CFP that about 20 000 children were covered by the free of charge of day care and that this year 1 million and 900 thousand pensioners were able to have pensions increases. We have presented solutions that, to be adopted, would respond to the size of the national problems and the inequalities and injustices that persist. It has been the case of the numerous proposals to improve labour rights, to prolong banking moratoriums and to defend tenants and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs from the consequences of foreseeable non-compliance, the proposal to set a maximum regime of energy and fuel prices and many others. The PS government had every opportunity to start an alternative policy. He didn't, because he made other commitments. in the National Health Service (SNS), I could tell you here about many specific cases that penalize thousands and thousands of people. He could speak of the Setúbal Hospital, or of the Évora Hospital, or of the services of the Garcia de Orta Hospital, or of so many others. I could talk about the Feijó Health Center, but I only give the concrete example of the Quinta do Conde Health Center. The responsibility for its construction lies with the Government. Despite this, the City Council of Sesimbra has made the land available, has taken over the preparation of the construction project, has launched the candidature to the Community funds, proposing to take on— beyond what is competing with it! — part of the value of the work. For construction to begin, it is only lacking that the Government and the Ministry of Finance publish the extension door. For months and months, the matter has died in the government drawers, at the risk of the deadlines for the application to expire and return everything to the zero stake. A shameful situation that requires immediate response! Portugal needs another policy, an alternative policy capable of solving accumulated problems and starting a path of economic and social development. It needs to give another urgency to the mobilization and use of all the possibilities and instruments available to the State budget for 2021 and that the PS Government is slow to implement. The necessary recovery of wages, reforms, social support, universalization and the increase in the value of family allowance, the increase in value and the extension of the criteria for access to unemployment benefit requires a decisive option to combat poverty that goes beyond propaganda. The right to housing will not be resolved without increasing the public offer of large-scale housing, with the central State taking on its responsibilities, nor with the law of the PSD/CDS government's incomes, which the current government refuses to revise. With regard to this issue of lease, the usual media operation has already come to announce the possible delay in the application of the law of layoffs, pushing the problem forward, but leaving the threat to the future of thousands and thousands of families. Well, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the courage to face the problem. Here we will be for the debate in plenary that the CFP has scheduled for the next week, with our legislative proposal to end this inflamm that is still in force today, which is the law of the PSD / CDS evictions. However, we cannot fail to note the unacceptable situation that is being denounced by authorities who are confronted with a government that gives the saying for which it is not said. After so much investment propaganda in housing and 100% funding, the Government now submits the invoice to the authorities and says that, after all, the central authority only finances 60 % and that the investment advances the Authority will have to pay 40 %. It's a scandalous situation that can't go unpunished! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What has been achieved by the intervention of the CFP and the struggle of workers, even though limited after years of intense struggle, is of undeniable importance. Despite the more insistent that they have been and that they are the attempts of the government to impose their propaganda, we do not forget the positive and important measures that it did not only defend as it opposed its adoption to the limit of what it achieved. We well remember the social pass in transport, the proposals and interventions presented by the CFP in this House for 22 years, the attacks and disregards that the honourable Members had deserved. Members of the PS, PSD and CDS throughout this time, but we have never doubted the fairness of our proposal, that it was a just, necessary cause and that it was finally realized, came into force and improved the concrete life of thousands and thousands of people. There is in this whole process a lesson, a teaching that prevails: that nothing is offered and that every advance is won, that it is worth fighting and that the struggle is decisive and makes reality what many think is impossible. For this fight, for action and proposal in building this future for a better life, Portuguese can count on the CFP. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u5	For a political statement, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Recently, we read in the newspapers the following headline: "The number of patients on the surgical waiting list is the lowest of the last two and a half years. Do not keep on seeking. ” Being this factual fact does not reveal the whole truth. The explanation offered by the Health Administration is that, despite all the challenges posed by the pandemic, there has been an effort to recover the planned activity. But what is not said is that, because of the decisions made by the pandemic, shaped by the ideological model of the government of health care provision, there are significant breaks in access to screenings, primary health care and reference for specialist consultations. We can therefore have laudatory headlines in electoral terms, but the truth is that the patients are not OVID or even coming to hospitals, and that is also why the list for registered surgery is low. They're good statistics, but they're not good news. Breaking the oncological tracks is particularly serious and illustrative. For example, the mammograms that have not been performed are estimated at 100 000. Because of this, recent studies point to a growth of more than 15% of the cancer diagnosis in the coming years with a lower survival rate given the advanced stage in which patients will reach hospitals. In primary health care there is also a serious problem: health professionals have been captured for months by the COVID trait, by the ADR (areas dedicated to respiratory patients) and by the vaccination centers and telephone consultations, in many cases only to renew the medication of chronic patients, are not a comprehensive nor sustainable solution. It is therefore urgent to normalize the functioning of primary health care and to strengthen its role in promoting health and preventing disease. Therefore, there is a real delay in access, although not yet fully expressed in waiting lists, health professionals are exhausted and there is a SNS that, before the pandemic, has suffered from numerous and well identified frailties. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: In view of this, how should we put ourselves? Perhaps here lies the greatest difference between the right and the left, or at least between the CDS and the left with regard to health. For the CDS, the question we have to answer now and for the future is: how can we guarantee access to health care in time and time for everyone? The question on the left, well present in what we have heard about the negotiations for the next State budget, is: how to strengthen the SNS? The tonic of the question « serve people or serve the SNS? Everything changes: the hierarchy of priorities, the design of the system, the choices and concrete policies. To ensure access to health care for all, in time and time, we need a SNS as a fundamental means, but not as an end in itself. A means that, being paid by taxpayers, must be financed efficiently according to the health gains obtained and not according to the number of acts produced and a means that has to fix health professionals, because they pay and are responsible and not because they are tied to staying. In order to ensure access to health care for all, in time and time, we need, yes, the SNS, but we will also need the complementarity of the private and social sectors, the pharmaceutical industry, the laboratories, the pharmacies. The pandemic has already taught us this, taught us to work « shoulder to shoulder», to use the words of the Minister of Health, precisely when reality sang higher than the Socialist International. With the aging of our country, on the one hand, and with promising innovation, but expensive, on the other hand, it will quickly become clear that the SNS is not enough, as long as we continue to increase its budget. Also, therefore, the current breakdown situation of ADSE is all that is not desired. Public Administration officials — always those who have no alternative — have been informed of the change of tables on the day of their entry into force and are now at risk of losing access to their doctors, their clinical history and the health care they had so far. The SNS will be overloaded with increased waiting lists and all, everyone, we will lose! Ladies and gentlemen. Members: A Ministry of Myopean Health, which does not see beyond its prejudices, nor in addition to the feasibility of each State budget, every year, does not realize the size of the problems facing it or the viable solutions that others, even if opposed, present. in this legislative session, the CDS will insist on its health proposals so that all citizens, regardless of their postal code, or portfolio, or their work link, can have a time and time health response.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u7	For a political statement, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on this day of political declarations, I cannot but begin by greeting the Association Believe that this week, it brought the debate in civil society not only of the greatest humanity as of the greatest social justice. I am speaking precisely of the demand for the extension of the five current days of parental mourning for at least 20 days, which seems to us to be of greater justice and dignity. Taking in the words of psychologist Mauro Paulino, we know well that the mourning of a life does not fit in five days and we also know that enlargement may not be the answer, of course, to what is necessary to overcome in this circumstance. In fact, there has to be a minimally dignified response by the Assembly of the Republic to this problem that unfortunately so many families face in our country. That is why, before we come to the topic of our political declaration today, I cannot but call all the political forces, from left to right, so that they not only accompany the Association Believe as well as the PAN, which has already introduced a legislative initiative so that, here, in the House of Democracy, we can bring the minimum of justice and dignity to these families. Having said that, and bringing the debate now on the subject of our political declaration, I would like to say that today we are facing not only climate challenges as less known and less spoken challenges in our country. For example, I am talking about the demographic decline, which has become very clear with the dissemination of data from Census 2021. Thus, in 10 years, Portugal lost 2 % of the population. We speak of 214 000 people, continuing to pursue their desertification and 50% of the population to concentrate on the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. We have often heard about regional and social asymmetries that persist in our country, a reality that we all know and that supposedly mobilizes all political forces in manifests of good intentions that end up not bringing any change. in the background, programs and strategies with pomous names for the appreciation of the interior now assume a logic that everything needs to change so that everything will remain the same, or bring a manifestly reducing vision of the interior and the rural world. A paradigmatic example of this are the two agreements that the central bloc has made and which gave rise to the so-called decentralization package and the new model for the designation of the governing bodies of the CCDRs ( Coordination and Regional Development Committees ). in the case of decentralization, we were faced with a necessary reform, which was, in theory, a positive reform, but which, in practice, proved to be disastrous and not only did not solve the problems of municipalities as it brought them added difficulties. This reform failed because it was not accompanied by the necessary strengthening of the organizational and technical capacities of the municipalities and a strengthening of human and financial resources, which were absolutely essential for the exercise of these powers. Moreover, 20 % of the municipalities refused to exercise any competence, including four district capitals. In fact, we cannot shake these powers under the carpet from the central government to the local authorities, then waiting for responsibility to be focused on the authorities. This reform has also been an alibi for the financing of municipalities, as we saw, for example, in the Municipal Social Fund, that in the State budget this year had lost EUR 35 million and remained in values identical to those of 10 years ago, despite the significant increase in the competences of municipalities since then. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the road cannot and should never be this way! It is necessary to look at the concrete problems of the country outside the Land of Paço and also outside the walls of this Assembly of the Republic to make reforms that are consensualized with the municipalities and their populations, especially after a health and socio-economic crisis as deep as that which the country has gone through and which has shown us that the absolutely essential public services, such as the National Health Service, cannot stay behind and lack an effective investment, and that housing, one of the greatest challenges we have today in our cities, has to have public responses that do not go along with simply passing these transfers to the autrkeys and not having on the part of the State, which has a vast heritage, an adequate social response. In fact, while we are talking today, many families have lost their income and we have had an increase in homeless people on the streets. The reduction in wages and the route we have to take in our country cannot continue to be that of not following the European average and that of not being able to guarantee the minimum of dignity and the minimum of reconciliation between what people can do and what makes them happy and also have adequate family income. Nor can it be seen that the demographic decline will be resolved only with incentives for individual transport, with support for the family, or with the perpetuation of scandalous inequalities, as we saw in the State Budget for 2020, in which EUR 34 million was allocated for the Lisbon metro to renew its fleet, but then, on the other hand, only EUR 15 million was allocated for the interior territories to improve their supply of public transport. The railroad has to get out of the paper. They have to get out of the paper the solutions to be bet on the inside, that they don't go through the gold visas, so that people can be fixed. We also need a climate change adaptation plan, because, ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us speak in fact in the flag of the climate problem and do not ensure that in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) and in the next State Budget or in the responses of local authorities we will have programs for adaptation of the territory to climate change is to bury the head in the sand and note that we will not have flooded areas in our country, which we will not be hit by the extreme drought, as has already happened in Mira, as will happen in the southwest Alentejano, in Odemira and so many other locations in our country. That is why essential public policies must always have territorial cohesion. There are also significant delays in publishing orders, in social support that are absolutely fundamental, including from the social point of view and also from the protection of animals, which cannot remain continuously behind. The State budget for 2022, which will soon be discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, will in fact have to be the cornerstone that will help the country to emerge from the socio-economic crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u9	I have the floor for a political statement by the Parliamentary Group of the Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For these days the process of locating the new airport in Lisbon has again been reported. First, it was the Administrative and Prosecutor's Court of Almada that, on the subject of a precautionary measure brought by a group of citizens, recently came to completely overthrow the option Montijo. in the sentence it is expressly stated that — and I quote — « the choice of the place at the Montijo Air Base, clearly and manifestly disregards the environmental impacts in sensitive areas legally protected, of national, Community and international importance ». But, moreover, the sentence also states that the location Montijo, with its implications in sensitive and legally protected areas, contradicts the environmental legislation invoked, because the environmental impact study presented could only substantiate, in that location, an unfavourable environmental impact declaration (IAA). It is not The Greens who claim it, it is a court in this country: the environmental impact study presented could only substantiate, in that place, an unfavorable ADI. This sentence, which undermines the precautionary provision only because there is no special urgency or damage to the population, since the process is halted, comes first and foremost to give reason to all those who, like the Greens, have opposed this government theism. But it also comes to bring bad news for Vinci's claims and for all those who insist on maintaining the Montijo in the equation, until the same court is analyzing the main action, the outcome of which, in view of what is said in this sentence, is now more than predictable. For this reason, the Greens alert the government to the need to remove the Montijo from the strategic environmental assessment, because one thing is right and on which we have no doubt: the sooner the Montijo gets out of the equation, the sooner we get a new airport. But the subject was also reported again because a significant set of environmental associations came to reinforce what the Greens had already denounced: the government does not intend to promote a serious and true strategic environmental assessment, because, if so, it would not limit its scope and would not start for this assessment with pre-defined ideas. But the Greens go even further and say: if the government really wanted to make a serious and true strategic environmental assessment for the location of the new airport, as you know, it would never include Montijo in the range of options and much less in a double dose. In fact, this obsession of the government by the Montijo, before all the known evidence, is understandable only if it is an imposition of Vinci. However, to what we know, Vinci does not send in our country and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic is very clear by subordinateing economic power to political power and not its opposite. But the airport has also been reported again because the PSD recently reminded us of the monumental cambalhota it gave in this matter. We all remember that the PSD, about the Montijo location process, began by showing inability to change laws for concrete processes, even challenging the government to negotiate with their respective municipalities. And now the same PSD gives the saying for not saying and comes to manifest all the willingness to change the same law and for the same process. Moreover, contrary to what the PS and PSD say, the law in force does not impose that local interest overlaps with the national interest. No, what it is intended to prevent national interest from devaluation or literally ignoring local interest. Above all, it is a decision that will affect the territory not one or two years, but an eternity. Moreover, to change a law just because some affected municipalities did not seem to please the government is more a boy-spertism attitude than a government attitude, it is to call into question the loyalty of the process, which naturally removes legitimacy from the decision and weakens the democratic rules that were established at the beginning of the process and which will only be changed in the middle of the process because the result was not what the government wanted. Then, PS and PSD are all about such « higher national interest », but Montijo's option does not stem from any national interest is exclusively motivated by the interests of a multinational in this case of Vinci. The Montijo option is not a country project, it is not a national project, it is a multinational project. It was not proposed by experts, nor by technicians, nor was it studied by any public body, it was a choice of Vinci, which PS and PSD are viewing as an order. In other words, PS and PSD are preparing to change the law and, in doing so, they do not intend to impose the public interest, the national interest, what they want to impose is the interests of Vinci. And they even do that it implies withdrawing competences to municipalities in such important matters as giving opinions on decisions that seriously question the environmental values and the health of the populations of the municipalities concerned. But, attention, the amendment is only to do after the elections, because now it is time, as is appropriate, to promise respect for the autonomy of the local power. In other words, after passing the autarchic elections, PS and PSD will withdraw competences from local authorities only because the authorities gave an opinion that does not like the government or, better, PS and PSD intend to silence the municipalities that did not align in the conversation of Vinci. Moreover, as we know, in the case of the Montijo airport, only the CDU authorities have placed the public interest in the interests of the large economic groups—in this case, multinational Vinci—because, contrary to what the PS and PSD say, the confrontation, in the matter of the location of the Montijo airport, is not between local and national interest. No, what is at stake is the interest of a multinational, on the one hand, and the local and national interest on the other. It is in these terms, and only in these terms, that the question of the airport at Montijo must be put; everything else is reliable conversation. And now that we are going to vote, it would be important for all these elements to be taken into account next September 26. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u11	by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, now has the floor, for a political statement, Mr John Paul Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is the second country in the world with a higher percentage of Vaccinates against COVID-19 — 77 % of the population with full vaccination and 86 % with at least one dose administered. The latest report by the Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ) accounts for about 8 million and 800 thousand residents with at least one dose of vaccine administered and close to 8 million with full vaccination. in age groups from 65 years the vaccination already covers almost all of the population. It is also noteworthy for the percentage of vaccination of young people between 12 and 17 years of age: 81 % already have a dose and 25% have full vaccination. A success of all. From the Portuguese, health professionals, the response capacity of the SNS, the task force and its leadership,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... of the action of the Government and of the coordinated action of the European Union. But the results of the vaccination process do not make us forget what we have heard, months in a row, on the part of those who have little or nothing done by the National Health Service. They said that everything was going to be missing in the SNS, they said that doctors were going to need to choose who lived and who died, they said vaccination was going to be a disaster. Those who said these lies should be here today to apologize to the Portuguese. Fortunately, the most pessimistic scenarios have not been confirmed. The effort of all — I repeat, of all! — has led the vaccination process to the best performance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For four years, the right spoke in the chaos of the National Health Service, but at the most critical and challenging moment for public health was and has been the response capacity of the National Health Service to make the difference. And a large part of this SNS response capacity is due to the strengthening of the investment that the government started at the end of 2015. Since then and so far, in net terms, we have more than 27 000 professionals in the National Health Service, which corresponds to a 23% increase in human resources. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the end of the previous semester, the debate on economic recovery identified three fundamental axes: pandemic control and the success of the vaccination process, adaptation of measures to support families and businesses most affected by the crisis and the growth of exports and investment. To talk about the measures to support families and businesses is to talk about the response to the crisis. And at this point, it is inevitable that we compare the Government's response to this crisis with the right response to the previous crisis. The right chose austerity, which was a tremendously wrong answer. It would be tragic to respond again austerely to the current crisis. The response to this crisis did not cut income, did not cut investment and did not increase taxes. The Government has not saved in support of families and businesses. in the previous crisis we reached 18 % of the unemployed; in this crisis we had a maximum of 8 % of the unemployed and at present we are about 6 % of the unemployed, a value close to the pre-crisis period. If the budgetary surplus that preceded the unexpected and brutal pandemic crisis was decisive for the immediate mobilization of the necessary measures to respond to the crisis, the State budget for 2021 has been a budget to combat the crisis. The extraordinary increase in lower pensions, the increase in the minimum existence for the payment of IRS (tax on income of natural persons), the increase in the amount of unemployment benefit, the extension of the unemployment allowance period to 100 % and the new social benefit are measures that have only arrived — and arrive — to families and businesses because the State budget has been approved, a budget that prioritizes health and economic support, a budget that prioritizes income and investment support measures. But we remember that the PSD voted against the Budget. He voted against, accusing the government of giving everything to everyone. The PSD accused the government of taking public spending far too far, but without ever saying that it would cut. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Without ever saying whether it would be cut in employment protection measures, whether it would be cut in income protection measures, whether in the National Health Service, or whether it would be cut in investment. It was a vote against mere tactics. And, a few months ago, again by mere tactics, we heard the PSD demand more public spending, contradicting and disparaging the main reason for its vote against the Budget. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the measures that the Government has taken to deal with the pandemic have reached EUR 4700 million by the end of July. on the side of expenditure, the COVID measures so far amounted to EUR 4200 million, which far exceeds the value implemented throughout 2020. on the revenue side, EUR 203 million for the exemption of the single social rate ( TSU ) and EUR 179 million for the deferral of tax payments. Business support and job maintenance measures, in particular Layoff, support for progressive recovery, extraordinary incentive to normalisation of activity and the APOIAR Programme have enabled companies to bear labour costs and operational costs. These measures have enabled us to preserve the productive capacity of our economic fabric. And the preservation of the productive capacity of companies has made it possible to react strongly and rapidly to the economy. Social security contributions increased by 7 %, an increase justified by positive developments in the labour market. The most recent official statistics say that the employed population has increased again, reaching a maximum of two decades. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in July, exports of goods continued to exceed the values that had been achieved before the pandemic. For the same month of 2019, exports of goods increased by 4 %. As a result, the trade balance deficit improved by EUR 371 million, compared to two years. Investment increased by 3, 9 % in the first quarter to 10, 5 % in the second quarter. The increase in investment is crucial for economic recovery to occur in line with official forecasts. Therefore, the momentum of the European funds, more specifically the Recovery and Resilience Plan, is crucial. One third of the funds provided for in the RPP are contracted, more than EUR 5000 million contracted, either with final beneficiaries or with intermediate beneficiaries, which is a positive sign of collective mobilization for the implementation of this fundamental plan throughout the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u13	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u14	Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I will say that economic growth in the second quarter confirmed the recovery trajectory for 2021. The Portuguese economy grew 4, 9% in the second quarter of this year, compared to the previous quarter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u15	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u16	This was the second largest increase among the countries of the European Union. Portugal continues to face a huge challenge: to continue fighting the crisis, to control the pandemic and to complete the vaccination process, to combat social and labor inequalities, to support companies in the most affected sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u17	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u18	No one can stay behind! This is the determination and this is the commitment of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u19	For a political declaration, Mr José Cancela Moura of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The elections are authentic, but it is the government that is in the campaign and no longer hides what is coming. To win is worth everything, it's worth everything! The Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, in part-time Prime Minister mode, heads the cart of rulers who have travelled the country, in a pilgrimage to promise everyone, as if the public resources, which are all of us, were deposited in the Socialist Party's bank account.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u22	A campaign that deliberately mixes everything and where you no longer know where the state ends and where the PS starts, nor where the party ends and where the government starts. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member's laughs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] I would say that this is not the case for so much laughter, Mrs. Deputies. That's the case, yes, for the country's great grief. A campaign in which the Prime Minister, such as Uncle Patinhas and always next to the candidates or chamber presidents of the PS, promises to distribute the Recovery and Resilience Plan as if there were not tomorrow. In Loures, he promised the surface metro with EUR 250 million of the PRR ; in Covilhã, he promised a strengthening of the financing for housing under the same EUR 2, 750 million of the PRR that he had already promised to more than two or three municipalities ; in Resende and Baião, he promised the link between both municipalities, with EUR 723 million for the road links registered in the PRR ; in Mirandela and Vila Real, he promised five new connections between Portugal and Spain, from Bragança to Alcoutim, with the same words as the PRR ; and in Chaves, he promised EUR 110 million for cross-border links, most of which again from the PRR. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: An authentic Euromillions, who is running around day by day yes, day by day, every time the Prime Minister makes a PS concert, where the prized balls always go out to them, in a fully addicted party game. [[PSD applause.]] This misappropriation of the PRR, indicating that only the authorities that are coming to be won by the PS will have free and facilitated access to these millions, is an absolutely unacceptable promiscuity in a rule of law. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u23	This governmentalization of the municipalities, feeding the narrative that distinguishes between the good autarchs, which are those of the PS, and the others, is obscene discrimination, almost third-worldist. The challenge of economic growth has lost for the Socialist Party's power project and the country is on the way to a dangerous process of mexicanization, with which we do not want, nor will we, at all, agree. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] The PS has already used the state apparatus to silence dissonant or critical voices, such as Vítor Caldeira or Joana Marques Vidal, to interfere in the nominations of the CRESAP (Recruitment and Selection Commission for Public Administration ), with Ana Paula Vitorino and Tiago Preguiça,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u24	And it's not over yet! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u25	... to provide false statements in the designation of the European Prosecutor, to condition up to the media, with the allocation of financial aid, as a paid advertising, or to legislate in an attempt to amnesty some of its authorities to accounts with sanction procedures that may lead to the loss of mandate. The PS is capable of everything, even everything! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] The PS now intends to transform the PRR — which should promote, had this obligation, as a national design — into a "Electoral Convention Plan of the Socialist Party" and a "Government Reverence Plan". in fact, not satisfied with engaging the greatest share of the PRR in the increasingly fattening state machine, than the best example is the biggest ever hiring of public servants, the Government and the Socialist Party, on election evenings, use the funds and money of the "basca" to literally buy votes. [[PS protests.]] If this is not to devert, scandalously, the rules of the democratic game, promoting an environment of electoral blackmail based on promises of future favours and blessings, then we do not know what that is. It is the old socialist cartilage, now operating in version 2.0 and in the form of « bazouca». And the dislate is so big and so ridiculous that this auction of promises, on our account, already exceeds by more than EUR 5000 million, the total value of EUR 16 billion of the « bazouca » itself. The PS has been government in 11 of the last 15 years and has learned nothing from the disgovernment of Socrates. The Prime Minister, who was his number two, and was his best student, neither. Just facilitation and irresponsibility! For example, in the sale of the New Bank,... [[PS protests.]] ...reversion of the privatisation of TAP, or nepotism in the appointment of public office. [[PS protests.]] There are decorations, which the country needs, and very much! The autarchs are serious people, who deserve respect, especially those who govern. They are people with great sense and a spirit of mission, who passionately embrace the causes they defend. They are people committed to their land and completely uncompromised by political ties. They are people who honor his word, what few people do, and do not exchange convictions for convenience. They are people with great sense of responsibility, who govern with humility. They are people who cannot, should not, do not deserve to be victimized in such a way as to exercise power and to promise esmo, without criteria, without rules, without fairness. [[PSD applause.]] Faced with this state of the site, which should shame us all, and in the name of a free and independent local power, we want to launch a challenge, which is also a challenge, to the National Elections Commission, so that, between the Azafama of the notifications for the removal of publications on social networks and the recommendations on abstention of behaviour,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u26	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u27	... find 10 minutes to ensure equal treatment and opportunities for these government propaganda actions, even above misleading, which are an unqualified interference in the electoral campaign. It had more practical utility and the autoarchs would appreciate, grateful and recognized.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u28	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u29	Finally, if « anyone messing with the Socialist Party carried», now whoever messes with the PS takes nothing, or, said in a simpler way, as in a song of the Zeca Afonso, so that everyone can understand, «they eat everything and leave nothing»! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u30	For a political statement, Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have a new historical maximum of the price of electricity on the wholesale market: 141 € / MWh. This record will be again, beaten tomorrow, the day the contracted production will reach 152 € / MWh, the highest prices ever in the Iberian Market. This high has already had consequences for regulated market consumers, who are already paying an intermediate increase decided during this summer. In Spain wholesale prices are reflected more directly and immediately in consumer prices and the situation is already very serious. Being different from the regime in Portugal, the government thinks it's buying time, waiting for the storm to pass. But the forecasts indicate otherwise: high prices come to stay and will eventually translate even into consumer prices. The high price is generated by rising the price of gas and, above all, CO2 emissions. This rise reflects the cost of energy produced in thermal power plants, which are those that most of the time define the price of electricity in the wholesale market. In other words, a water wire dam, with non-relevant production costs, will charge the same price as is paid by the last energy unit acquired at the most expensive power stations, gas plants. That is why the policy of 'waiting for passage' does not seem to be good policy. If discharge is to be maintained, even because it is driven, among other factors, by measures necessary to combat climate change, it is now necessary to produce compensation measures. The Government must act urgently to avoid an escalation of the energy costs of people in full crisis. That's not what the government is doing. The government foresees 'unsignificant' increases in electricity and gives three reasons to believe that there will be no larger increases. None of these reasons are consistent. First of all, the government says solar power stations are going to lower the bill. It is true that solar energy rates resulting from the 2019 and 2020 auctions are much lower than the current market price and will therefore have to push down the invoices. The problem is that there is not only one of the power stations resulting from those auctions that are connected to the network. And according to the REN itself it has sent to the Members here, in Parliament, these links will still take two or three years to have some expression. Well, we don't have that time. Secondly, the government says the wind will lower the bill. He's not going! After 15 years of consumer-subsidised prices, the windfall, always promised, was postponed by a decision of the right-wing government in 2013. The current government, after saying that it disagreed with this measure, after the Socialist Party recommends, in the Committee of Inquiry on Excessive Income, its revocation, now maintains this measure and even praises the jackpot offered to wind companies. Under the current situation, high market prices will keep wind prices at the highest level of 90 € / MWh, very close to what has historically been paid to them — there is no drop. Thirdly, the Government says it wants to mitigate the rise in turnover, increasing the proportion of the environmental fund's funds, which will be channelled to contain electricity prices. Now, the Environment Fund is public money which must finance energy transition and climate change policies. Will we reduce these investments or will we pay them with money from taxpayers registered in the State budget? Of course, these investments will not be! And by withdrawing more money from the Environmental Fund, the government is going to look for the climate that should look for the income and profits of large electric companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u33	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a time bomb that will even explode in consumer bills in Portugal. The electric market, designed for CO2 emitters, has always been wrong, but now it is catastrophic. The electric oligopoly is winning millions, protected by the government and Brussels, even though we all know that we need new ways to organize the electricity system and pay for energy production. For now, we need measures to contain the increases we see coming. The Block has put forward two proposals, which the Government has so far turned down militantly. The first is to eliminate, at least in part, the 'fall profits from the sky' taken from the dams. It is enough for António Costa to follow the example of the Spanish Socialist Government, which has already advanced a bill to cut excessive profits obtained on the market by non-CO2 stations. Pedro Sanchez intends to eliminate the gains of dams equivalent to the cost of emissions because they are excessive, since dams do not have emission costs. After that cut, dams will obviously continue to be more competitive than gas plants, so the measure does not represent any negative stimulus in environmental terms. The second measure that is available and that the Bloc has advanced was recommended more than two years ago by the Committee of Inquiry on Excessive Income, with the Socialist Party's favorable vote, and then rejected by the Government : the review of the remuneration of wind power stations. In 2013 the Coelho Pass Government changed the rules of the game for companies and offered them an additional period of high remuneration from 2021 in exchange for a modest annual contribution paid by companies between 2013 and 2020. The harmful decree adopted by the right-wing government in 2013 must be revoked, returning to the companies the contribution they paid, with their interest. The 2005 Act should be applied, which was exactly the one that covered the initial investments and shaped the expectations of these investors. Wind power stations must move to a new fixed rate, as stated in the 2005 Act, equivalent to that resulting from a next auction for new wind power plants. I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that, with that old law, less than half of what we are delivering today to the windmills would be what we would pay for. According to the calculations approved by the ICC (Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry), with this reversal consumers would save between EUR 1000 million and EUR 1500 million in the coming years. These are preventive measures, in view of the storm we all know that is coming. The energy transition, because it is urgent, must be fair, cannot become an unbearable burden for people and a jackpot for the oligopoly of energy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u34	We have thus reached the end of the second item on the Standing Committee' s agenda, and we will then come to the third point where there are several deliberations which I shall immediately put to the vote. We begin by voting on draft resolution No 1436 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Rome. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1437 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to New York. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now have the vote on several opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I am going to ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read, so that we can proceed accordingly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I shall take account of the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members on the request for the suspension and replacement of Mr Ventura ( CH ) of the electoral circle of Lisbon, by Diogo Velez Mouta Pacheco de Amorim, of the same electoral circle, for the period from 9 September to 8 October 2021, and the same shall meet the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u36	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when we have no requests for a word, we shall vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the request for the resignation and appointment of a Member, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies has delivered an opinion that the waiver of the mandate of Deputy Ana Paula Vitorino ( PS ) meets the legal requirements, being replaced by Isabel Sofia Alves de Andrade, with effect from 9 August 2021, including. Mr President — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Carlos Peixoto ( PSD ) to present a statement, as a witness, within the scope of the cars in reference- Procedure : 23166 / 16.3T8LSB-B - Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa - Justice of the Family and Minors of Lisbon - Judge 6. Mr President — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-09.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Martina Jesus ( PS ) to give written testimony, as a witness, within the scope of the cars in reference- Procedure : 53 / 20.5GGABT - Court of Justice of the District of Portalegre - Judge General of Ponte de Sor - Judge 2. Mr President — We shall proceed to your vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are thus at the end of our meeting of the Standing Committee. It remains for me to announce the agenda of the plenary meeting next Wednesday, 15, at 3 p.m., which has as its first point the assessment, in general, of the Bills Nos 708 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Protection and recovery of the ravine and 800 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recognition and protection of the ravine and its cultural identity. in the second item on the agenda we generally have the discussion of Bill No. 148 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Model of financing hospitals integrated into the National Health Service. The third point will be followed by the assessment, in general, of Bill No 883 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — regulates the brokerage and accommodation in balconies and similar spaces of pets, making the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 276/2001 of 17 October. Finally, the Resolution Project No 1161 / XIV / 2 will be appreciated. a (PV) — National programme for the efficient use of water. I wish everyone a good job and a good weekend. The meeting is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 12 minutes.]]
