ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let's start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as possible, we must proceed to a number of votes, and I therefore ask the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who are going to register so that we can clear up the quorum of deliberation. Meanwhile, Ms. Maria da Luz Rosinha will announce the presentation of a vast array of legislative initiatives that have entered. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. They have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Bill Nos 864 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 865 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 866 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 867 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 14. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 868 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 869 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 870 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 871 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 872 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 874 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which falls to 14. the Commission, 875 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 876 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 877 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 14. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 878 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, and 879 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission. Resolution Nos 1334 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1335 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1336 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1337 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1339 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to proceed to two votes and we are on the verge of having quorum to do so. Therefore, ask the honourable Members. Members to register. We now have 115 registered presences, and with 116 we will be able to vote. So in the next few seconds, we will have this problem solved. [[Pause.]] At present, we already have a quorum of votes, since there are 124 Members. Members registered. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will announce the legislative initiatives on which we will have to pronounce ourselves. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u4	Mr President, the first initiative is draft resolution No 1338 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to New York.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absences of CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The vote is followed by another legislative initiative, which will be announced by the Secretary. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u6	According to the outcome of today's Conference of Leaders, the text of the Draft of Deliberation No 14 / XIV / 2 was amended. a ( PAR), in the part where it relates to the normal functioning of parliamentary committees, which was scheduled to be until 21 July, but which goes on to 22 of the same month. This is the Deliberation Project No. 14 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR ) — Extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absences of CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Members, the next item is a debate on sectoral policy with the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, under Article 224 ( b ) ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure. To open the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Minister for the Environment and Climate Action.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We were the Ministry of the Environment, then the Energy Transition and now the Climate Action. We are the government team that delivered: the Environmental Fund; the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality; the National Program for Territorial Planning Policy (PNPOT); the Action Plan for Circular Economics; the National Energy and Climate Plan (PNEC); the National Strategy for Hydrogen ( EN-H2); the PART(Tax Reduction Support Programme) and the PROTransP(Densification and Strengthening Programme of the Public Transport Offer) ; and the National Strategy for Active Mobility ( ENMA ). We are the government team that : started the withdrawal of subsidies from fossil fuels in the production of energy; invested in the restoration of ecosystems and created the landscape transformation program; delivered STCP (Sociedad de Transportes Collectivees do Porto ) and Carris ( Companhia Carris de Ferro de Lisboa ) to the municipalities; boosted the expansion of the meters, supported the replacement of the fleets of buses and expanded the public network of loading electric vehicles; created the energy communities; beat two records of the world of lowest price with the sun auctions; and invested in the coastline and rivers, as it had never happened, only with natural base solutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the government team which has committed itself to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55 % ( GEE ) by 2030. Portugal has already reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 26 % compared to 2005, even without accounting for the effect of the end-production of electricity from coal, which has already ended this year. In 2020, the share of renewable energy in electricity was around 59 % and in February we reached the maximum of production for the last 40 years. In good rigour, in that month, we almost reached the goal we proposed for 2030. This is the government team that approved the European Climate Law. In Europe too, we have adopted the European strategy for climate change and the new regulation for trans-European energy networks, with the assurance that there will be no more Community money to finance fossil fuel networks. We are the ministry of sustainable development in all its dimensions that, rather than declaring the formality of the climate emergency, faced it in the eyes and gave it planned and concrete answers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It would have been difficult to speed up this integrated vision without the creation by the Government of the Environment Fund. And thus, we supported joints of freguesia, municipalities, CIM (intermunicipal communities) and CCDR (regional coordination and development committees), universities and technological centres, schools, companies and associations, and international cooperation, in the initiatives that meet these objectives. But it must be recognized that mitigation and adaptation to climate change are necessary, but not enough to meet the challenges we face today: waste, sustainable production and consumption, scarce resources and responsible citizenship. For this, there must be an environment beyond the governmental area of the environment. We cannot cover the roof of our supermarket with photovoltaic panels, but then throw out food that is still consumable; we cannot have systems that collect recyclable materials and then companies refuse to accept obligations to reduce, reuse or incorporate recycling into their products. We therefore have fundamental challenges related to pollution and resources for which it is essential to improve our action — and the « our » here is actually everyone's, not just the government. It is therefore necessary to penalise material waste by progressively increasing the TGR (waste management rate) ; yes, it is necessary to prohibit the deposition of bioresidues and recyclables into landfills and it is necessary to establish its collection and recovery dedicated. Anyone who says he wants to change, but everything makes him stay in the same or worse, has no legitimacy to come and ask for different results. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We cannot continue to believe that the objectives can be achieved without any effort from the private sector, public sector, municipalities or citizens. There is no vaccine against climate change. There is no vaccine against erosion of natural resources. It is necessary to realize that it has been decades to design an economic, social and legal structure based on a certain understanding of the place of the environment. Today, we know that the graph of supply and demand does not float in infinity; the circle of the natural system limits it. Therefore, today, a decision-maker who does not understand this relationship is not a decision-maker who has the capacity to attend to the present and the future. To make this transformation requires dew: look at the case of diesel cars, where we were crucified for dare saying that they would be active that they would quickly devalue themselves, and today we have marks to say that they will let them produce them. In politics, it is never easy to be right before time. That is why the work we have been doing is already a solid work, which takes its time, but has produced multiple results. I give examples of numbers: 16 % of vehicles entering the market are electric; 372 beaches have blue flag(42 of them in the interior, which is the second best result in Europe ); 271 000 tonnes of waste objected to being sent to landfill, since February 2020; and 700 new buses with high environmental performance. Being a Minister of Climate Action means having the ultimate responsibility for mitigation, adaptation and carbon sequestration. The task is heavy, because reducing emissions by 85 % by 2050 greatly changes our way of life. To ensure only by natural engineering methods the quality of our water masses and the fight against the advance of the sea is a cyclical and endless task. Transforming our landscape by fighting agricultural or forestry monocultures will take a decade. But fortunately, all of this happens in a time of exceptional financial envelope for the immediate future. Not outside the Environmental Fund, to achieve what we have achieved, we have just over EUR 2000 million in the PO SEUR ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use ), inherited from the right government. For in the next cycle, this value of Community support will be around EUR 13 billion, which needs to be strictly implemented. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And all this at a time when the main industrial investments are, after all, in areas under our protection: the reindustrialisation of the country passes through renewable energies, renewable gases, the decarbonization of industry, the lithium line and the construction and recycling of batteries. We can't leave anyone behind in this transition. But it is cheating to say that reducing emissions by 55 % in a decade is little, wanting more, as some parties want, and then saying that you cannot close the refinery of Leça da Palmeira, nor the coal plant of Sines — I heard in this House saying that Leça refinery had no emissions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is cheating to demand that all water masses have to have excellent quality and then say that water service systems do not have to be financially balanced. It is cheating to want clean energies and cry the slaughter of intensive eucalyptus plantations to build solar parks. It is cheating to claim recycling targets, as the PSD does, and at the same time, the PSD, dream of a landing for Walls, criticizing the authority for building a biogas plant to value bioresidues. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that this government has no alternative. But in the matter of the environment, the alternative is a scare, come from the left or right. And, therefore, every day, we build the future, guided by the defence of natural values and knowledge that the growth of the economy will be made in our areas, because this is where the big investments are. In contrast to the Czechs, or perhaps the anti-intermittent nuclearists, the realization of this government's renewables bet enables us to see, in the face of the current pressure on the wholesale electricity market, that it is not made at the cost of consumers, but intended to reconcile the increase in the penetration of renewable energy sources in the final consumption, while ensuring savings for the electricity system, that is, for consumers. We have managed to achieve the objectives cost-effectively. If the 2019 solar auction plants were on hold, they would have saved around EUR 35 million from the beginning of this year. At constant prices during the 15 years of the tariff, savings would ultimately be EUR 1100 million and not EUR 600 million, as we then thought. If we extended this logic to the second solar auction, particularly to the storage mode, Portuguese electricity consumers would have also saved about EUR 40 million since the beginning of the year. What has been a cost is now a gain and a insurance that protects all consumers of electricity from rising prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u9	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u10	So we will continue with a new auction already in September, now for the water surfaces of the albueiras. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) and the REACH ( Recovery Assistance for Cohesion and the Territories of Europe) are there. For us, they have already begun, with the agreement with the authorities to invest EUR 50 million, to recover 150 km of rivers with natural basic solutions, with the warning of EUR 130 million for the bio-economics, with the contest of ideas for the bridge over the Douro and the Port metro and with the 11 proposals we have already received for the project of the metro line of Casa da Música to Santo Ovideo. The PRR and RECT will continue next week with the EUR 30 million warning to improve the energy efficiency of buildings. Still this month, EUR 40 million was invested for 135 clean buses outside the metropolitan areas. In July, the "efficiency valleys" will combat energy poverty and, also in July, there will be the signature of the constitution of 23 integrated landscape management areas, corresponding to EUR 100 million of investment. In September, there will be a warning for the production of renewable gases and clean fleets for buses in Lisbon and Porto. It'll be a dizzy rhythm. We will be able to comply, because we are prepared, because we have planned, because we are careful to have motivated teams and because the government, as a whole, has given us a role in policy coordination. We are well aware of the scale of our challenge, but from the Picote Frequencies Board in Miranda do Douro to the Presidency of the Council of the European Union we have been and will always be present, never saving our efforts, nor turning our eyes to the fight. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u11	Misleading them!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u12	So let's start the first round of questions. The first parliamentary group to use the word is that of the PSD. Your speaking time will be shared between the two gentlemen. Members who are registered. To question Mr. Minister, Mr. Luís Leite Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u13	Mr President, Minister for Environment and Climate Action, Secretary of State and Mrs. Secretaries of, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by welcoming the presence of the Minister in this Parliament. It's good to see you around. I confess to you that, with the Government scheduling this sectoral debate on a matter as important as the environment, we had some expectations that one of three situations would happen today. The first was that the Minister was finally going to answer the more than 250 questions and demands of this Parliament, which you have not yet been careful to send. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u14	They're wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u15	The Minister has forgotten to join his memories, which is, after all, part of the aura and the way you are leading. But, after all, none of that happened. We therefore thought that the reason was different and that the Minister would explain, or clarify, some of the many mysteries that have marked his mandate. For example, the fact that it took six years to regulate the law of geological resources is a mystery that helps us. How did your government take six years to regulate that law? And the mysterious disappearance of a diploma on contaminated soil? No one can find him! Mr President of the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ) did not find him either.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u16	They lost him!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u17	We were also unaware of this mystery. Or, then, the total inaction and lack of government competence, for example in solving the problem of hazardous waste, which is another matter to which Mr Minister was unable to respond, such as that of the Vale da Rosa and many others. Or, then, environmental chaos in Southwest Alentejano, with the systematic and continuing problems that exist. In addition, the implementation of the SEUR PO. The Minister has announced millions, but he is unable to explain why the implementation rate of the SEUR PO is about 50 %. How are you going to spend more money if you can't afford it? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u18	Or, then, the Via Verde, the tax broker to EDP ( Energies of Portugal ), the intestinal wars in the megaproject of hydrogen...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u19	That's good too!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u20	Finally, there is a set of other matters that it was important to clarify. Finally, we thought it was time for the Minister to announce the State of the Environment Report. It is common for many years ago, on World Environment Day, the Ministry of the Environment to present to the country the Report of the State of the Environment, so that, on the basis of the numbers, in the performances of its sector, today we could have a reasoned discussion, as was required. None of this happened. Therefore, the questions you would like to ask you, Minister, are the following: why did the Minister not have the Environment State Report published or not? What is the underlying reason for this not to be published? Did you not want us to know, during this debate, some of the indicators that appear there? Will this publication take place from here a few days, or a week, after the debate? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u21	You have the floor to answer these questions, Mr Environment Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u22	Mr President, Mr Leite Ramos, I begin by updating it with a number that is not, nor will it ever be, in the Report on the Environment: we have received 963 questions throughout this Parliament and only lacks answers to 12. Repeat : 12. It's actually 12! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u23	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u24	We do not do this to the twelfth, we answer one by one, but we will respond to the twelfth that is very soon to be missing. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] The mine law was ready in January and was approved by the Government in January. We fully understand that at the end of his term of office, Mr President of the Republic, he did not wish to promulgate. He then returned to the government. We incorporated what was to be incorporated and it took time to be promulgated. There is, it is published, so you ask me about a delay that does not exist. As for the law of soils, it is scheduled for the Council of Ministers. The PO SEUR has a beautiful execution in Axis II and Axis III. Where there is indeed a more fragile execution in the 28 % house, which obviously fights and reduces the average execution, is on Axis I. What is Axis I? Oh, my God! It's the axis of decarbonization. This is, in fact, delayed because they are big projects, for which the PSD and the CDS, when they were in the government, not even omitted, prevented them from being there! [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] It is that, in fact, VV Ex.as, and, above all, your fellow Government, do these works in 15 days, but we cannot do them. There was, objectively, a delay at the beginning of the works in the meters of Lisbon and Porto. Among other things, it was necessary to ensure that there was funding and it was necessary to reprogram the SEUR PO. unlike the express and written will by the PSD and the CDS, who said that these projects could never be financed, with enormous damage to the environment, they are now being financed. That is the reason for the delay in execution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u25	But you shouldn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u26	On green hydrogen, I don't know what confusion you're talking about, e.g., much less in the Sines project. The consortia are those that constitute them. Companies join together as they can join together. But certainly, a person as up-to-date as you heard the news this morning: the H2Sines Project is one of the only three projects that the European Union has already approved for its merit. Therefore, it will continue, regardless of the way in which, within it, intentions are arranged or stopped repairing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u27	Here!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u28	Mr Luís Leite Ramos continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u29	Mr President, Minister, I repeat the question I asked you: when will the Report on the Environment be published? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u30	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u31	Mr President, Member, will be published immediately after the date on which it is presented. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u32	Mr Luís Leite Ramos, continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u33	Mr President, the Minister of the Environment who has been in charge longer to complain about a European funding programme which has already been rescheduled twice and to say that the fault for its failure to implement is the previous government... Mr. Minister speaks for himself and is your business card. In fact, the Minister is late, and he always comes up with other justifications as to what he does not do. Even the 250 requests and questions that remained to be answered, in the previous legislative session,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u34	...even those, Mr. Minister lies back. Mr Minister, there is another question I would like to ask you, which has to do with the following: the Minister has taken six years to develop or regulate the mine law. Six years, Minister! When you arrived at the government, the law was passed and there was a six-month period to regulate it. The Minister took six years to do so and comes to say that this is the best law in the world. I just want to ask you two very direct and clear questions, Minister: is it possible or is it not possible, on the basis of your law, to exploit geological resources in protected areas? If so, with what criteria and who decides? That's two very simple questions. And I ask the Minister to respond with the same tone and in the same direct manner as I put them to him. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u35	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the answers to the questions of the honourable Members, the data are absolutely objective : we have answered 97% of the questions asked to us, and of the 963, 12 are missing. I am grateful that he comes to speak in previous legislatures, thinking that, in fact, it is weak for me to be able to talk about the behaviour of the Government of the party of V.A. Mr President, the works of the meters of Lisbon and Porto are works that actually take time, which have competitions, contests that have been challenged. But there is one thing I know: there was even the risk that the execution of the POEUR Axis I would be lower. You know how? If I had revenged the VV proposal. Ex. to prevent the construction of the circular line in Lisbon. If she had been prevented, like VV. Ex.as desired and placed in the Budget, the execution would be lower...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u37	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u38	... and whoever lost it was obviously who lives in Lisbon, who lives in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon and who comes to Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u39	How do you know? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u40	Mr President, with regard to mine law, I would like to say the following: this is the mine law I know in Portugal that best protects environmental values. I don't remember that in the law that VV. Ex. approved in the Assembly of the Republic was prevented from exploiting mineral resources on the Natura 2000 Network or in protected areas. I don't remember. You could have put that in the head there, but I know why you didn't. It's just, at the time, they had good sense. Does the Community Directive on Natura 2000 objectively prevent it? Oh, my God! No, no, no. Does the law that has to do with the protection of natural resources in Portugal prevent it as a general law? Oh, my God! No, no, no. So obviously it shouldn't be here that she should be prevented. Mr President, the Government will not promote any competition in which mining exists in protected areas. But I can give you a good example, which is that of SOMINCOR (Sociedade Mineira de Neves Corvo). I have said several times, and I do not say that there are very few examples in Portugal and Europe of mines that I can cite as such, as an example of good environmental performance, but I know, in fact, of one: that of SOMINCOR, in Castro Verde, in full Natura 2000, which is a good example, from an environmental point of view, of a mine to operate in Portugal, Europe and the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u41	Do you want to close it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u42	Take it easy! [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u43	Mr Luís Leite Ramos continues to use the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u44	Mr President, Minister, my last questions are these: when will the Minister publish the coastal edge planning programme in the north of the country, which has been awaiting its publication since 2018 and which is at the root of the problem in the port area, concerning the beach of Ourigo? When will the Minister publish this and the other programmes in the absence of the coastal shoreline, whose delay has greatly contributed to the disorder in this area? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u45	Mr. Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I alone do not approve the planning plan for the coastal shoreline. It is approved by the Government as a whole, and it is scheduled for that. The delay was not due to publication. It was mandatory to take a new look at the coastal edge plan due to the expansion of the northern spring of the port of Leixões. He did not consist of the initial project and, from the moment it was done, we were naturally forced to study months, to see if the rules of the coastal edge plan had, or did not have, to be altered according to this work. As I said, it is to be discussed in the Council of Ministers and will soon be approved and published. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u47	Mr Bruno Coimbra also spoke in the speaking time of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u48	Mr President, Mr Minister, in fact, he always speaks very well, there is no doubt. The problem is that when presenting data it should be known that « that » of questions is a report from this House, it is not a PSD report. That is why there was an initiative adopted here unanimously — not unanimously, the PS voted against and then, unfortunately, abstained — on the absence of Mr Minister's replies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u50	As for the self-deserving speech you made with regard to the Portuguese Presidency, we know that the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union has fallen far short of what would be desirable. And we also know that the schedule already provided for the European Climate Law to complete this legislative process here. It was the most important thing for Mr. Minister to fail at COP26 (United Nations Climate Change Conference) by Glasgow! Therefore, Mr Minister has done nothing more than what is expected, but he has come here in such a way that he does not even understand very well. On the other hand, if we focus on European dossiers, we see the lack of ambition in the environment again. of the PRRs that have already been delivered by the Member States, the Bruegel Institute analyzed the 14 that already have data for a detailed analysis, and our country is the least valued the environmental component of the projects – no doubt! — the RPP which invests less in the green transition. That is why the press says we are the least ambitious in the environmental transition. With regard to Lisbon, if in fact Mr. Minister leaves the Brussels stratosphere and puts his feet on the ground in Lisbon, what he will find is contaminated soils and a six-year inaction of his, repeatedly ignoring the warnings of this House, questions from various parliamentary groups, political declarations of the PSD and even a resolution adopted here requiring the publication of the PRoSolos. We are therefore one of the most unprotected in Europe in this area. We have mentioned the problems several times, and the Minister acknowledged that there really was a serious failure. He even came to say «there is no delay», but now he says that everything is already scheduled. Mr Minister, Mr President of APA said on World Environment Day that he no longer conceals his frustration with what is a delay in the Minister's responsibility and that the delay in PRoSolos has prevented APA from mapping contaminated soils, has prevented the sale of land and has already damaged the country in tens of millions of euros. Explanations of horses are therefore required. I ask you, why is there a six-year delay in this case? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u51	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Environment and Climate Action, João Pedro Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u52	Mr President, Mr Bruno Coimbra, you have never heard me say that there is no delay in the publication of the PRoSolos. In fact, greater freedom and greater independence between the state and the administration was to have had an arrow down because of a statement by a director-general of mine and whom I highly esteem, which is exactly the one that reproduced. Now, and I go back, out of respect — which is a lot — to Mr Leite Ramos, I mean that the delay in the answers, my own and my team, to the questions of this Parliament is something for which I am penitent.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u53	Ah! I thought it was okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u54	Of course I'm penitent. But now you ask the question out of time, because the 963 questions that have been asked need only answer to 12. Mr Bruno Coimbra, you saw the numbers of the Bruegel Institute and, by the way, you did not question yourself. Is it normal for Denmark — says the document — to spend 91 % of the money on combating climate action? If so, do you know what happened? The plan was plummeted, because 20 % had to be for the digital transition. Mr Deputy, 38 % of the RPP's funds are affected by climate action. Even because the Bruegel Institute — and recognizes it very honestly — only takes into account the values that are directly restricted to the issue of climate action, and one has even been fooled by excess. For example, when it comes to water efficiency in the Algarve, only 157 million are for fighting climate action and they account for 200. But what they forget, because they do not know the program strictly, is that, for example, in housing, 1, 2 bi are dedicated to climate action and to improving the energy efficiency conditions of social neighborhoods; 315 million in health have to do with the recovery of health equipment and have exactly this objective. And therefore, yes, 38 % of PRR’s funds are affected by climate action. This means EUR 6, EUR 3 billion in 16, EUR 6 billion. It's absolutely objective. And what I can say to you with satisfaction is that with the RPP's funds, with the RRSP's funds and with the estimated funds for the next Community support framework, the EUR 2, EUR 3 billion we inherited from the Government of V.E. will be EUR 13 billion for the next Community funding cycle. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u55	Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD Parliamentary Group continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u56	Mr President, Minister, I am glad that he acknowledges that things are not so, because in fact he had almost 60 % questions to answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u57	There's 12 of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u58	It seemed strange now to say otherwise, that everything would be resolved and in time. Indeed, Mr Minister is very good at announcements, promises, but also delays and non-compliances. And, in fact, at the last hearing of the regiment, about these non-compliances, it has also acknowledged — and it has been widely reported — that the targets are compromised. And indeed, the report on the state of the environment was needed, as Mr Luís Leite Ramos said here, because the indicators are worrying. The production of waste remains very high; the preparation for reuse and recycling is insufficient; the landfill is immense; for specific flows there are no targets, there are only mirages; and, basically, the waste sector is chaos and the Minister has not been helping. in this scenario of non-compliance and confusion, up to the essential Decree-Law No 102 - D / 2020, with its Unilex, with its general waste management regime, with the transposition of several European directives, was published by you, having had a public consultation of 15 days and a public consultation report which is not known to date. Well, we just concluded a week ago the parliamentary assessment of this decree and, unlike the government, we heard all the entities and this House approved about half a hundred amendments, which well demonstrates the fragility that its diploma, published in a hurry, had. But despite the improvements, of the many proposals we have also made, many have been rejected by the blockade of the Socialist Party. So what was it that asked him: what accounts do you do to meet the goals and how do you explain these results at the level of the various indicators? What steps will you take to correct the paths you have already taken, indeed, be worrying? How do you intend to induce managing entities to improve their performance?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u59	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u60	I shall now conclude, Mr President. I recall that the PSD's proposal to penalize managing entities based on the level of non-compliance was rejected by the Socialist Party and the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u61	Mr President, if you do not conclude, the time for your second round party must be cut.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u62	I ask whether or not to break the license to those who repeatedly fail to fulfil their obligations in the most serious way. Finally, to conclude, now, I wonder where the action plan is going for REEE (waste of electrical and electronic equipment),...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u63	I thank the services that withdraw this time at the time of the second round of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u64	...the plan that said it was miraculous, which was announced two years ago. When will it be disclosed and discussed? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u65	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Environment and Climate Action, João Pedro Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Bruno Coimbra, the PSD is even the party that has no moral to be able to demand whatever it is,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u67	Come in!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u68	...because, systematically, it is against all measures that go against the principles that VV. Ex. We're defending. [[Protests by PSD Member Bruno Coimbra.]] The PSD, in its proposed amendments to the decree-law that it cited, proposed one amazing thing, among other things: to classify as a selective collection the joint collection of biowaste mixed with other wastes! This was proposed by VV. Ex! The PSD resubmitted the proposal that TGR should be returned to the municipalities, which is assigned to us because of the lack of applications. The PSD is in favour of total irresponsibility in waste management in Portugal. [[Protests by PSD Member Bruno Coimbra.]] Mr President, I conclude by quoting Chico Buarque : « Although you/morning must be another day». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u69	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u70	Mr President, Minister, referred to my statements this week as being 'infamous and unfounded'.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u71	And liars too!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u72	Since you are here today, I wanted to repeat exactly what you said in Setúbal a few days ago: « The Minister of the Environment is faster to protect business than to protect natural resources». And I want to explain, point by point, why I made this statement. In Setúbal, the dredging of the port was challenged by environmentalists, but still advanced. The Minister assesses that, without immediate accidents, everything is all right and right. And he even blames environmentalists for the disappearance of sand from the beaches of Arrábida, as if the perpetual repetition of sand discharges—like those we have seen for years all over the country—has solved something. Worse, Mr.Minister overlooks a serious accident resulting from these processes—I am talking about the bursting of a mudshed basin of the Secil terminal that buried a beach in the Special Protection Zone of the São Paulo Estuary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u73	Ah! Now you're doing well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u74	But my reference to businesses that speak higher than natural resources came especially with regard to the recent decree-law regulating mine law. And for three essential reasons: firstly, it allows mining in protected areas; secondly, it does not have a moratorium on the exploitation of the sea; and thirdly, it does not guarantee the participation of populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u75	Don't you guarantee? Oh, my God! This is to cry out to the heavens!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u76	The Minister of the Environment's response was so extraordinary that I could not fail to notice here. Even because it will be here, too, in Parliament, that we will make the parliamentary assessment of this decree as soon as possible. The Minister of the Environment says that Parliamentary assessment of the decree delays its entry into force. Now, it would be hard to realize that damage could cause the delay of a few weeks—or even a few months—in the parliamentary assessment of a decree that the government has taken nothing less than six years to do. But, above all, it is simply false that this appreciation delays something. It seems strange that the most durable Minister of the Environment in the folder does not know these procedures, but I assure you that the decree is not suspended, it is in force.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u77	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u78	I hope it will be changed by this Parliament, but it is in force. Keep the information to calm it down. But let us therefore be interested in this decree. Mines law regulates activities that, as well documented, cause air, water, soil contamination, and degrade ecosystems, habitats and species. And what happens is that, with this decree, the populations are even far from the process. Monitoring committees only in 'cases where this is justified' — I am quoting the decree — and they are never provided for in the pre-assessment, prospecting, research and experimental exploitation phases. In other words, populations can only follow the facts they have already done. And it's not worth saying that they can win some royalties, because their health and future cannot be a hidden part of this bill. Secondly, unlike the version submitted to public debate, any reference to mining in the sea was deleted from this decree. I am glad that the Government retreats in its intention to regulate this kind of exploitation, but the absolute void does not reassure anyone. The Minister of the Sea himself has already admitted here in Parliament that it was better a moratorium of 10 to 20 years while assessing the development of technology to reduce impacts in these marine areas. Thirdly, the Government's decree allows the mining — of lithium or other — in protected areas, since it determines that these areas are excluded — and I quote — « whenever possible». Therefore, when it is not possible, there is exploitation in protected areas! Mr. Minister says he will never do this exploration, but the law he is doing says that it can exist. More: I said, in statements I read, that there was no problem, because there were instruments of specific management of protected areas. Mr Minister, the question is not whether we will then manage properly the prospecting in protected areas, the question is that there cannot be exploration and exploitation of minerals in protected areas. It's as simple as that. The European Environment Agency has recently put Portugal as the worst country in the European Union to defend protected areas — we have more than 70 % of protected habitats in decline. And if you want a list of examples of overcoming the protection of the environment for business protection, I would ask you to note: compliance with years of EDP delay in meeting the environmental obligations of the granting of dams, which contrasts with the expeditious way in which you authorised your sale without protection of the public interest; licensing of intensive and superintensive monocultures in the natural park area; tourist mega-enterprises between Troy and Sines and constructions on the coastal shore between Way and Espinho; tourismification of protected areas; tourist hunting areas that put at risk populations of species; continues the import of waste, even dangerous — the garbage business; giving to the industry of the disposable definition of its own reusable packaging targets for drinks; and delivering the ex ante environmental and strategic evaluation of the agricultural policy common to the company directed by the former Secretary of State of Assunción Cristas, of the Government that has made the 'Eucalipto' law and now directs the employers' association. Looking at all these examples, Minister, the business that interests some has led to the best, yes, on the resources, which are all of them. Or do you find another explanation in any of these cases? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u79	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Environment and Climate Action, João Pedro Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, starting with, if I may, from the back to the front, because the questions have been many, I must say that I am not part of the Portuguese cellulose association. I did not vote on whom they chose for their direction, so I do not understand why this question is addressed to me. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Catarina Martins.]] I would like to give me some examples of the complacency with regard to construction on the north coast. I refer to you two cases that you certainly forgot when you made your list, which, until you see, is an empty set: the hotel, in Matosinhos, which was licensed by a part of the REN (National Ecological Network), in which the embargo was decided by ourselves; and, a few days ago, an incredible concrete construction on the beach of Ourigo, in the city of Porto. It will certainly be recalled that these two good examples of what you have referred to. The agricultural activity, Mrs Deputy, has no environmental license. It comes from a time when you realize it was. There was a gap in the law of environmental impact assessment that was suppressed by us. It has been corrected and will never cease to have environmental impact assessment in projects in which it is determined so, so there can be no use for an administrative gap of anyone. Madam Member, the moratoriums are not decided by law, they are political commitments. I remember very well when the Left Block took part in the fight against the oil hole in Aljezur. Basically, what the Block wanted was for the government to act like D. Quixote. In other words, paying compensation to Galp was what the Block would force us to do. We have solved this issue very well, without paying any compensation to Galp and there is also no oil hole. There, yes, a moratorium was defined. But that is a political commitment. Moratories are not defined by law. The honourable Member said something completely contrary to what she said last Sunday, except for a mistake. Now I told her well, when she said that there is no line in our decree-law on the exploitation of marine resources. Last Sunday, I said something quite different about this, but now I said well. That is why, and because this is a matter which, of course, must be protected in the first place by my Minister of the Sea, of course, with all our support and solidarity, to prepare the rules to be built here. Madam Member, when you come to say that there is no public participation in the processes of the new mines, I am, in fact, open-minded,... [[Rice from BE Catarina Martins' deputy.]] ... because it appears in the previous assessment, in prospection and research, either at the request of the interested party or by prior competitive procedure, in the experimental holding, in the granting of the holding. The existence of public clarification sessions is mandatory, regardless of the size of the process. So what I can tell you is that, in fact, more public participation than that which exists here... You might even quote me some example, but I don't know any. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u81	Mrs Catarina Martins, of the Left Block, continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u82	Mr President, Minister, record that he said nothing about exploitation in a protected area. And I note that, on most of the subjects, he has mainly disagreed. This is not a pun! The Minister of the Environment has sometimes stated, with some scope, that he is not an environmentalist and that he wants the Ministry of the Environment to stop being the Ministry of the « no» and become the Ministry of the « yes ». It is true that the Minister has a great deal of longevity, but it is fair to acknowledge that many of his predecessors have always been saying yes. They were saying that yes to intensive agriculture in protected areas, they were saying yes to the lack of consultation of popular participation in decisions related to health and the environment. They've always been saying yes! The problem, Minister, is that we don't have time. There is a dilemma, which is as false as old, that it will be in our hands to choose something between development and the environment, and that always ends in the same way: big business for some, deep damage to everyone. Minister, the climate crisis is here! And their answers, always round and never concrete,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u83	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u84	... are word games that help nothing to the decisions that have to be made. The time is even for the intransigent protection of natural resources and our common home. And I can only conclude that this Parliament will agree to withdraw the possibility of prospecting in protected areas. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u85	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister for the Environment and Climate Action.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have always said, and I will say, that I am not an environmentalist, because I think that for a person to be able to say environmentalist has to have a past of militancy that I do not have. Perhaps you have — although I do not know you — but I do not. And since I do not, in fact, have any past of militancy in these matters, rather than being a minister, I have always said that, as far as environmentalists are concerned, I am not or, if I wish, I am not yet, and I will have to have this militancy for many years in order to be able to assert myself as such. Madam Member, I think it is extraordinary how it speaks of the import of hazardous waste, which have been systematically objected to. But there is a good reason for, for example, to further reduce the import, which is marginal, of waste, whether they are dangerous or not. Do you know what it is? For example, increase the TGR against which VV. Ex. they are. If VV. For example, they would allow the TGR to be increased, most likely the problem of what it is talking about, and that there is basically no... when you — and not only — said that Portugal was Europe's garbage dump, we were the destination of 1 %, 6 % of Europe's waste trade. Repeat: 1, 6 %! Does the honourable Member know where you are going to go all the wastes of Italy that have come to Portugal and that you have stopped coming? They are all being incinerated in Denmark. Don't miss the demonstration! They're all being incinerated in Denmark! What do you think this is, Your Honor? Oh, my God! For God's sake! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Deputy, when she talks about intensive agricultural production in protected areas, she can also say the whole sentence. There is only agricultural production in a protected area in Portugal. Why? Because it's a water perimeter! [[Mr. BE Nelson Peralta's protests.]] The intensive agricultural exploitation—and we can obviously discuss a lot about it here, but not with the time I have now to finish this response—is passed on to a water perimeter which, except error, in the 1980s, in the early 1990s, was integrated into the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina. And in good time it was, because there are a set of environmental rules to distance the coast line from 80 % of greenhouses to 40 %. And what do they result from? If included in a protected area. But he never stopped being—and although he never said it, as much as he did not say it, he continues to be — a water perimeter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u87	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, the Government comes to the Assembly of the Republic to congratulate itself. But reality is not so benevolent. In fact, the government does something amazing, which is to talk about environmental policy without really talking about the nature and protection of ecosystems. It does not cease to be admirable to those who self-title themselves to avant-garde in climate action. However, Mr Minister, the conservation of nature, the preservation of natural resources and the proper planning of the territory are tasks of the State — our Constitution does not ignore nature and the right to the environment. But, as you can see, the issues relating to spatial planning and conservation of nature have been relegated to the background, due to a commercialist vision which, moreover, is successive to the PSD/CDS government. It's a mistake! The government may continue to replace everything that exists by electric counterparts, but if it does not protect areas with special protection and potential solutions based on nature already existing, little is being done on climate change. Over the past 20 years, Portugal has lost 47% of tree cover.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u89	Did you lose 47 percent?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u90	According to the CNADS (National Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development), Portugal has three quarters of its habitats in poor or inadequate state and only 21% in favour. For protected species, 62 % were in a bad or unfavorable state. In view of this, what is your vision for the conservation of nature? What view for protected areas? Will they continue to be neglected or will the government follow the CFP's proposal when we say that dignity must be given to these areas, with a new form of management, closer to which each protected area of the national scope corresponds to an organic unit of intermediate direction, with means affecting its mission? And how does the government want to preserve nature without valuing who takes care of it, particularly nature watchers, whose career needs to be regulated and valued? And the same can be said of the Florestal Guards. But uncertainty, indifference is the same if we look at water resources, despite the successive announcements. The rivers Tinto, Nabão, Alviela, Dão, Ave, Torto, Paiva, Ferreira, Ceira, out there all have in common pollution, lack of control capacity and then application of their consequences. The government says it is time to act, but it takes time to correct the fact that about half of the surface water masses have a lower state than good! What matters is whether the money that announces will mean more vigilantes of nature, it will mean guards, if it will provide these teams with more modern means, if it will mean an increase in monitoring. These are the truly productive investments that need to be made. It's time to act, yes. Besides, it's always time to act. But this is done with nature conservation actions and habitat restoration and not with strawberries. This matter has not merited due attention, but the basis of environmental policy can only be this. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u91	To reply, Mr President, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u92	Mr President, Mrs Alma Rivera, I would like to begin by saying that I may have heard a wrong report. When he says Portugal has lost 47% of the tree cover, that is a number that is obviously wrong! It's not even 4, 7%! I can't understand where that number came from, but eventually it was my hearing impairment. I would like to tell you now that there are also things that you have mentioned that are not up-to-date. When she talks about the pollution of the Tinto River, she's completely wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u93	You have to see the news this week!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u94	You can't see where the Tinto River is! On the Tinto River, I even know the project very well; I started it before I became a minister. It is even an exceptional example of an unpolluted river, with a very relevant project that allowed not only to improve the water quality of the river as, at the same time, being today a structuring space between the East Port and Gondomar, where I recommend you take a good walk, because it is really worth it, right next to the Tinto River. Mrs Deputy, I have no doubt that the most structural issue of environmental policies, which translates into mitigating or reducing greenhouse gases and adapting to a planet with new climate conditions, will become the restoration of ecosystems and the protection of biodiversity. I really think this is going to be the next driving force of environmental policies. We've done a lot for this, Mrs. Deputies. More than 60 million euros have been and are being invested in nature conservation. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia is no longer here, but, always on the proposal of the Greens Ecological Party, we have doubled the number of nature vigilantes. We have finally hired — because, as a three-year contract, I don't know how many new men are — 100 new men (in fact, one of the contractors is a lady) for the forest agent body, and we are much more present in the territory. Mrs Deputies, we find it absolutely essential, without ever being the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests, to lose any of the responsibilities, particularly at the level of licensing, to share the management of parks and areas protected by the authorities. We know that your party disagrees, having passed a minor attestation to your party's autarchs, because only one of the parks will not be managed in co-management, which is the Park of Arrábida. It will be the only one, because you understand that the PCP's authors have no competence to do so. Fortunately, in the rest of the country, all other autarchs have competence to do so. Maybe, these have it, too, but finally... of what I know, they certainly do. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, that is really our principle. That is what we are doing, and that is the transformation in management that we are creating. of it will certainly result many important and positive things, and there are many examples that we can already give. I'm not just talking about the future, I'm talking about the huge ecosystem restoration exercise that happened in Gerês, Ramiscal, in Mata da Alberbergaria. I'm talking about the restoration of the rupee bird ecosystems in the Natural Park of the International Douro. I'm talking about the restoration of the wolf ecosystem in Montesinho. All of them were recovered, all of them returning to restoring the mosaic landscape that all these territories have. And no, Mrs. Member, I do not agree with the existence of a director in each park. I know well the experiences of the parks with the directors, I remind myself of some positive, few, but, in general, passing a minor certificate to the autarchs, what we had, at the bottom, was an unelected author and I like too much of democracy to make proposals from these. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u95	I now give the floor to Mr Duarte Alves, even at the time of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, I will ask a number of questions about energy policy and, first of all, about energy sovereignty. The sale of the six EDP dams to the French consortium Engie was a monumental fiscal scandal, but the segmentation of the EDP concession, questioning the possibility of recovering a sovereign energy policy, is another scandal that could and should have been prevented by the government. The closure of the Galp refinery in port also means that we will have to import what we produced—fuels and other industrial products, such as bitumen, toluene, xylenes, among others—which is added to the sale, by Galp, of the Natural Gas Distribution, to whom it has no conditions to operate this business. When Costa and Silva says — and well — in the Strategic Vision for the Portugal Economic Recovery Plan 2020 - 2030, that it is necessary to bet on national production, it might not be a bad idea to start by not destroying the existing industrial productive capacity and installed in our country, as is the case of the refinery of Porto. When EDP and Galp accumulate profits and distribute dividends, the government does nothing to prevent these companies from investing in major strategic assets for the country and it becomes increasingly clear that these companies are too strategic to be in the hands of private companies. Mr Minister, on the price of energy next to it in Spain, the government intervenes in the face of rising prices in wholesale markets. In Portugal, we still have one of the most expensive energy bills in Europe and we see no initiative to control prices that become impractical to most Portuguese people. ERSE ( Energy Services Regulatory Entity ) has already announced an increase of 3 % previously in regulated rates, i.e. plus 1 € in monthly invoices. What justifies this if renewable energy has an increasing participation? Will or will not the government stop this rise which will later also reflect on consumer tariffs that are outside the regulated market? With regard to gas, in 2019 the government launched the measure of the large-scale social gas shop, but after all, arrived in February 2021, gave up the measure and abandoned the pilot project. It remained the government without reply to what was approved in Budgets of the previous State, which was to limit the prices of the stock gas, bringing them closer to those of Spain. When are you gonna do it? Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you a specific question about solar energy and photovoltaic panels. Is the allocation of perpetual rights at injection points in the electrical network acceptable? Are we talking about a perpetual concession? Yes or no? Can these injection points then be used for other energy sources instead of solar sources?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u97	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u98	Finally, did the Government ask that the legality and constitutionality of the decision be assessed to assign perpetual rights to injection points in the electrical network? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u99	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister for the Environment and Climate Action.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u100	Mr President, Mr Deputy, starting at the end, there is no concession in electricity. It is indeed a link to the network, which is a license and which, in the field of energy, as all I know, is perpetual. What I can say — insisting that there is no concession, because objectively it is not — is that the prices we have achieved, far below the market prices, have been achieved precisely because we have used this modality. Therefore, for 15 years we will have this contract that has been established, which makes all Portuguese able to benefit greatly from this energy reduction. Mr Duarte Alves, I was more relaxed with the second part of your question, because in the first part, I was going to conclude that the CFP likes private monopolies or thinks that EDP should be the owner of all dams. Nevertheless, the second part of the question left me more serene, because I was quite worried.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u101	He didn't hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u102	Mr President, I think it is important that EDP be less monopolistic than it is in the production of electricity and therefore I have never seen any reason for any objection to the sale of these dams, as a political objection and fundamental objection. I've already said it and I'll repeat it again.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u103	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u104	Mr. Deputies, the dams are here, the dams will continue to produce electricity for the Portuguese. If Mr President will allow me a final note on energy sovereignty, I would like to say that Portugal has no oil and, therefore, energy sovereignty can be exploited by exploiting the wind, water and sun, these, yes, national resources to produce electricity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u105	I give the floor to Mr Pedro Morais Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u106	Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Minister, Mr. Members of the Government and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, climate change and the sustainability agenda are increasingly on the agenda. Portugal is the country of Europe which will suffer the most from the impacts of these same climate changes, for example, with a drier climate, a decrease in the availability of water and agricultural production capacity, an increase in the risks of drought, loss of biodiversity, forest fires, heat waves, rising sea level and subsequent threats to coastal areas. Mr Minister, for the global challenges, the answers have to be local, and they must be more and more because, in order to achieve carbon neutrality, the battle of sustainability is won or lost in each of our lands. Portugal, Minister, has numerous climate plans and strategies—and well—but there is indeed a lack of coordination between the various environmental initiatives and failures to monitor their implementation. Between rules, strategies, plans, there may be 40 — there! — i.e. the current political response to the fight against climate change is dispersed, as I said, in several documents, routes, plans and strategies and is very inefficient and efficient. Now, Mr Minister, that the Government has received green light from the European Commission with the approval of the PRR, it is essential to ensure, in fact, that these environmental targets are properly defined in all sectors, from energy to transport, sea, waste, agriculture and forests. But most importantly, Mr Minister, there is proper planning and coordination, which is fundamental, with the various ministries and also with the involvement of the authorities, and the timing of these goals, in the short, medium and long-term, ensuring that these same goals are actually met. Mr Minister, the question I would ask you is the following : how will this government schedule these same actions and targets for the investments presented in the RPP? How will the government articulate all these plans with local power in order to speed them up?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u107	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u108	Mr President, I was here looking for a timetable in the midst of my leaves that I cannot find so as to make the answer more explicit. Mr President, if it is true that there has to be a lot of responses at the local level, do not trust what you have said. The problem of climate change is indeed a global problem and there must also be responses to the global scale. If you tell me that many of the solutions have to do with the territory and that, therefore, the country, where it is located, I have no doubt that the existence of a compromise is absolutely essential, because there are even games in which the team plays the worst of its players. In the game of climate change, if it is not played in the same way by everyone and with the same degree of commitment, it is inevitable that, as much as they strive, there is always someone who, when not trying, will make everyone else stay behind. Mr President, the schedule of the PRR is absolutely clear. I gave numerous examples of what our Ministry has already done, even before the PRR. For example, we launched the warning for the formation of bio-economic consortia, we launched the project or contest of ideas for the new bridge on the Douro, for the metro of the Port and just the metro, it will not be a road bridge, and still in the Port — I am looking at Mrs Cecilia Meireles and reminding myself of the city — there are the 11 proposals we have already received for the construction of the metro line between the House of Music and the Holy Ovideo. All these are PRR projects that we started before time. As I said for the week, we will launch one of the most important warnings: the notice on 30 of the 300 or 310 million euros, except error, intended to improve the energy efficiency of buildings will already be launched, with a share rate that is not 70 %, as in the previous notice, but 85 %. As I think you know, the PRR inhibits VAT (value added tax) being paid and therefore we make compensation for it. As I also mentioned in my speech, examples of the efficiency of combating energy poverty, renewable gases and all other projects have their own schedule. I even have these more detailed data but I can't find the paper. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u109	Mr Pedro Morais Soares continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u110	Mr Minister, in fact, the PRR's funds for combating climate change are significant—and well—and the country has a unique opportunity here. The proper application of these same funds is essential in order to maximize that same execution, ensuring return. This return must be guaranteed in advantages friendly to the environment, with a financial return, if possible, to Portugal. Mr Minister, it is necessary to understand that, in fact, these environmental challenges are also a unique opportunity for the transformation of our industry — opportunities for innovation, opportunities for the creation of new professions, development of a new economy, more environmentally friendly. For this reason, I would like to ask you how are the bases established to ensure the transition that the Portuguese state and community will make to an economy in order to achieve the so-called carbon neutrality that Mr Minister speaks so much about?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u111	In reply, Mr Minister for the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u112	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Member for his question. However, I found the timetable and, for the specific case, just to see how things are detailed, only for the energy efficiency of buildings we have: in the second quarter of this year, a notice to support the energy renewal of buildings of EUR 30 million; in the third quarter, a warning to the installation of capacity for self-consumption and energy care in the residential sector, with the distribution of 20 000 vouchers for efficiency; in the third quarter, a warning to support energy renewal in buildings of the Public Administration, and out there. In one case, we actually have a very detailed timetable. Mr President, thanking you very much for your question, as I said in my initial speech, a very expressive part of what industrial investments will be and reindustrialisation in Portugal ends up being indirectly — private investments — under the protection of our Ministry. In other words, a very significant part of these investments, which are mainly funded through the PRR, has to do with the decarbonisation of the industry, approximately EUR 700 million, with the installation of new renewable energy sources, which, while being solar and wind source, does not have funding for this part because the market dispenses it. But Mr President, I would like to say above all : of the almost EUR 1000 million — EUR 900 million and such a billion — that exists for the innovative agendas for industry, there is no doubt that a very expressive part — is likely to be more than 50 % — will be linked to the production of green hydrogen and the entire cluster of batteries, i.e. areas that are under indirect protection, of course because they are private initiatives, of this Ministry. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u113	Mr. Pedro Morais Soares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u114	Mr President, I spoke recently about climate change, the water problem and the lack of strategic vision on the part of the Government, which does not actually invest in infrastructures that allow us to retain water in the years in which it rains. I am speaking of the replacement of very significant public supply water pipelines, many of which exceed 40 %, of which I am talking about the use of ETAR (residual water treatment stations) for water, because most of them, Mr Minister, do not work in such a way that water can be used. Although there are some investments from the PRR, it is true that this matter is too important to be ignored or for the government to wave to the side, as if nothing had happened. This is a theme that has to be studied, developed and implemented concrete solutions in order not to mortgage the future. Mr Minister, the water retention in Portugal is 'zero' and I am not going to talk about dams here, but the government is not actually having policies with municipalities to create, for example, municipal water retention basins or water retention mechanisms at the level of our cities at municipal level. These are necessary and urgent measures, Minister. What has the government done about this, a problem that has to do with water retention and that will affect Portugal very much in the future? What has this government done to create water retention mechanisms?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u116	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister for the Environment and Climate Action.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Morais Soares, the honourable Member is younger than I am, but he has certainly learned at school what I have learned: that a river has a source, has a ditch and, between the source and the foz, there is a course, which must be as free as possible. This rule of nature remains. Speaking in climate change and talking in dams is even want two completely different things in the same sentence.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u118	I didn't talk about dams!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u119	Mr President, water losses are, as you know, in municipal systems. You don't know high water loss values in this country, because they don't exist. So they're in the municipal systems. Well, what I can say is that the SEUR PO has already been able to promote investments, practically in the order of EUR 845 million, almost exclusively for the fall. One of these specific warnings was, exactly, to fight water losses and, with that, we were able to have results. And the results will essentially go through the aggregation of systems, because most of these water losses are not physical losses — fortunately, to the environment — are commercial losses, unfortunately to the common citizens, who have to pay for these losses in the same way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u120	You have the floor to ask your questions, Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u121	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for the Environment, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Tomorrow, June 17, the World Day of Combating Desertification and Dryness is celebrated. There is 60% of our territory at risk of desertification—who says it is the Centre that the government created in 2018. He created the Centre, but political decisions are missing. In the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Meta 15 sets the goal to stop and reverse land degradation. We ask you when and how will these policies enter the agenda of the Minister for the Environment? In view of the reality in terms of water scarcity, Mr President, he insists not to demand the review of the Albufeira Convention, nor does he follow up on the recommendations made by this House. The minimum flows defined in the Convention shall not apply in situations of exception. Knowing that the average level of precipitation has been reduced and that, in the last 10 years, exceptional situations have been applied, and also knowing that, with the effects of climate change, a reduction of precipitation is planned up to 40 %, we can conclude that, in the future, these exceptional situations will not be reviewed, such as no minimum flows will be defined, i.e., we will be faced with the futility of this Convention. In view of this strategy, Minister, who thanks you are the hydroelectrics and Spain. Still on this subject, the water scarcity, the Mira Beneficiaries Association cut water to small farmers, who had long been supplying the water channel connected to the Santa Clara dam, which, even before the beginning of summer, was less than half that which would be their capacity. This shortage of water in this particular area is clearly compounded by the unsustainable consumption patterns of intensive agriculture on the Alentejan coast. What we would like to ask here today and now is what environmental policies will effectively be for the Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina Natural Park, because, Mr. Minister, in 2017, IGAMAOT (General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Land Planning) was very clear in the inspection you did as to what you needed to do. What we would like to know is whether the Minister of the Environment will effectively ensure the implementation of a territorial management programme for this park and whether we follow the proposal of the NAP, in particular the suspension of intensive and superintensive agricultural activities until what IGAMAOT identified in the report that effectively resolved it. On mining, which has already been mentioned today, the Minister has not yet said what response will be given to environmental associations, in particular as regards what is provided for in Article 28 (2). the, i.e. the permit of mining in sensitive areas ; as provided for in Article 14 ( 8 ). the, with regard to the limitation of the opinion of the municipalities to the question of prospecting, and the one set out in point ( p ) of Annex II, paragraph 1, which allows the prospecting of less than 1 km of the populations in the light of mitigating measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u122	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister for the Environment and Climate Action.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, Mrs Deputy, would be a horrible dream to imagine that you had the responsibility for 24 hours to negotiate the Albufeira Convention with Spain and arrive at Spain and say: « I want to renegotiate this Convention». You know why? Do you know what Spain was saying right away? He said: "Yes, we want to renegotiate this Convention already! Because when she was signed, Mrs.Tejo, on average, had a flow of 25 % more water than she has today. I have certainly heard — I do not fail to praise the Spanish Government for doing so, even though it has not done anything more than its obligation — the enormous reduction of the Tejo Segura transvazes. All of this happened. Madam Member, the Convention is actually being fulfilled, and we know that, unfortunately, on a weekly basis, the regularity of the tails is not what we want. Mrs. Deputy, the Santa Clara Dam now has more water than I had a year ago. It's not because it's news in the paper that there's more water or less water. By now, Santa Clara's dam has been made with which purpose or, better, was made for what end? One: the agricultural water. It was not done for anything else, it was made for the agricultural water! And from the dam of Santa Clara, which was made for agricultural use, is made human supply, and this human supply has obviously always priority — whatever it is — because it supplies a portion of the municipality of Odemira — in relation to the water for agriculture. But it has been done, I repeat, with only one objective, that was indeed an agricultural stream. Mrs Deputy, with regard to mines and in the opinion of the municipalities, Mrs Deputy, I do not know what you are comparing the decree — it must be with the lost paradigm that Edgar Morin was talking about. Why don't you compare this law with everything that existed before? Please make that comparison! What was the power of municipalities in the projects until there was this bill? What was it? Oh, my God! It was the power to give an opinion. What is it now? In all cases—and, look, I know, so far, in democracy, I even want to say all cases, because the State has never promoted any contest like what will promote for lithium—, municipalities have the power to chumbar, to veto any mining development project. Obviously, they cannot do so because they are ‘smelling like this’ or because they are ‘smelling’, they have to do according to specific rules, just as if you want to build a residence in a territory the camera can't tell you: ‘Look, no, because I don't like you’. It has to say 'no' because it does not comply with the PDM (Municipal Director Plan) or because it does not comply with any other municipal regulation, of course. In the absence of such a failure, the municipalities have, in fact, the total power in individual promotion projects — legitimate but individual — in the interests of the country itself and not necessarily in the interests of the country, to be able to veto these same projects. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u124	I have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group on Greens, to put your questions, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u125	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of the Environment is transformed into a superministerial, where everything lies. Despite this, or because of it, despite the broadening of the collective consciousness that it is necessary to protect the planet, the Ministry's responses are questionable. There's still a lot to do. The pollution of rivers and water lines is still a concern. The protection of nature and biodiversity is far from what could be expected, with the strengthening of resources and materials to waste. We even question whether this reinforcement, done a great deal at the initiative of the Greens, compensates for exits and natural wear. We believe that government bet is a growth that does not protect soils, water, animals and native species. If we need to be ambitious about the development of our country, it is true that we are also responsible for the footprint that we will leave for the future. At the beginning of May, the Green Mining Conference, a high-level international event in the area of mineral resources, was held at the CCB ( Centro Cultural de Belém ), with the most diverse experts on the subject in order to find out how to convince people that mining can be a « green » activity. Outside, dozens of people from all over the country manifested themselves and claimed that 'green' is the territory where they live, work and preserve, daily, populations that have already seen and felt the consequences of an extractive industry that, only in the prospecting process, left a trail of destruction. And no, Mr Minister, the populations that live in the places where mining farms are planned, especially lithium, are not against just because they are against. Your position is clear. It cannot be 'green' the destruction of soils that are used for food in innovative projects and financed by various supports, fertile land for livestock, such as for indigenous and classified breeds, with quality food products and recognized worldwide. The narrative is that lithium is the future, that there will be nothing else if we do not fulfill this design, but the problem is not lithium batteries, the problem is that the government is planning to replace 500 cars with motor combustion by 500 cars with electric motor, when it should be thinking about developing, exponentially, public transport collective throughout Portuguese territory. We have taken a step forward with the PART, but, with the periods of confinement, we have gone back and we see no commitment to recover—and it is not in the metropolitan areas, Minister, it is throughout the Portuguese territory. Another problem is the environmental liability, which we know of the past and which is not yet solved, and what will remain for the future. So we ask: where are lithium mines going to be granted anyway? With so many ads, so many advances and retreats we don't know anymore! And there is still a lack of transparency in this process. A second issue, which also has to do with mining: the environmental impact study of the project in Cairo, near the Parque Natural de Montesinho, was in public consultation in Portugal in the summer of 2020. APA will be requesting additional explanations from the Spanish Government. Does the government already have this supplementary information? How does the Government intend to safeguard natural resources in the Montesinho Natural Park — today, Mr Minister has already mentioned here a great investment in the protection of the Iberian wolf — specifically the cross-border water masses in the area, such as the Savour and Honor rivers, the biodiversity and sustainability of the local economy, associated with nature tourism and the production of endogenous products? [[Congrats from PCP MP Duarte Alves.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice-President Antonio Filipe was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u126	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister for the Environment and Climate Action.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u127	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, said the honourable Member, with regard to the Green Mining conference, that science is a way to deceive people. That's what you said. I have a lot of difficulty commenting on this phrase. [[Protests by PEV MP Mariana Silva.]] Dir-CL-I will just tell you that, in fact, contrary to what, perhaps, some still think, the man has even come to the moon and, contrary to what others are saying, that Mars is blue and green, Mars is really arid, as all the images show. Madam Member, the ENP is the party that wants to reduce emissions by 65 %, but it does not make the most paleest idea of how — the palest idea! [[Protests by PEV MP Mariana Silva.]] In fact, it wants to reduce emissions by 65 % by ensuring that all the chimneys continue to silage, cheerfully and ensuring that there is indeed no energy transition. This is the PEV bet. Mrs Deputy, support for public transport? 2020 budget: EUR 261 million so that collective transport companies would never stop caring for them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u128	But they left and still haven't refused.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u129	Forecast for this year? Up to EUR 371 million. The honourable Member was against, it was against because it is essential to change things since the very thing is done: it was against the circular line, but it is under construction; the PCP and the ENP found that there should never be — until there was a proposal in this sense — no metro line in the city of Porto, but they have changed their mind, close to the municipal elections, and are under construction; 700 high-environmental buses have been acquired, and there is a warning from the PO SEUR to leave now, of 40 million, for the purchase of 135 buses — said this in my speech, but it was further away from you — just for all the territory of the country except the two metropolitan areas; the investment that is being made, and will be made, through the PRR, in the meters of Lisbon and Porto is more than known; the investment in the railway, which I will not describe, is the one that VV. Ex. They also know. Mrs Deputies, the government's bet is even that of collective transport: firstly, in management, in order to give the CIM and the metropolitan areas a role of greater importance in all the management of the supply; secondly, in investment, either in infrastructure or in modes of movement; and thirdly, as he said, and very well—we know that he has always accompanied us! — reducing the price of transport licences. Mrs Deputy, between April and December 2019, we achieved an increase of 12 % in demand for collective transport in Portugal. Unfortunately, the year 2020 is not for history. Because of what? Because of a thing that certainly was noticed and called COVID-19. And unfortunately also, although we feel today that there is already a recovery in demand, even in territories that do not have great conditions, it is still far from what it was when the pandemic began. Therefore, we must continue to make a great effort to promote the use of collective transport, and I think that the numbers we have today of the pandemic would not leave us well if we shared in advertising what is, undeniably — I can only agree with you — the best way people can transport and move in cities and territories. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u130	Montesinho and lithium are next!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u131	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo is registered to intervene, but he is not present in the Chamber, so the Socialist Party follows. Mr Hugo Pires has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Using a football giraffe to classify this debate and, above all, the interventions of the PSD and the Left Block, I would say that it was a foot drive together, with much strength and little technique, on the part of these parties. The Left Block came to talk about the problem of waste, when it tried to delay successively the increase in TGR, and came to talk about the closure of the Galp refinery in Matosinhos, when it then speaks in the decarbonization of society. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u133	The PSD came to talk about cases and cases, about how many questions it answered, how many did it not answer, when the PSD government did zero for sustainable development and for the environment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD put all the structural projects for the decarbonization of society in the drawer and, moreover, with this leadership, voted against the PART, against the reduction of public transport tariffs,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... a decisive measure for the decarbonization of society, to help families, which brought more passengers to public transport and which also improved vehicles a lot. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u134	I would therefore like to say to these two parties that the Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party receive no lessons from anyone, at least from these two parties, on sustainable development and on environmental policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This Socialist Party Government was the first, worldwide, to undertake the commitment of carbon neutrality to 2050. Today we are one of the countries that is in a better position to meet the 2030 mid-term targets according to the latest European reports. In 2030 we will reduce 55 % of our carbon emissions, incorporate more than 80 % of renewable energy into the energy networks and electrify 30% of land mobility. This will require investment. It will be about EUR 2000 million per year, which is a colossal investment in transition and climate balance. Public transport has a very important function. As I have already said, the PART was a decisive measure for the decarbonization of society, to greatly improve the quality of life of Portuguese in the two metropolitan areas, Lisbon and Porto, but Portugal is not only Lisbon and Porto. Portugal is a country that goes from Valencia to Vila Real de Santo António and the other municipalities also have the right to have support for public transport. This was the first government to help and recognize this injustice in mobility and to adopt a new programme, called PROTransP, which funds the inter-municipal communities. We also know that this Government will open a warning of EUR 40 million to equip and equip all CIMs who want to compete with new electric buses and hydrogen. We welcome this Government of the Socialist Party because it is the first Government in Portugal to look throughout the territory and not only to the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u135	That was a joke, wasn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u136	Therefore, by welcoming the Socialist Party's Government for this measure, I ask the Minister what his view of public transport is and whether he has other investment prospects in the national territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u137	The Minister for the Environment has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u138	Mr President, Mr Hugo Pires, you are absolutely right about the PSD and the PART. There is, in a film by Paul Thomas Anderson, called Magnólia, a phrase that I never forgot: « We can forget about the past, the past is that it never forgets us». And, in fact, the lead of the PSD is always to pursue them. None of us will ever forget that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, Mr President, even at the SEUR PO, in which it is basically the use of the normal breaks that take place in the execution of some candidatures — until the PSD is in government — we have managed to find EUR 40 million solely for the acquisition of variable-sized buses, thinking that some of them can be small, destined for the whole country, except for the metropolitan areas. When I say 135 buses, this is obviously an estimate, because the more they can be as they can be a little bit less. I remember the warnings from the PO SEUR to date which certainly corresponded to a very large improvement. We all remember — the PSD is afraid of trying to forget, but we will never forget! — which launched competitions for the privatisation of Carris by forcing buses to be diesel and could be in second hand, but in the PO SEUR the notices were launched for gas and electric buses. in this last warning, they will be electric or hydrogen, not only being intended to acquire the bus itself—in good rigour, are the Community rules of the differential between a common diesel bus, as PSD likes, and an electric bus or hydrogen— but also its forms of loading and even energy production, directly. This is, in fact, the vision we have for transport in this country, a vision clearly based on collective transport, recognizing that the fragmentation of the territory, cities and the very life of many of us, increasingly, does not allow us to say that collective transport will respond to all the travels that have to be made in cities. Obviously, there will always have to be an individual way of transporting people, possibly on foot, possibly in soft modes, which does not have to be in a car, but, if it is in a car, it is electrical and is better shared. We want very much, in this intervention period that happens at the end of an SEUR PO which had zero for collective transport—that is how we inherited it! — be able to make investments in other cities and one of them will be Braga. We really want to fund a BRT (busrapid transit) to the city of Braga because, by its size, it already has the capacity to have such a mode of transport. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u139	Mr Fernando Paulo Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u140	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Faces and Dear Members: Due to extreme climate change and climate phenomena, which the occupation and waterproofing of the soil is not outside, we have more often seen sudden torrential situations, particularly in the water lines. This puts the requalification and conservation of water lines at the heart of state concerns, either for the protection of people and goods, or for the conservation and promotion of ecosystems. These central concerns by the State began when the Minister took over the background of the environment and the Government of the Socialist Party took account of the country's destinations. In this respect, in order to understand the difference, we would like to explain to this House what level of investment it has envisaged in this area of rivers and banks and also how much the previous government, the PSD / CDS, had planned for this same area. This difference between much and nothing can explain the level of administrative inquiry that the PSD has brought to this parliamentary debate, without any idea or proposal for the environment in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Interventions on water lines covering 1400 km have been invested and are under way, in particular to avoid filling up and create new short-fire lines, with very important renaturalization interventions in our country. The time has come for rivers such as Ferreira and Ave, the banks of the Nabão, the Leça river, Vouga, Guadiana and, of course, the Tejo, as it could not cease to be. In this regard, Mr Minister, we would also like to see in this account of the interventions under way and in particular the intervention planned for the Póvoa fly in the Vila Franca de Xira municipality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u141	You have the floor Mr. Minister, to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u142	Mr President, Mr President, you asked me two questions with very different degrees of complexity, how much the PSD had planned and how much we invested. The first answer is very easy: the PSD had predicted zero. The second answer is more complex. I have been making an account, at the heart of your question, and could be omitted, I find EUR 93 million promoted by the PO SEUR, EUR 16 or 17 million that were realized through the Environmental Fund of these 1000 km of rivers and rivers intervention after the 2017 fires. By not hiding, however, the existence of the multiple pollution problems affecting the water masses in the country outside—not wanting to point to anyone's responsibilities, in good rigour, they result from the fragility of treatment systems that are invariably municipal—we still have pride in terms of 42 blue flags on the inland beaches, which means that, being far from being the second largest country in Europe, we are the second country in Europe which has the most blue flags on the inland beaches. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When I said, recently, in response to the CDS, that we did not expect today's formalization of the PRR to begin, I gave several examples but forgot - one of the 50 million euros of the REACH-EU ( Recovery Assistance for Cohesion and the Territories of Europe) to intervene in 150 km of rivers. And I say rivers, not rivers and rivers, because it is essentially rivers that we are talking about, the ability to use natural engineering methods, which we learned from the interventions we made on the banks, in rivers of much greater size, that you have already given some examples. One of these interventions is, of course, the Póvoa flyer. Other interventions are in rivers such as Ave, Ferreira, Nabão, Vizela or Vouga. In other words, we transform and expand into rivers of another dimension and even another social and environmental impact, this set of interventions is absolutely essential, leaving the concrete from time to time as a solution to try to contain the rivers within its margins. The CDS thinks, and has said so many times, including its former leader, that natural resources have to adapt to us, but it is precisely the opposite, that we have to adapt to natural resources. We have to realize that water is life, but it's not just for our species. If all the other species spoke a language that we could understand, they all said the same way that water is life and it is life for both them and us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u143	The Socialist Party continues to use the word. Mr Nuno Fazenda has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u144	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : Portugal has been leading the fight against climate change. Some have tried, during this first round of this debate, legitimately, to impose a distorted perception of reality. We had, in fact, a recent convention of the Left Block where the Left Block Coordinator said the following: "In the climate we do not accept that such demanding objectives will be achieved through small steps and things of nothing. Now, this is a legitimate statement, but the truth is that it does not have any adherence to reality, because facts and numbers completely refute this statement. I give some examples that are worth remembering. Portugal, as has already been said, was the first country to present a script for carbon neutrality, establishing a script for the same purpose that it is carrying out. It was also with the Portuguese Presidency that the European Climate Law was adopted. Is it something that Portugal has achieved during the Portuguese Presidency to pass the European Climate Law? Of course not. In four years, between 2015 and 2019, Portugal reduced carbon dioxide emissions by 26 %. It was from the countries of Europe that reduced them the most. Is this also a thing of nothing? Is that a small step? Of course not. Portugal is the fifth country in the European Union which produces most electricity from renewable energy: 60 % of electricity is produced from renewable energy. 10 000 jobs have been created. Is this also a small step? Of course it isn't. As regards the decarbonisation of transport, several investments have been made in the railway — from Algarve to Beira, the Mining Line — and, as has already been said, also in improving public transport in cities, which are more environmentally friendly and cheaper. Only in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, thanks to the PART, which the PSD has led, public transport has seen an increase of 75 million passengers. Is this a small step? It's not either. What has happened, yes, are right steps and with ambition and who has said it was the European Commission, considering that Portugal is one of the best countries to achieve the 2030 targets. But, of course, we are not satisfied. We know that this is a constant challenge to combating climate change and therefore the government continues to place, and well, the climate transition at the top of priorities, whether at European level or at national level. And that is where I ask the Minister two questions. First question: within the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union, what is the balance sheet that Mr Minister makes with regard to climate action? What steps and advances have been taken for Europe under Portugal's leadership in terms of climate transition? The second question had to do with the PRR, but indeed the Minister today has answered many of the questions. Today, as has already been said, the President of the European Commission gave green light to the PRR and considered Portugal an example. According to the European Commission, the Portuguese PRR, and I quote, "is a robust and ambitious plan" and Mr Minister has already shared with us not only the timetable but also the areas of climate transition within the framework of the PRR. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u145	To reply, Mr President, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u146	Mr President, Mr Nuno Fazenda, thank you very much. As you said, the second part of your question has already been answered widely and, therefore, the challenge we have here with regard to the PRR is that of implementation, because the funds available in the PRR are greatly multiplied. I give an example of the energy efficiency of buildings. It was very good the warning we launched. It was EUR 4 million for 15 months and we executed EUR 9 million in three months, but we are going from EUR 4 million, or from EUR 9 million — come on, I'm going to be optimistic — to EUR 300 million. So here is a difference of scale and many of us, which we already manage organizations, we know how important the scale is and that when scales are very different, it is really necessary to use other management methods. Therefore, what concerns me most in the PRR, I have no doubt, is that we have conditions to perform well all the money that is on the table, until we want to do it as much as possible. It does not go through our heads, to the approximately EUR 30 million that exist for the Algarve to reduce water losses, which is the government to choose the projects. Of course, we will not, of course, be the authorities, which does not mean that there is no technical discussion if the authorities request it. What I mean is that there are projects of great capillary and that will necessarily force a very strong interaction, and the interaction cannot be achieved in 10 minutes or half an hour. On the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union I cannot escape to say first of all that the great achievement was even the approval of the Climate Law in a very fruitful debate with the European Parliament. The approval of the Climate Law, which was better at the end than it was in the Council's proposal, having given a prominent role in science, has ensured that the 2040 targets will be built on the basis of that same science and from the carbon budgets that the PS proposes to Portugal itself, and from 2050 remains Europe's firm commitment to have negative emissions. But it is also of utmost importance that the European strategy for adaptation to climate change which was adopted last Thursday. It was a matter for the Portuguese Presidency to pay particular attention, or not Portugal, to the countries which in Europe suffer most from what is already the consequences of climate change, and Portugal has even made this the subject of its informal Council. It was in this Presidency that we approved the Union Strategy for Sustainable Chemicals, which we approved on 8th. the Environment Action Programme, which may seem a little relevant but is very relevant, because the European Green Deal is a project for a Commission mandate and it was essential to « tie up » the Commission's policies in addition to this time to the principles of the European Green Deal. To conclude, in energy, the approval of the building renewal wave strategy is essential both for improving the energy efficiency of buildings as well as in any country in Europe and in any locality in Portugal, to promote employment, sometimes in micro-enterprises, and to be able, in fact, to renew these buildings, and also, in such a way that we are very pleased with the approval of the revision of the Regulation for Trans-European Energy Networks, making it absolutely clear that energy transport networks in Europe will no longer be financed when this energy is from fossil sources. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u147	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the second round. The indication I received from the President of the Assembly of the Republic was that the times that were exceeded in this first round will be dropped to the second round. The gentlemen. Members who have not been able to participate in the first round because they are not present, perhaps because they are in other parliamentary work, may, in the second round, increase the times they have not used. The second round will be initiated by the CFP Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : Mr Minister said recently that we have always followed him in the tariff reduction measures. We have followed these measures even for the more than 20 years in which you voted against them. It is appropriate to say that it is worth fighting, but there are cross-cutting issues that arise even in this debate, in relation to the PART and the tariff reduction. What measures are being taken to ensure the tariff reduction in all the hanging trips in the territory, ending with the penalisation of railway users travelling between neighbouring regions? For years we have been alerting about this issue and it is important that there is indeed a concrete answer. Mr Minister, in river transport, such electric ships are delayed, as we knew, but they also bring delays to the operation. Specific question: as regards the increase in travel times and the charging operation of batteries, etc. Who assumes responsibility for delays in the operation? This is the question workers raise. With the increase in the lot of the ships of Soflusa, with the same four crew members, starting to operate four emergency gangs, I would take it that it is never necessary, but, if such a situation occurs, who will assume responsibility? As for the South Tagus Metro, long waits, Minister. By the time, after all, the start of the expansion work of the network, either to phase 2 and 3 by the Arc Ribeirinho South, or in connection with the Coast of Caparica? Mr Minister, when the workers are treated as if they were the cheapest piece of the ship or train is more than the dignity and the rights of the workers who are attacked. It is also the users and populations who suffer the consequences. When workers are confronted with unacceptable situations and prospects in collective bargaining processes — which sometimes only have the name — when those who had frozen wages years to years from 2009 to 2017 and who have now fallen by 50 % of their purchasing power in relation to the national minimum wage, claim the general increase in wages, the valuation of careers, the collective hiring and their compliance, the answer must be respect for those who work, recognizing rights and ensuring working conditions. In view of the pseudo inevitability they intend to impose, it is once again shown that the struggle is inevitable. That is why the workers are struggling today and tomorrow at the Transtejo and Soflusa, for the week, again, at the Lisbon Metropolitan and many other companies also outside their tutelage, from the South Tejo Transport to the railway sector. We want to greet the workers here and ask you about the options and guidelines of your ministry in these processes. These situations harm users and populations and would have been avoided if you respected who is indispensable for transport to work, which are workers. That is why we need to guarantee and respect their rights and increase their salaries, so that there is also better service in this area, and recruit staff, which we have been alerting for years to the need to recruit workers for these companies. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u149	The Minister for Environment and Climate Action has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u150	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, thank you very much for the questions you have asked me. They would be answered in more detail if Mr. Secretary of State of Mobility were here with us, but he even had to leave to represent the Ministry in a state action. Mr President, the question of CIM and rail and, above all, of the PART and the reduction in the price of passes depends much more on the CIM than on transport undertakings. Money is allocated to CIMs and metropolitan areas. We know the centralist perspective that the CFP has, but we also know the local power tradition that has the CFP and are, in fact, the CIMs that make this distribution and make these decisions. Mr President, with regard to river transport, I will only not give you the good news that ships are going to be diesel. That, in fact, does not bring it, the ships will even be electric. And I can't tell you if they're going to take another 1 or 2 minutes in transport, but, as I said in my initial speech, it's good—and until that's what I was talking about—that we're all prepared to make a little sacrifice for the country's environmental situation to improve, because I hope you don't get to the conclusion — I hope that this is never your conclusion, you know how much I love your opinions — to say to me: "After all, the ships aren't nothing late, unlike what you said, they are ahead of you. It would be better to wait a few more years, with diesel ships, until there came a technology with which, truly, everything was much more agile, much cheaper and much more polluting». We did it with the best possible technology of the moment, so much so that you will remember that there was an earlier competition for natural gas, now we did this for electricity and, with great pride, we know that Portugal will have the first major operation in the world of regular passenger transport. Mr President, the Southern Tejo Metro is, as you know, identified by the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, as we have requested, with some of the most priority investments for the next Community funding cycle. And don't ask me what! Certainly, better than I, the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon will know that and some of these investments will frame the next QFP ( Plurianual Financial Framework ). Mr President, on the increase in Soflusa's strategy, and I am not taking responsibility for anything, I would say to you that, as you know, the financial protection of companies is not the Ministry of the Environment, and those who have the same financial protection do not only protect the companies of the Ministry of the Environment, protect many more and obviously have a position of balance in the decisions they make. What I can tell you, Mr Member, is that I am and will always be deeply grateful for the absolutely exemplary way and for the dedication with which they worked during the blackest phases of the COVID-19 period, in which we forced companies to continue to serve and they have always set an example of unrivalled professionalism. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u151	The CFP continues to use the word, but now through Mr João Dias. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : Minister, four years ago the tragic fires of Pedrogan occurred tomorrow. Tragic fires that have brought us losses of human lives, which have brought us losses of thousands of hectares of forest, which have brought us destroyed farms and exposed the vulnerabilities of our forest. in this sense, Minister, the first question I ask you is: what is your balance sheet? The Minister who has a speech that everything is at the best of the worlds, then tell us what the balance sheet he makes, over the past four years, so that many of these vulnerabilities have worsened rather than reversed. This speech, Minister, contrasts with reality. What populations, forest associations and firefighters tell us is completely different and many of them say that very little has been done in relation to what was expected. I give you examples: the best reform, since the time of D. Dinis, announced by your predecessor in what resulted? Of course, at the end of the National Forest Defense System against Fires. We do not have it, it has been revoked and this has been one of the consequences of the PS government's policies. We have ads behind ads — ads are not missing! — meetings of the Council of Ministers following meetings of the Council of Ministers, without assessing what has been done and its results. Action is taken without assessing what has been done and this is very worrying. The result is in sight! It's just going out into the field, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, and we see that where the killing has been, there is still killing and where the fires have been at the moment, there is a lack of control in terms of what is infesting, particularly with the regeneration of the eucalyptus. As regards the problem of the forest, Mr Minister : zero! Mr. Minister doesn't say anything about the forest yield! This is not only settled by landscape, as Mr. Minister suggests, but also by wood production.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u153	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u154	I will finish, Mr. President. As for the forest slag teams, Mr Minister has also abdicated the target of the 500 teams. With regard to baldiums, the State does not set an example in the co-management it has, where the ICNF represents the State. Mr. Minister demands that the PUB (Baldius Use Plans) be implemented, but what the ICNF must do does not comply with. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u155	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you have already noticed that today we are going to be strict in time, since this is a very long session. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u156	Mr. President, Mr. João Dias, the best of the worlds is the oldest brother of tomorrow's singing. You never hear me say we were at the best of the worlds! You've never really heard!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u157	But I say!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u158	Well, you say I said and you can say whatever you want! We can even compare our blond snails, but I never said such a thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u159	They're not blondes, but just let them grow!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u160	Okay, may not be blond snails, as long as they're theirs and mine. Mr. Deputies, I never said such a thing. We do not have the slightest doubt about the world of tasks that you are about to do, but, Mr, it is a complete injustice on your part to say that we are today in the same fragile position as we were in 2017. If you go to the camp go to the field also north of the river Tejo...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u161	Still last week runs the country from north to south!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u162	...and see how wrong he was when he said what he said. Mr President, today, from the point of view of the fire control system, we are much better prepared than we were. Mr President, where was the news 15 days ago or a month ago of the air media being delayed? You haven't been anywhere and you know why? Because the air forces were all put in the right place in the day. Where did the protests of the lack of people come from to go to the watchtowers? You think that's the news that didn't come out? No, there was no news to give, because in fact, everyone was in the right place at the right time and still good that it is. Mr President, the landscape I am talking about, and I will talk about, is not a photograph, the landscape is not a bourgeois picnic, it is not a Monet painting on the riverside, the landscape is even what results from human activity in the territory, that is the landscape. And when we talk about a landscape policy, we don't talk about a photography policy, we objectively talk about...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u163	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u164	I now conclude, Mr President, thank you very much. As I said, we are speaking objectively of being able to rebuild the landscape of the mosaic that is the country's own landscape, of the time when agrosilvopastorial activity existed and that it no longer exists for various reasons, often, certainly, challenged by the PCP, but the fact is that it no longer exists and now it has to be the Administration to promote this policy. Mr. President, thank you for your tolerance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u165	We now turn to the questions of the Socialist Party, and to that end you have the floor of Mrs Joana Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u166	Mr. President, I welcome Mr. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have heard a lot here and nothing is good for the opposition. What is certain is that the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action has done a remarkable job, particularly in the area I am addressing today, which is the reduction and elimination of the use of plastics. With regard to the carbonic neutrality that has already been spoken a lot today by the Socialist Party’s bench — of the others not a word! — because there is work done in this area, it must be said that the reduction in the use of plastics has contributed, in a direct and indirect way, to carbon neutrality. There are, therefore, some questions here that are required for the Minister to clarify the honourable Members. Members, but also all Portuguese about the work being done and the delay that was, for example, in relation to Decree-Law No 76 / 2019 concerning the use of disposable plastics in the restoration and why that delay. In fact, the delay was due to the pandemic and the type of services that restaurants began to do during the pandemic... [[Protests by PSD Member Bruno Coimbra.]] Mr Bruno Coimbra, I am making my speech, asking the questions I understand to the Minister. Mr Minister, with regard to Decree-Law No 76 / 2019, I would like to know whether your postponement is really because of the pandemic and when it is planned to enter into force again. With regard to plastic, we have to look at this situation and the government once again has shown that it is active, that it is good-faith and participatory. When the Government integrates, through the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action, the Portuguese Compact for Plastics shows good faith, proactivity, the desire to change this excessive use of plastics. Therefore, Minister, congratulations to the Government for joining this body. I also wanted to ask you when you plan to make the regulation of Law No. 69 / 2018, since the pilot project has already been implemented and, by the way, very successfully. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you a brief question about the expansion of the Port metro line, because also no one wanted to talk about it and it was not by chance! It is because the work goes to the ground, it is because this government has really thought and is on the ground with this work! So, once this project is underway, I ask when, then, the start of the work, in particular the part that goes to the Trofa that, as you know, was one of the most damaged in the first phase. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u167	To reply, Mr President, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u168	Mr President, Mrs Joana Lima, I will answer only the second question you have put to him and say the following: as far as the Trofa is concerned, it is clear at the moment that the extension even further north from ISMAI (Maia Higher Institute) and then, in fact, the transformation of the old railway corridor into BRT. Moreover, this is the proposal contained in the documents of the Metropolitan Area of Porto and this is a project that, by its size, has all the conditions to be financed in the context of the next Community Support Framework. With the permission of Mr President, I would like to speak to the Secretary of State for the Environment to answer the other questions put by Mrs Joana Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u169	Of course, Minister. Thus, Mr. Secretary of State for the Environment, Inês dos Santos Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u170	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much. To date, Portugal has, in fact, achieved the Community target for recycling plastic packaging waste which remains at 22, 5 %, and we have a great challenge to meet the new target associated with recycling of these packagings which will be 50 % up to 2025. In view of this new goal, we have important actions and measures to be promoted here. I am talking about measures related to the reduction of the use of plastic packagings that are already poured, part of them, either in the laws of the Assembly of the Republic, or in the directive itself of plastics for single use. Both the directive and the laws of the Assembly of the Republic are now condensed into a single diploma to facilitate the implementation of the measures and their monitoring, which was in public consultation until 13 June and is now being analysed with the aim of continuing its legislative process as soon as possible. But obviously, we didn't stop! We have not stopped in the framework of the fundamental support of the pilot project of incentive to packaging which has so far had quite significant success and which will undoubtedly give us very important data to support the regulation that is necessary to make in terms of the deposit system. In fact, what needs to be understood is that, with regard to this system, there is complexity here, associated with the realization of it which cannot be ignored. We have implications for producers, importers, packaging waste management entities, urban waste management systems and also implications for citizens. The machines there are not enough, there is a whole logistics network behind the management of this system, deposit values, types of materials, impacts on systems that need to be considered in the design of the regulation so that the regulation is as successful as possible. Therefore, the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action is promoting not only the dissemination of the study to interest groups, but also the collection of opinions from these various interest groups, in order to build a regulation that actually serves to meet the goals and deliver the appreciation that is necessary to the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u171	Mr. José Manuel Carpinteira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u172	Mr. President, I welcome Mr. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Mr Minister, in the National Strategy for Conservation of Nature and Biodiversity for 2030, approved in 2018, it is assumed that natural heritage is a strategic asset of the country and that biodiversity and nature conservation are an opportunity for certain territories, particularly in the context of adaptation to climate change, conservation and exploitation of ecosystems and restoration of territory and landscape. in this context, protected areas are today seen as strategic assets of the territory in which the presence of human activities is essential to maintain the values that characterize them. In this regard, the Government's action has focused on the development of active policies of nature conservation, in particular by strengthening surveillance in protected areas, promoting the integration of biodiversity-related matters, into the other policies and sectors of activity, implementing active policies for the participatory and collaborative management of protected areas, placing on a model of proximity management with municipalities, among other entities, and intervening in the enhancement of the territory and habitat. One of the new co-management committees refers to our Peneda-Gerês National Park, which was the first protected area created in Portugal, in 1971, being the only one with the status of national park internationally recognized with this classification. In 2016, a development plan for the Peneda-Gerês National Park was approved with an investment of more than EUR 8 million involving the restoration of the burned areas, the development of structural prevention actions, the strengthening of mobile communications and human resources. For us, the Peneda-Gerês National Park is a jewel that we have an obligation to preserve and value. in this context, I ask Mr. Minister what balance is possible to make of the plan approved in 2016 and even if the investments in the National Park of Peneda-Gerês are to continue. Another issue concerns the co-management model already implemented in some protected areas. I wonder if it is possible to make an assessment of how it works. Mr Minister, in conclusion, we would like to know whether the Government is still planning to increase the number of nature vigilantes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u173	To reply by the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for the Conservation of the Nature of Forests and the Planning of the Territory will use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u174	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Member, indeed, the investment that has been made in the National Park of Peneda-Gerês should pride us all. As I said, it is more than 8 million euros of investment in ecosystem restoration and rehabilitation and it is 49 men and a woman who are now, on a full-time basis, residents of that territory, being public servants for a year. This is co-management work that has been a cause for pride. Not long ago, I had the opportunity to hold a meeting with all the camera presidents who run the Peneda-Gerês National Park and was able to note the pride that they feel in participating in the management of that park, which had never been provided to them. Despite some hesitations or opposing opinions, there is no doubt that co-management has been a path that we are obviously consolidating, but it is a path that local communities recognize as the path to the future. Obviously, the ICNF continues, as it could not fail to be, with all its intact valences, so let us say, and the monitoring of the natural values that led to the classification of these protected areas continues to be the exclusive responsibility of the ICNF. I must say that an increase of more than half a million euros has been made in order to improve the conditions for visiting the National Park of Peneda-Gerês. It is also an ongoing investment, in addition to the five pilot projects that are also underway in the amount of EUR 5 million and that will be implemented in the protected areas we have in the country. In fact, the EUR 33 million that are being invested in protected areas is already a very significant value, on the contrary, as we all know, of what has been done in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u175	The Socialist Party continues to speak, but this time by the voice of Mr Luís Graça. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u176	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, about 59 % of the country's energy, as it has been said, comes from renewable sources. Within this mix of renewable energy quotas, there is particular emphasis on wind energy, with 25 %. On the other hand, in contrast, solar energy appears only 3 to 4 % of the total renewable energy produced. In order to achieve the goals that we are committed to internationally, and which have already been talked about several times today, it is important to increase the country's capacity in the production of renewable energy, particularly solar energy, for which we are at a later stage. And we have this opportunity: first, because we enjoy the sun 300 days a year, discounting the Algarve, which enjoys the sun 365 days a year; then, because the PRR brings us the financial reinforcement to help us, of course, in the energy efficiency of the building. We have potential, we have need and, of course, impacts. There are always impacts on the measures we take. The first impact seems to us to be at the rate. Since we have poor solar production, we compensate for this lack of gas production. By paying the gas CO2 rate, this is reflected in the rate that the Portuguese pay, and which Mr Minister has already referred to here, a total of EUR 35 million. But it also has visual impacts. If solar parks have a large size, they have a visual impact on the territory; if they have a smaller dimension, they have the impact of the lines that will go through that same territory. In recent times, the fear of associations and populations has increased over the impact of solar power capture, solar power parks. It is true that the government does not choose the sites, choose the intersection sites, and it is true that the environmental impact assessment legislation that exists guarantees the citizens that all these projects will be measured by their impacts, and some will be mitigated and others blocked. So, given the solar energy that the country needs, what does this represent in terms of soil waterproofing, with this type of energy production structures? In other words, with regard to what the Government foresees that the country needs for solar energy, including not only what is foreseen in the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan but also what is planned for hydrogen production, what does it all represent in terms of the country's surface? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u177	To reply, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Energy has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u178	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your question. Portugal has indeed — and does not happen to all countries — enormous energy wealth, and therefore we are of the most competitive countries in Europe and the world in the production of solar energy. It's a wealth we should take advantage of. Each postponement of a solar energy project in Portugal means that the country consumes more gas. The biggest allies of fossil power producers are all those who, due to misinformation or political opportunism, fiercely combat the installation of solar panels in Portugal. It is good to understand this: every day we install a solar energy project in Portugal is another day when we burn gas in Portugal. Solar power auctions were designed exactly for consumers to appropriate most of the project installation gains. For example, if all the first and second auction projects had been in operation since 1 January, we would have saved almost EUR 80 million in electricity tariffs only this year. It's a lot of money! Portugal has even an environmental advantage not only of exploiting solar production, as an economic one, which translates into the pocket of every consumer of electricity, families and businesses. Therefore, it is a factor of competitiveness of the country's economy. I've heard a lot of people say we should drill the country with panels. If we meet the goals of the PNEC, with the installation of centralized projects and if we add 5 more GW for hydrogen, giving wide strike, we are talking of 18 000 ha in the country—and 18 000 ha represent 0, 2 % of the territory of mainland Portugal. I'll repeat: 0, 2 %! We can talk about a lot of things and use a lot of adjectives and expressions, but there's an adjective that we can't use that is "forging the country with panels", because that is simply not going to happen. Should all projects be approved? Of course not! That is why there are environmental impact assessments. It is in the environmental impact assessment that one perceives whether the impacts are mitigable or not, and there will certainly be very controversial projects that will be approved and others that may not, at all, be controversial and that will fall. It is not up to the Government, either to this or to any one, to define in advance what approved or not approved projects are; it is up to the Government to create conditions for them to be properly assessed. We've heard a lot about photovoltaic panels that doesn't make any sense. They say photovoltaic panels cause local warming! Now, radiation is all absorbed, so the photovoltaic panels if there is something that does not cause it is global heat and heating. They also say that if there are panels in certain territories there is nothing else. It's fake! There are several projects in operation in Portugal and we even know that a gentleman, who had his inheritance, saw his number of sheep increase because the grass improved due to the panels that can create shadows.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u179	Would you like to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u180	If the projects are well designed, if the environmental assessment is appropriate, yes, it is entirely possible to reconcile large-scale projects with the defense of biodiversity and the defense of nature. In conclusion, I would like to say that the country places on decentralized production of small, medium and large size. The country needs all this kind of production! It is an illusion to think that we can dispense large parks and it is an even greater illusion to think that the multiplication of small parks has a smaller environmental impact than the large parks, because the honourable Member pointed out: the multiplication of lines is often, in fact, the greatest environmental impact of projects. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u181	We now turn to PSD issues. Mr. Hugo Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister, even I was sorry for your insult to the Left Block, because the Left Block should have had the opportunity at first to talk about energy prices. It is that the year began tearing the garments, asking the Minister to break contracts and asking Parliament to cancel and revoke Decree-Law No. 35/2013, when he is today protecting consumers from paying market prices. Probably, 2021 will be marked as the year in which electricity prices in MIBEL (Iberian Electricity Market) were the most expensive. This follows, Mr Minister, and will certainly agree with me on something called 'climate policy'. So carbon prices are being reflected, yes, in the energy price. And we only have one thing to do to reverse that: the wager in renewable energy. Eurostat and DGEG figures ( Directorate-General for Energy and Geology) say that the incorporation of renewable energy into final energy consumption in 2015 was 30, 5 % and in 2019 was 30, 6 %. Imagine, Mr. Minister, that Mr. Hugo Pires, or the Socialist Party, had made a chart illustrating this. It would be a graph of about 30, 5 % and 30, 6 %. The speaker displayed a chart. This graph could have been made by PS or even by arrive. In fact, if it had been done by Mr Nuno Fazenda, 30 %, 6 % would have gone up to 60 %, certainly and would have been wrong! The correct chart will be this, Minister. The speaker displayed another chart. in this chart, which I will then hand over to Mr Hugo Pires, who says that nothing has been done, we can see evolution and stagnation. Mr Minister, at a time when you never wanted to invest so much in renewable energy, the government is not presenting the ability to change something that is fundamental. There is a huge labyrinth in the licensing of projects of electro-production centres between DGEG, APA, ICNF, CCDR, municipal chambers. At the beginning of the year, it was promised that the DGEG would have more people, which would pass to the public school, but not enough. There is no innovation in the whole process, there is no simplification of the process, there is no single counter for investors, there is no investment. It's private investment, actually. It is the government's own document, the PNEC, which says that 25 billion private investment is estimated here. There is no investment that resists this! The Secretary of State, however, resigned himself to making energy policy: he passed everything he had on the table and left it for DGEG. In the light of this and several warnings that the PSD has left here, of the excessive power given to the National Energy Network to make energy policy, of the constraints that are in sight of everyone in the licensing, of the lack of timely response of the entities under its protection, I would like to ask whether you are in a position to present a plan to reform all this, because, if the investment is not made here, it will be done here near, even here, and we will be soon buying energy from Spain. So the news appears, but the numbers will cost a lot to show up, if they continue. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u183	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u184	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although PSD does not like it, Portugal is now considered by everyone, starting with investors, as one of the best destinations for investment in renewables in all areas. To be very honest, I have no idea what you are talking about when you refer to the flight of investors, because exactly the opposite is happening. If there is an area where Portugal does not have to look for a silver bullet—such as PSD, CDS and, now, the Liberal Initiative so much like—to attract new investments is this. We've got them here, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u185	You've got news! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u186	And what we need is to manage and plan these investments. Mr. Deputies, all renewable energy projects that came into operation during the PSD/CDS government came from the PS government. [[PSD protests.]] There was no renewable energy project inaugurated during the PS government coming from the VV government. For example, because you stopped, stopped or even destroyed all the renewables policy that was in progress in our country. The energy folder moved to the environment folder in 2018. The renewable energy projects take on average two, three or more years to license. We do not know how much longer we will be in the government, Mr President, but I assure you that whoever follows us, whether a PS government or another, will inaugurate many projects of the entire responsibility of this government and this government team. Mr. Deputies, no one has signed any cross! If there is anything that this government and this team of the Ministry of the Environment have done is energy policy. You know why? You gave us licenses and we made auctions. And why? Because the injection points are the active of the most valuable and scarce energy system. Therefore, the best way to ensure that the main beneficiaries of renewable projects in Portugal are consumers is to make auctions, and that is what we did. These projects are now already under construction and others in the final phase of licensing. But there is one thing you can be sure of, Mr President: the entry into operation of each project of the auction we have drawn — we have drawn! — it will ensure enormous savings for consumers for the reasons I said, much more than the decree-law which you have mentioned. It is that the decree-law that Mr. Deputy mentioned had prices from 74 € per MWh to 94 € per MWh. Do you know what happened to this decree? We have lowered the rates of this decree-law and will no longer be 74 € per MWh, but 66 € per MWh. And so, yes, with our review measure of this decree-law, now, yes, the Portuguese will have savings. at this time, Mr. Member, the auctions we have made, the reduction of the rates of this decree law, the guarantee that projects outside the auction are all costed by investors who also pay the network are the best guarantee that electricity consumers may have lower prices in the coming years. And I also tell you, Mr President, and I am right here: the idea of revoking Decree-Law No 35/2013 of 28 February, proposed by the Block on the Left, would have been a disaster, not exactly for the reasons that you refer to, but for arguments used by almost all Members here in the committees of inquiry. In fact, for years the so-called wind rents were understood as a cost; today, as we have nearly 6000 MW of secured wind prices that are going to significantly lower today, said wind prices are the best guarantee of insurance against rising electricity prices. When carbon rises, it rises in all European countries — in Poland, Portugal, Spain, France, all — and in all countries the price of electricity rises. But in the country where there is a second effect, which is the overcost of PRE (Production in Special Regime), the so-called wind rents will disappear practically in 2022 and will have the effect contrary to what they have had so far, and will lower the costs of electricity. Therefore, Portugal, in the governments of the Socialist Party, having invested as it has invested in wind farms, today guarantees that the generality of European countries does not have: the protection for families and businesses of rising unbridled prices of electricity which at present is a European phenomenon. However, Portugal, unlike other countries, by measures of the Socialist Party, by the energy policy of the Socialist Party, has a insurance that is worth a lot of money for consumers and Portuguese families. in this policy, Mr President, I have never heard you praise solar auctions, but it would be good to tell you that there is no better insurance and guarantee of appropriation of solar revenues than the auctions we have made. And I've never heard of that. But regardless of what you say, honourable Member, when each of these parks comes into operation, all Portuguese, businesses and families, when they look at their energy tariff, will know to whom the price of electricity should fall. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u187	The PSD Parliamentary Group continues to use the floor this time by the voice of Mr Hugo Patrício Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u188	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State : Mr. Minister, first of all let me tell you that I was sad because I thought your favorite film would be The Canticle Patio. Mr. Minister, the energy transition, which the government calls for, devalues its environmental and social impacts. at the level of territorial management instruments, and even regional planning, has an absolute inertia. We see only projects, of various types, that arise scattered across the territory as though they were mushrooms. For example, we need solar power stations to decarbonise our economy, yes. But we must be able to avoid conflicts of land use, protect biodiversity and ensure that the rapid expansion of infrastructures does not affect local populations. This trend has manifested itself so quickly — see! — that neither the revision of the PNPOT was sufficiently prospective to guard it! It has now been published and is already out of date, facing challenges that should anticipate! According to the PNEC, in 2030, we will have 9 GW power installed, which will correspond to approximately 10 000 hectares of area occupied in national territory, in the background, the equivalent of the Lisbon municipality covered by solar panels, according to calculations made by Zero. Portugal is going to shine... or rather, to lure, seen of space! Mr Minister, how are we going to take care of this territorial challenge? More specifically, how can the PDMs and PROTs (regional spatial planning plans) deal with this challenge? I also ask what is the situation at the level of the review of the PROTs. How are the processes in each region right now? Stop waiting for you to make the sun? What about the POC(coastal edge programs)? A little while ago, you spoke here about the POCs. And it is not only the Coastal Orle Program Way-Spin ( POC-EC), it is also the Spicel-Odecise ( POC-EO ), the Odecise-Vylamoura ( POC-OV ), the POC Vilamoura-Vila Real de Santo António ( POC-VVRSA ). It should be six, but only two are ready. How is this delay explained in the planning of the territory, the coast? Moreover, on the beach of Ourigo, has the Minister already promoted any inquiry into this matter? The review of PNPOT was published on 5 September 2019. It was stipulated that, from two to two years, the Reot State Planning Report (REOT) would be published as the main instrument of monitoring and evaluation. Mr. Minister, it's been almost two years. Is this report being made? Will it be presented within the deadline? Or is it just another one, between so many reports and late laws? Really, the Ministry of the Environment does just the name of the Century Street — everything takes centuries for these bands! Mr. Minister, one more question: the Faroese Alentejo. Yes, this is the reality, as a result of this government's lack of planning. in this territory, we have a generalization of conflicts associated with land use. Take it easy: farmers are now the bad guys on the tape, but the Ministries of the Environment, Agriculture and Social Security were sleeping in shape! In conclusion, I want to say that both the PSD and PS have approved draft resolutions on this matter, but so far the government has done nothing. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u189	To reply, Mr. Minister for Environment and Climate Action, João Pedro Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President, for allowing me to answer, but I do not see what answer I shall give, because no question has been asked either. I'm glad Zero's doing the math, Mr Deputies, because if it was the PSD doing it, it could be even worse. Mr PNEC is clear when he speaks in the 9 GW. Before they urgently request a strategic environmental assessment to place a solar panel, I just mean that the PNEC has made a strategic environmental assessment, it is already done. In fact, there was a poet, who was the poet Machado, who spoke of binding the plow to a star, but I think he never got there. And objectively, I don't think solar panels are going to stay in the ether, they're going to stay on the floor, and it's already been taken into account: 0, 2 % of the country's territory. Each project, when having more than one dimension, must have an environmental impact assessment. I don't really know what's bothering you here. I know there are movements that say "no more a line of high tension, because that brings us nothing! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But it brings at least one little thing: it is called electricity, the light, which is needed many people, and the PSD, which is needed twice. And objectively, the whole construction of these essential structures for decarbonization is, in fact, done with all environmental care, in the context of licensing, which is done within our own Ministry. Mr President, for your information on an objective question you have asked, the Odexe Spokesman will go to public consultation next month. Regarding the beach of Ourigo, this is an unexplained situation. And if I take for myself the pains of the Ministry of the Environment, assuming them very clearly, does not mean that I think that the Ministry of the Environment is in no way more responsible than the City Hall of Porto or the APDL ( Administration of the ports of Douro and Legions ). With regard to the idea that, because there is a positive opinion, it is binding and obliged to make the only positive opinions they require to do are the judgments of the courts. Therefore, it is obvious that the City Hall of Porto had nothing to license that beach support if it was against. I assume my responsibilities. It is unacceptable for that to be built. I didn't participate, as you can imagine, in any of your licensing process. I will never be able to explain to myself how APA gave a negative opinion, gave a positive opinion and then gave a negative opinion. Ask me if there's any investigation. Yes, Mr President, there are two investigations to be carried out: one from the IGAMAOT (General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Land Planning) which is obviously spontaneous, in the sense that it is from the initiative of the General Inspection itself, and another from the internal audit of the Portuguese Environment Agency. Obviously, this situation has to be very well explained to everyone. It's a face to the construction of Ourigo's bar, that way, on that beach, in that place. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u191	The PSD Parliamentary Group is still speaking, this time, by the voice of Mr Rui Cristina.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u192	Mr President, Secretary of State João Galamba, I would like to note here that the word "forge" is not an adjective, but a verb. [[PSD applause.]] As we move on, Mr Minister of the Environment, the summer is coming, in the Algarve we seek to resume economic activity, but we continue with a number of environmental problems that could have already been resolved on our coast, if there was a planning in condition in your Ministry. For barlavent, we have the adoration of the Alvor River, which continues to resolve. For subvent, we have the problem of rocking the Tavira River, that is, the bar, which affects the activity and safety of fishermen, but also conditions the nautical-touristic activities. The successive delays of the dredgings and the lack of more structural and systematic action led the Socialist Party to present, recently, a draft resolution proposing the creation of a multi-annual plan of dredgings. It's kind of a bunch of ears from the parliamentary group of your own party, if you haven't noticed yet. I therefore ask you, Minister, what plans are there, what investments will be made in dynamic coastal management, including dredgings. We also continue to await the regulation of the measures recommended in the Algarve water management plan. I still don't understand what is being done by your Ministry and I ask you if you can explain it to me, because it seems to me that we are just waiting for the pharaonic solution of decentralization. Yes, we have a Ministry of the Environment which only desires megalomanic, emblematic projects that are excellent for « torturing money», but which leave incomes to pay to consumers and have strong impacts on natural resources. What I want to tell you is that the environment is the greatest wealth in the Algarve region,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u193	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u194	...but little has been done to ensure its sustainability. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u195	To reply, Mr President, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u196	Mr President, honourable Member, 'forging' is a sad metaphor that you see. For example, they use to classify everything that is intended and concrete projects to do something that PSD abhors, which is the decarbonization of society. Mr. Member, in our Ministry we do a lot of things, but we don't drag bars in the Algarve, it's not really pointing at me. Ex.a has not yet grasped well as is the organic of the Government and its services. In fact, this is not really with us, you have been mistaken in the interlocutor. I know very well what we did in Alvor, I know very well how much sand we removed from the Alvor River and how we put on the beaches and how we strengthened the beaches, namely the Three Brothers and the Alvor beach. That is something that, after all, does not worry you about anything and just want to do dredgings, which will certainly be very fair, but it is not with us that they have to be done. Mr Rui Cristina, I am hoping that you will have a gesture, because it is already the third time that I hear about the water efficiency plan of the Algarve and I believe that you must have the hombrety, after saying what you said, to try at least to make a recommendation to the Government in this House that the EUR 200 million allocated to the RPP for the water efficiency of Algarve should not be approved. You really have to do that in order to be consistent with what you've been saying.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u197	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u198	Be able to reject 200 million euros of investment for the Algarve, provided for in the PRR, which are not intended for any other region of the country, as you do! Is that what you're talking about? Mr President, be it consistent — the algae will evaluate them, you and your party — and say, "We do not want this investment in the Algarve! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Protests Rui Cristina.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u199	Let's, now, move to the Left Block. Mr. Nelson Peralta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u200	Mr President, Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, I want to get back the debate on the mine law, to start with what was clear. It was clear what the Left Block wants to do: it wants to change the law to ban new mines in protected areas, to introduce a 10- to 20-year moratorium on mining in maritime space and to strengthen public participation mechanisms. This was clear. It was also clear that this action of the Left Block, the parliamentary assessment, does not prevent the law from being in force. But Mr Minister, this week, certainly misinformed or, at least, ignoring legal procedures, said that this would delay the entry into force of the law — it is false! But the Minister's words were very, very important, because he said that this possible delay in the entry into force of the law would mean that it was a favour, that it was to protect the archers and the guards. Well, your Ministry delayed the entry into force of this law in six years, so the only logical conclusion of its own words is that the Ministry of the Environment, for six years, has been protecting the guards in Portugal. In fact, the Left Block and the environmentalists have always asked for a green law, they have not asked for this law 'green to the mines'. I would also like to ask a specific question about a part which was not clear in the debate. The Minister scandalized himself, he was indignant when the Left Block said that this law opens the door to new mines in protected areas. Well, then, it is very simple: if you think it is not to open the door to new mines in protected areas, if you think protected areas should be protected, then support the proposal of the Left Block, which will be presented in Parliament, to withdraw the possibility of new mining in protected areas. What Mr Minister cannot do is get here, indignant, saying « look, in the Left Block, they are saying that this opens the door to mining! "But then, when there are consequences, I already want the door opened in the law. So the first concrete question is: are we going to have new mines in protected areas or not? Does the government support the amendment to the law to ensure that there are no new mines in protected areas? I want to keep talking about protected areas, but on another issue. He said now that the government is very proud of co-management of protected areas and the Socialist Party too, but they have not said what this is about co-management of protected areas. Mr. Minister even says that this time of having a chief, a director, by protected area is over. No, on the contrary, what the law provides is that now there is a camera president who becomes the head of the protected area. That's the concept. But there's worse! I repeat, there's worse! [[Protests by the Minister for Environment and Climate Action.]] You don't need to be nervous. I understand that the Minister of the Environment, whose country is accused, by the European Environment Agency, of having the most degraded protected areas in all the countries of Europe, is nervous, but I think I can finish my speech. The Minister of the Environment does not need to be concerned about my intervention. Turning back to the issue of co-management of protected areas, what is really going to be this? Oh, my God! It's at Portaria No. 67 / 2021. The government delivered co-management of protected areas to municipal chambers and identified a role of criteria for the management of municipal chambers. Is nature's protection there? Oh, my God! No, no, no. Is there the protection of biodiversity? Oh, my God! No, no, no. Are you there to tear up and destroy invasive species? Oh, my God! No, no, no. Are there any indicators on nature? Absolutely zero. What's there? Oh, my God! Number of visitors. It is there that you need to expand the number of visitors, entrance doors, leisure and visiting infrastructures, new products. In other words, what the government says to the municipal chambers is the following: "Take protected areas there, but don't worry about the environment, nor about protected areas, because it's important to transform protected areas into business, it's to have more visitors. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is not beyond the main criticism of the Left Block about this process: is the government making decentralization of competences and giving them to the municipal chambers for what? Oh, my God! In order for the Central State to de-responsibility and tell the municipal chambers: "Now, they have money to manage, because, a few years from now, the State Budget begins to close the tap to protected areas. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is because of this kind of conduct that we have the country with the worst protected areas of the European Union, unfortunately. We challenge the government to end co-management, which is the competence of the central State. But if you want to keep it, even against the will of the Block, we challenge it to make a new portarium, with criteria for conservation of nature. It is unbelievable that we have protected areas whose only criterion is the number of visitors, new products and sales. Don't! Nature needs to be protected and your government is failing in a round manner. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u201	In reply, Mr Minister for the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u202	Mr President, Mr. Nelson Peralta, the truth is that it causes you to be careful. At the very least, it causes you to be careful because, in fact, when you repeat ad nausea a question for which you know the answer perfectly, I can only tell you that the truth really causes you a pruritus. You know perfectly well that, with co-management, the ICNF has not lost any competence. You know perfectly well — nor do you need me to repeat it again — it was the most missing thing! — which are the powers of the management committee and knows perfectly well that the powers of conservation of nature, strictly understood, remain in the ICNF. Therefore, Mr President, because I already know you, I have even the feeling that, if that would have what you are carrying, you would now say that you would be making a much greater criticism than you are doing, saying that it was unacceptable that this kind of competence would be in that way. I can't say otherwise: the truth causes you to be careful. Mr Member, do not cease to go to the Somincor mine ( Neves Corvo Mining Society ). It's really a challenge. Listen, I even offer to pay for the bus ticket. [[Mr. BE Nelson Peralta's laughs.]] It is really worth it to you to go to Somincor's mine and try to have, at the exit, the top of saying: "It is unbelievable that this mine is in a place of the Natura 2000 Network." On top of that, I have nothing else to say. I've seen that the Left Block is very uncomfortable when it says things that are not true and that everyone is making a great effort to protect your leader. It looks good on you, but in fact, she said a lot of things that were not true last Sunday. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u203	Mr. Nelson Peralta, continues to use the floor to ask questions to Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u204	Mr President, Minister, in answering the question I asked you, whether or not we are going to have new mines in protected areas, the Minister tells us: "You are going to visit a mine in a protected area, which is so good! Do not keep on seeking. ” So, I think it's very clear...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u205	It's really very clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u206	... what Mr. Minister is saying: he wants mines in protected areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u207	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u208	Well, Mr. Minister invited me to go visit this one and I will invite you to visit one here very close, on the other side of the Tejo, in the Serra da Arrábida, to see if you think that these rocks are in fact a very good thing in protected areas. What we see from the government is that it uses the word 'truth', but then it says that the law does not open the door to mining and that mining in protected areas is very good. Let's decide! I want to ask you another question about waste. The Left Block asked a specific question about the waste that is imported for incineration and recovery, and the Minister, in his style, answered about waste that goes to land. It has nothing to do with it. There is a set of factory units in Portugal, of course, the cement plant in Alhandra, which wants to change its operation to start burning waste, clearly saying it is for import: it wants to import waste to burn. What we are asking — and the environmental licence is being reassessed — is whether the Government considers that the manufacturing units in Portugal, in particular the large pollutants, should be able to change their operating arrangements to, in practice, import waste, some of them even dangerous, to burn in Portugal. Is the question left: do you or do you not authorize this change of factory units in Portugal? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u209	The Minister for the Environment has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u210	Mr President, Mr. Nelson Peralta, protection of protected areas is even one of our greatest designs. What I wanted to show a member of the Left Block — perhaps because I am a credul! — is that the world is not black and white. [[Mr. BE Nelson Peralta's laughs.]] There are, in fact, more colors. Among other things, they taught me, for example, that humility is a virtue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u211	You didn't learn!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u212	That one went wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u213	I know that not everyone has learned the same thing. But, Mr. Nelson Peralta, what I wanted to say to you is that objectively there is a mine that is in a site of the Natura 2000 Network, which is a mine that I can afford, not because I am in a site of the Natura 2000 Network, as it is evident, to give as the best example of a mine to function well, from the point of view of environmental respect. Mr President, increasing TGR is a good way to reduce the import of waste.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u214	She's grown up!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u215	It is even a good way to reduce the import of waste. V. Exa is against and, being against, has finally managed to take a good part of her ladyship forward. So it is democracy, therefore, that I accept this with humility and great naturality. Mr President, for years and years now, the CoR (waste-derived fuel) has been burned throughout the cementeries in this country, replacing fossil fuels. I know that this is something that always shocks you in concrete and that it is always a bore, because fuel oil for you is always better, but let me tell you that it is also important. I don't even know what V Exa is talking about, when she asks what she asks.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u216	Don't read the news!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u217	Let's move on to the CDS-PP. Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u218	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, during this debate, I have listened carefully, Mr Minister, your speeches in a humorous manner — let us classify them as such, perhaps more constructive. I heard, above all, his initial statement, in which he spoke of several matters in which his ministry was a recordist and of several things he had achieved. However, since this model of sectoral debates is still relatively new, we are reminded to ask you a question on a subject in which your Ministry is indeed a recordist, since your Ministry is one of the recordholders of tax collection. I explain why the question: a study, commissioned by the CIP (Commercial Confederation of Portugal), on the tax burden and, above all, on the parafiscal burden in Portugal, has been published for some time. In addition to other things that will be most relevant to Budget and Finance, of the 4300 fees found—it was not an exhaustive study, it was only 24 entities, but found 4300 fees —, 2900 were in the central administration and the tax and tax champion body was the Portuguese Environment Agency that charged 600 different rates. At the time, several things were said and, in addition to the amount of fees, there was also talk about the complexity and lack of transparency, saying that it was evident that some entities were unaware of the rates charged by themselves. The Minister of the Environment was then questioned on this matter and said, on the charges of his Ministry, that he could not in fact say exactly if there were, or not, that number of fees. Therefore, I would like to ask you whether at the moment, having spent a lot of time, we can confirm how many fees exist in your Ministry and it is confirmed that the Portuguese Environment Agency charges more than 600 fees. I would also like to ask you about this: you also pointed out at the time that, in any case, since you are in government, no fee has been created for the Portuguese Environment Agency. Now, after a very quick research I did in the Diário da República, Minister, I would like to ask you whether there is a fee relating to the establishment registration in the fluorinated gas form provided for in Ordinance No 92 / 2020 of 15 April, which establishes the rates to be charged to operators subject to registration on the electronic platform in compliance with a 2017 decree. Question whether this fee was created, which is charged by APA, and whether it also created the fee to be paid by the applicants of the services provided by APA, in the exercise of the powers provided for in Decree-Law No 108 / 2018 of 3 December, which was also created in the time of its government. Therefore, I would like to ask you if you keep this claim that you did not strictly create any fee in APA during this government. Finally, I would like to make the following clear to you, Minister: it is clear that there have to be rules to preserve the environment. This is obvious, otherwise we get into chaos. But the lack of transparency and the profusion of bureaucracy not only facilitate the application of rules and the preservation of the environment, as they are fertile ground for all kinds of suspicions — as it has been seen during this debate — in which I do not enter. Therefore, the challenge that Mr Minister left you was that we could have greater simplicity and greater transparency, because at the same time I think that this would lead to greater preservation of the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u219	You have the floor to answer, Mr Environment Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u220	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, yes, I am absolutely in a position to say how many fees are charged by the Portuguese Environment Agency. They're seven, I repeat, seven. With regard to the said 600 rates they talked about — and indeed, at the time, I did not know, when I was confronted with the number — are seven and even the accounts, which I still have time: the TRH, water resource rate; the TGR, waste management rate; the TAU, the single environmental rate — should have left it to the end! — the noise rate; the radiological protection rate; the chemical protection rate and the protection rate of genetically modified organisms. That's why they're seven. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u221	The CDS still has an intervention time of 35 seconds and Mr Pedro Mário Soares is registered for a telegraphic intervention. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u222	Mr. Soares, no, Mr. President! It's Morais Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u223	Pedro Morais Soares. If I was wrong, I'm sorry, but I don't know exactly what I said anymore. [[Laughing.]] Mr. Pedro Morais Soares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u224	Mr President, Mr Minister, I just wanted to leave two questions and one of them concerns the pollution of rivers, Mr Minister, in particular the Tejo, Sado, Lis, Nabão and Dan. It was announced that an intelligent water resource platform would be placed until March. Often — every day — we are confronted with reports of the pollution of these same rivers. to question the investments made to combat pollution in rivers and the strengthening of monitoring and monitoring of river waters, which is essential for the environment. Another question is about the ETAR (Residual Water Treatment Station ) of the Guide, which, as you know, Minister, is a waste water treatment station built in 1994 to respond to four municipalities, and on the discharge of the effluent in the full Atlantic Ocean, 3 km from our coast. This urban effluent undergoes preliminary treatment in the ESTAR of the Guide. The treatment includes only a removal of solids exceeding 3 mm and a drainage before the launch of the effluent undersea emissary of the Guide, 40 m deep and, as I said, 3 km from the coast. We are facing a complex problem in a sub-dimensional system in which the government has responsibilities. Missing support from the Government for Atlantic Teas, S.A. and emergency discharges are made when the system is overloaded.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u225	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u226	I conclude, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, this tragic situation affects water quality, the marine environment, affects the fishing community, sports tourism. And we are facing a serious environmental liability at the gates of Lisbon, a public health problem for which the Government has to take urgent action and allocate funds for its resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u227	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u228	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no comparison between what is today the exercise of water resources monitoring and what was when we took up functions. We found a broken, stopped, destructed network. And even, realizing, if you want, pulling the imagination,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u229	I'm asking questions from now on, not from the past!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u230	... that for a time, in this country, there was a great difficulty in having money, for example, to make investments, it is very difficult to believe that your monitoring network has been completely destroyed. Today, the water resource management system is, in fact, absolutely standing. There are things that one minister only realizes — finally, at least one normal person like me, and that does not intend to be more than that — when faced with concrete problems. And a very concrete problem was even the pollution of the Tagus in its time. I know well about the more than 30 000 analyses that were made after that and the two samplers that exist today to carry out continuous measurements and, above all, the total lack of information before that day. from the point of view of the maintenance of water resources, this is a matter that concerns me. Let us rest that, in fact, what we have done is done well, and we will continue to do well. Mr President, the STAR of the Guide is in fact an old STAR of the time in which it was not even more than a grading, and also in time, the Costa do Estoril sanitation system was a project of great relevance and great size in Portugal and which contributed to greatly improving the quality of the waters of the Costa do Estoril beaches. over time, this whole system has been improved. Having no doubt that the STAR of the Guide must make a big leap from the point of view of its quality of operation, this does not mean that all parameters are not being met and that Portugal has not — which you have never seen —...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u231	Swallow to the side and don't solve the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u232	As I said, this does not invalidate that Portugal has 372 blue flags, of which 42 are inside. Mr President, seawater is not improving, which is improving is the treatment of sewage on land, and that is why water quality in Portugal is excellent. I will not mention, unlike the PSD, any environmental association by name, but the news I have also seen today in the newspapers speak on the « golden beaches» or « golden beaches» and say that Portugal has never had as many « golden beaches» as it has today. And the classification isn't mine, it's those that the PSD quotes more often. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u233	Mr Nelson Silva, from the NAP, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, since the PS Member did not want to make this recognition, I accept the tacit thanks she made to the NAP for the matter relating to plastics and microplastics. Mr Minister, the commitment to renewable energy is fundamental to the country, either by decarbonisation or by reducing energy dependence, and so far I believe that we are all in agreement. There are, however, two aspects in which we disagree: first, the environmental impacts ; second, the social options of the bet on renewable energies pursued by this government. Mr. Minister bets on major solar power stations. We say that the only way to minimize the environmental impacts of solar energy is to invest in small solar power plants and especially in micro-production and energy communities. And we also say that between benefiting from the market conditions of EDP and the opportunities that people can withdraw with solar and wind power production we prefer, unlike the government, to benefit people. Mr Minister, when do you intend to review the legislation and tariff conditions so that people and energy communities can sell energy to the network under advantageous conditions? When is it going to solve the problem of the obstacles that REN, which, coincidentally, has the same shareholder as EDP, has been putting in relation to the network injection counters, according to the various complaints we have received? And how about, Mr Minister, solving the problem of energy poverty in our country, allowing micro-productions to sell energy to their neighbours, their municipality, with highly affordable and regulated prices? Technically, nothing prevents him. Does this political option not have the only purpose of maintaining the monopolising dominance of the energy market in Portugal? And in the various interventions of Secretary of State João Galamba we have not heard a single word about strengthening the electricity grid to support both production and new consumption, nor have we heard anything about the fact that we have so much energy wealth and, however, terms of the most expensive electricity in Europe. It is that, contrary to what you said, it is not with the current buying prices that we will benefit people. Why would it be? Is it not to allow such dominance of REN and EDP? Mr Minister, the Government approved by order in 2019 the allocation of the selective collection of bioresidues to multi-municipal systems, the majority of which is the General Development Company, S.A. in the Mota-Engil group. This order, after several public criticisms of the President of ERSAR ( Regulatory Authority for Water and Waste Services ) and Zero, was forwarded by the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action, for assessment to the PGR ( Attorney-General of the Republic ). After an unfavorable opinion of the same office, the same was repealed by the Government. The Government then proceeded to make such allocation through Decree-Law No 102 - D / 2020, which was the subject of parliamentary review in the Assembly of the Republic. The government was assigning to the EGF ( General Development Company, S.A. ) , from the Mota-Engil group, a competence of the municipalities, putting aside public procurement. In practice, at present, the municipalities or directly collect the waste or contract the collection to private people, through public procurement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u235	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u236	I shall now conclude, Mr President. With the provisions proposed by the Government, there could be a direct allocation to EGF / SUMA ( Urban Services and Environment, S.A. ) the collection of these wastes, exceeding the rules of competition with the private and the rules of public procurement. The same applies to textile waste, food oils, etc. The NAP made a proposal to amend this provision by the Government, maintaining the powers to collect bioresidues and other flows in the municipalities, within the framework of the parliamentary assessment which was approved, with the vote against the PS and votes in favour of the other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u237	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u238	What I ask you, Minister, is the following: why have you insisted so much on privatizing this business? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u239	You have the floor to answer, Mr Environment Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u240	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by congratulating you on what, at least for me, is the first time that I like to see in this Parliament and to tell you that I would like to say a nice word to you on the second subject you have chosen, but I cannot. Even because it is amazing how you fulaniize all the steps of the event around the bioresidues and omit it—and it is not because you have forgotten. At some point, it refers to some of these steps to French, as if it were 'on a', type'selling melons'... Who, having doubts about legality, sent to the Attorney-General of the Republic the order that was then taken over in my Ministry? I say, and I speak in a voice that you hear: it was me! [[Protests by PAN Member Nelson Silva.]] Are you all right, sir? Oh, my God! That part has escaped him, and that part is not at all a detail. That is all I wanted to say to you, in addition to wishing you very good luck as a Member. With the permission of Mr. President, I would now give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u241	Of course, Minister. Mr. Secretary of State João Galamba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u242	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you too. Mr President, the law of self-consumption and of the energy communities is this government and therefore it has no feet or heads to say that this government does not bet on small production. But it is also a myth, Mr President, that the country can only live with small production. First of all, it doesn't seem to me that all the cities in the country can be covered with panels in all buildings. Then the costs are higher, Mr. Therefore, one cannot complain of having high electricity prices and then think that we can dispense economies of scale and centrals of some size and that it can all be microproduction. Mr President, do not forget that the electricity grid is neither REN nor EDP. The power grid is the state, i.e., of all Portuguese. So when does the honourable Member ask 'for what conditions for selling to the community network? , what you are proposing is that all electricity consumers who are not in communities or have their own panels subsidize this sale of electricity to the network. That doesn't defend the small consumer, does the opposite. What this government is doing, therefore, is recognizing that the country needs micro-production and small-production and therefore made the law regulating collective self-consumption and energy communities. And that is why we are now reviewing the law, so obviously based on the experience of two years of this, identified a set of constraints, give them a positive answer and try to solve them. Sharing energy between neighbors using dynamic management applications in communities will be possible? Go ahead, Mr. Deputies. And we are going to be the child - by decree-law - already in the decree-law that we are preparing. Is it possible to resolve some of the constraints of the REN? Yes, sir, but it is not possible to solve all. You know why? Because the network is, in fact, scarce. The network is, in fact, scarce, investments. I have heard your party, for example, protesting about the construction of many electrical networks, so I have some difficulty in understanding what the NAP understands by "the need to strengthen the electricity grid" and then oppose it! — and combat projects for the construction of electrical networks. Mr President, there is a need to resolve these contradictions. The Government recognises all these tensions. Large parks have impacts, advantages and disadvantages; but small production has advantages and disadvantages. And the country needs all of it, sir. So who thinks that the country can live without any large photovoltaic park is roundly deceived! Surprisingly deceived And that would increase if we were to dispensate all the middle and large parks of the country and focus on just...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u243	Would you like to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u244	The prices of electricity would be higher and, worse, the electricity grid that we all paid from our invoice would be under-utilized, would be a idle asset and would therefore pay even more for consumers and businesses. So, honourable Member, without extremism or radicalism, Portugal needs all kinds of renewable energy projects. And that is exactly what this government is committed to, whether or not recognizing the NAP, is what the government is implementing. But regardless of what the NAP can recognize, it is a fact that we are doing so, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u245	Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u246	Mr President, Mr Minister, first of all let me tell you that we have not answered the questions we have asked about the exploitation of lithium, tin and volframium. I think he comes here to answer the questions put by the honourable Members! Tomorrow, four years of the dramatic fires of Great Pedrogon have been recorded. In memory, the catastrophic consequences, including loss of human lives, damage to thousands of homes, the destruction of hundreds of businesses and agricultural holdings, as well as the more than 500 000 hectares of forest area depleted by fire, will remain. The summer fires in 2017 and 2018 proved the concern that the ENP denounced—and denounced—for years: that the monoculture of eucalyptus had a great responsibility for the proliferation and vehemence of those fires, as it confirmed the report of the Independent Technical Commission. Four years later, neither the paradigm nor the forest policies changed. While the government announced millions volatile to the forest, the spontaneous eucalyptus grew. As saved wooden parks were announced beyond reality, the eucalyptus regenerated. Until the support to small owners for cleaning and re-arboring arrives, the acacias and other invaders proliferate. The landscape plans announced under the PRR do not go beyond palliatives in the chaotic forest of eucalyptuses and acacias that proliferated on a large scale through the burning areas. The area of Pinhal Interior is, at broad pace, becoming a eucalyptal; populations and forests are still as vulnerable today to fires of a nature similar to those that occurred in 2017. On the initiative of DOS Verdes, under the 2021 State Budget, the Government was entrusted with financial support to small-scale forest owners and producers, authorities and baldium managers for the start-up and control of spontaneous growth eucalyptuses. Mr Minister, when do you intend to launch this support and what is the amount of money you are given? On the initiative of DOS Verdes, the Assembly of the Republic recommended that the Government create specific support to small owners to remove the trees burned by the major fires of 2017 that remain on the ground and for the re-arborization with endogenous species more resistant to fires, particularly in interface areas. Minister, has the government put this resolution in the drawer? What measures are being constructed to support the cleaning of the areas burned four years ago and to effectively re-arboration with more endogenous species resistant to fires, particularly in interface areas? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u247	To reply, Mr President, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u248	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Silva, about where the lithium farms are going, this is a question that you have already asked a number of times. And I haven't answered in a while because I remember you well to ask me here the question when it was completely public and if I had left a map.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u249	Maybe, you need a new map!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u250	And the title that you gave in the take you sent to the newspapers was "If it weren't for the ENP, the Portuguese wouldn't know". Certainly, the Portuguese did not forget that the ENP must have been disclosed what everyone already knew what it was. So it's the same! There is no change and no novelty here. Mrs Deputie, with regard to the eucalyptus and the generality of monoculture, I am deeply convinced of something, and it is in this sense that we have worked in our ministry: in addition to having to multiply the presence of indigenous trees in our territory, in addition to having to realize that adaptation is done—with what I am sure, the honourable Member agrees — in the sense of resources not to adapt to us, but to them, much more, sometimes, than the choice of species, much more than the intensive or non-intensive, which is absolutely essential to provoke a mosaic and the discontinuity in the landscape.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u251	We're the same! It's a long fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u252	That is why landscape plans are so essential.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u253	Four years! It's been four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u254	It does not depart from the principle, for example, that there is ever more biodiversity in a territory that knows well and is familiar to it than in an area of intensive crops. That's not true! If, in fact, the territory is well managed and if it is managed in mosaic, in some cases there are in other cases. On the question of infestants, I would like to tell you that there is a notice of EUR 15 million from the Rural Development Programme (RDP) for the removal of infestants from woodland, which is expected to open one another. What is absolutely essential is to end monoculture, and what is most obvious in Portugal is that of eucalyptus.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u255	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u256	I'm done now, Mr. President. We cannot have monoculture extensions like those we have, and the transformation of this territory goes through even the existence of landscape plans that make the right proposals for the right places and propose the mosaics necessary for our landscape to be even different from what is today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u257	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u258	Mr President, I am penitentiary for missing the first round, but the gift of ubiquity still does not assist me. I would like to congratulate Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, after more than three hours of debate, I confess that I still find it very difficult to understand the logic of some of the dozens of measures that are being discussed here, particularly those that have to do with the emission of greenhouse gases. When the Minister announces that, in the future, between PRR, the new Community frameworks and the re-feasing of funds, we will have — I think it was what he spoke about — EUR 13 billion to invest, the logic of these investments, which will eventually be supported by the Portuguese taxpayers, even more important is. I think I have already mentioned once in plenary, with you, Minister, that this confusion has a little to do with the fact that environmental matter has become a kind of religion, which has its dogmas, that no one can even question, that it has its prophets, whose opinions are sacrosanct and which also has its heretics. I think I'm one of the heretics, I'm here to subject myself to the self of faith, it's not a silver bullet, it's resting; I think this has to do with the wolves, and that's not yet accused me — and the auto of faith is those who don't completely subscribe to the most extreme positions of extinctionrebellion of this life.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u259	Climate change doesn't exist, does it? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u260	I would therefore like to be able to understand the logic behind the various measures adopted by the Portuguese Government and, above all, those which will be adopted. This is because, in the Liberal Initiative, we think it is so serious to do nothing, because if you deny the problem, how to do everything that any alarmist has launched to the agenda that month. This is the subject of the Paris Agreement, which is at its height for five years and which provided that at the end of last year the European Union and Portugal also presented the review of their NDCs (nationally defined contributions), i.e. nationally defined contributions. My first question is whether this has happened and, if it has not happened, when it is planned. More importantly: when it happens, what goals and goals will we be committed to and how do we know that it makes sense that these goals and those goals that we have to be committed to and what investments will be behind? How can we compare the measures that we will take in this context with others that are alternatives. Where are these analyses—which I do not find anywhere—that allow us to compare the effects, the impacts of what is being invested, what is being achieved, whether it is merely emissions matter, whether it is cost or financial benefits, or other less quantifiable but real benefits. So, in practice, how can Portuguese be sure that, in environmental matters, their money is being applied well, in the most rational way possible and not according to the current alarms? Speaking of economic rationality and investment, there is also a very specific issue, but I think it illustrates this difficulty, which is: how can it be justified, in terms of rationality, to invest more than 500 million euros in the extension of the red line or the closure of the green line, the so-called circular line of the Lisbon metro and how can I compare this with alternative investments that could be made, perhaps in several areas of the country, with environmental impacts?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u261	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u262	So where are the analyses and how can Parliament, all parties and all citizens look at the problems and compare the merit of the measures that are taken?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u263	To reply, Mr President, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u264	Mr President, Member, starting with the most direct parts, yes, Europe has delivered its NDC and the goal is known: a reduction of at least 55 % of emissions by 2030. There was a target of less than 40 %, which is the one in Paris, which was the possible agreement at the time and which grew—and indeed—to less than 55 %, because that is the need for reduction of emissions which will lead to Europe being a neutral continent in emissions by 2050. Yes, there was an impact assessment promoted by the Commission — impact assessment in the sense in which it referred, exactly. It is not environmental impact assessment, which is the consequences and transformations of society and the economy according to this same goal. For this reason, in the debate leading to the final format of the climate law, which repeated and incorporated this goal of INDC, there was such a big discussion because the European Parliament wanted 60 % reduction by 2030. I will be rigorous: whoever negotiated on behalf of the European Parliament wanted this reduction of 60 % and one of the very consistent reasons, so that we could not go further — regardless of my will, which is of little interest or little interest at the moment — was that we had no impact assessment on what could happen if we had reached a target of 55 % to 60 %. Therefore, this is even a goal that was calculated and designed with all care. Mr President, if there is an area in which – always impossible to make forecasts – it is even possible to consult what can happen in view of our objective between now and 2050, it is even the area of mitigating emissions reduction with a Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality. I may be missing something, Mr, but I do not know any area in which the economic assessment of the three scenarios that were built for carbon neutrality until 2050 is so obvious. In a completely independent way and as many university professors also belong to environmental associations, it was concluded that the scenario in which carbon neutrality is most guaranteed is that in which the economy grows. In other words, it is the one in which even more energy is consumed — obviously all of it produced by renewable sources — in which there is more mobility, obviously with zero emissions. In other words, it is the one in which the economy grows the most and in which it implies an investment above the 2000 million euro/year business, of which about 85 % of this investment is private investment: families in the transformation of their home into a house with zero emissions, families in the change of their car to fuel for an electric car and, in particular, companies that have a very important role in fact. Mr President, speaking to many companies—though sometimes they are shocked by a minister talking to companies; and these things even come in newspapers—I look at the sectors where I am confronted with different levels of concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u265	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u266	But I will say the following, and with this I conclude, Mr President: the sectors that produce more emissions, such as that of industry, which is even a sector that is deeply engaged in its transformation for reasons of citizenship and environmental concern, yes, of course, but because they realize that they will be without business in the face of their customers' demands if they do not quickly make this transformation. Thank you for your questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u267	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded this debate. I would like to thank the Minister for his presence, as well as Mrs and the Members for his work. State Secretaries. I ask Mrs. Secretary of Bureau Sofia Araújo to report to us on some file.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u268	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 873 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, and 880 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission. The draft resolution No 1340 / XIV / 2 has also entered the table. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 11. the Commission. I further inform the House that was present at today's plenary meeting, by video conference, Mrs Marta Freitas of the PS. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-16.u269	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to announce the agenda for the next plenary meeting, which will take place tomorrow for 3 p.m. from the first point there is a debate on the theme « Competitiveness: an urgent challenge for Portugal », required by the PSD, under Article 62 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. the second item of the agenda item is the assessment of the General Account of the State of 2019. Good afternoon to all and to all. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 32 minutes.]]
