ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let's start this plenary meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] As the first item on the agenda we have the discussion of Petition No 577 / XIII / 4. a ( Renato Fialho de Mendonça and Vasconcellos et al.) — They request the reduction of retirement age for people with disabilities, together with, in general, Law Projects Nos 590 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Anticipation of the age of reform of disabled workers and 617 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Special scheme for access to early retirement for people with disabilities. Before we start the debate, however, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will give a set of important information on what she has entered the Bureau and which I have dispatched for debate in the Assembly of the Republic. In the meantime, I announce that we already have quorum for the votes, as 122 Members are registered. You have the floor, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. I would like to inform you that you have entered the Bureau and have been admitted to a number of legislative initiatives. First of all, the Proposal for a Law No 71 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAA ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and the Motion for a Resolution No 19 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which drops to 2. the Commission. I also announce Law Projects No. 655 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 656 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 657 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 658 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 659 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 660 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 661 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission. I also refer to Resolution Projects Nos 886 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 887 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 888 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 889 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 890 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 891 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 11. a, 892 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 893 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. a, 894 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 4. the Commission, 895 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 896 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 8. The Commission, in connection with 12. a, 897 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 898 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 900 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 1. a, 901 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 902 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR), 903 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 904 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 905 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 906 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 907 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 8. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u3	Thank you, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Let us now enter the first item on the agenda. To begin the debate, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens consider it urgent to create conditions for the participation and development of all citizens in different areas of life, working towards the full inclusion of people with disabilities, as well as for the full recognition and promotion of their fundamental rights. As we know, Portugal ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, a binding instrument that aims to promote, protect and guarantee the human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons with disabilities, promoting respect for their dignity and recognizing their self-determination. The principles of this important Convention are, in fact, in line with our Constitution, in particular Article 71. the, which obliges the State to implement a national policy of prevention, treatment, rehabilitation and integration of citizens with disabilities and support to their families. However, despite the evolution over time, there is still a long way to go in terms of the effective realization of the rights of people with disabilities, the promotion of quality of life and the fight against discrimination. Regarding the development of work activity by people with disabilities, it is important to bear in mind that this activity involves an incomparably higher physical and emotional wear than other workers. This wear occurs in the transposition of various barriers, from housing to the workplace, often occurring in transport and in the workplace itself, while not forgetting that there are specific requirements at home, such as clothing and personal hygiene, which involve higher wear. The normal aging process of people with disabilities is usually more complex due to an entire life of reduced mobility, medication, surgery, worse general health status, among other factors. It is not surprising, therefore, that people with disabilities have a higher prevalence of secondary health conditions, such as pain, weakness, tiredness, depression, sleep disorders, among many others. There are still sequelae resulting from the disease or from the damage suffered and caused the disability, sequelae which, over time, have worsened. Indeed, people with disabilities are subject to an over effort to maintain a professional activity, which affects their aging, can bring pathologies and even have influence on the average life expectancy. For this reason, people with disabilities should be entitled to reform, while their incapacity is not aggravated to the point of preventing them from enjoying it with some quality of life. in this specific case, we can and should look at the international examples in which these conditions were considered in the legislation of other countries, such as Spain, Germany or even France, which enshrine the anticipation of the retirement age, without penalty in the case of disabled workers. In the light of the above, the Greens Ecological Party, defending the reduction of the retirement age in general, since it is a measure, above all, fair, also considers it to be of full justice and urgent need that disabled workers who have at least 20 years of work, 15 of which correspond to a disability equal to or greater than 60 %, may benefit from the reduction of the retirement age without any penalty. This is what is proposed in this Greens legislative initiative. I leave two final notes: one to demonstrate the full availability of the Greens so that we can improve this diploma, another to welcome, on behalf of the Greens, the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition that was at the origin of this agenda and who demand exactly the reduction of the retirement age for people with disabilities, a requirement that our proposal seeks to provide an adequate response, without prejudice, of course, to be able to be improved in the field of specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u5	You now have the floor to present the draft law of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us, of course, begin by welcoming the petitioners of this initiative which is of the most fundamental justice and importance and goes to the meeting of what the NAP has been defending in this Assembly of the Republic, for a question of social justice and of strengthening the human rights of people with disabilities. In Portugal, although we have seen some advances in recent years, people with disabilities continue to face too many obstacles, either in access to the labour market or in the social exclusion they are targeted in their daily lives. As the data of the Survey on Living and Income Conditions in Portugal show, in 2018, the risk of poverty or social exclusion among people with disabilities was higher than that of people with disabilities, with particular incidence in people with severe disabilities. We all know that this situation can be aggravated by this socio-economic context resulting from the crisis of COVID-19. We are talking about people who, in spite of their health problems and limitations, are striving and committed daily to their personal and professional achievement and to contribute to our society. They are people who want to have a full life, who want to be taxpayers and not dependents. But we are also talking about people to whom, as we know, a public transport trip, a trip to the supermarket or a simple shift from point B to point B represent a constant planning and challenge, a challenge to which we continue without giving proper answers, remaining too many barriers. We cannot continue to ignore the efforts of these people and the difficulties they face, with consequences to their physical and emotional health. That is why it is of the most fundamental justice that a special regime of early retirement for people with disabilities is created, without any penalty. They are people who are effectively subject to greater effort, to greater physical and psychological wear and, in many cases, are still confronted with the limitation of their rights, without any reason or justification for the State to not return these people due compensation for all the difficulties and obstacles they have faced throughout their lives, but to whom we have to give a timely response. The NAP argues that, more than creating a special regime for access to early retirement for people with disabilities, it is essential to create a strategic plan for the integration of people with disabilities, while it is essential to monitor and ensure compliance with existing legislation, as their fundamental rights are often violated or ignored, due to ignorance, lack of priority or lack of auscultation of these people, their families and representative entities. Moreover, we cannot ignore that the risk of poverty or social exclusion of these people is higher than in people with disabilities or some kind of disability. We have recently discussed here a proposal to ensure the increase in the social provision of inclusion, which has unfortunately been rejected, leaving, therefore, incomprehensible, these persons also relegated to contexts of poverty or material deprivation. We will not confer rights on people with disabilities—and we are talking about the same rights, equal opportunities, the same accessibility of people with no disabilities—it is by itself an unacceptable form of exclusion and discrimination on the part of this House of Citizens. We well know that people with disabilities face many complications during their aging process, including physical limitations, worsening health status and resorting to medication and permanent medical follow-up. That is why today we propose that people with at least 55 years of age have a proven disability of 60 % or more and have a minimum of 20 years of effective contribution. If the State has failed to meet the needs of people with disabilities during their growth, youth and adult age, which has at least the courage to do at the age of their retirement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u7	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the petitioners who bring to the Assembly of the Republic a requirement to establish justice. There are domains of our collective life in which positive discrimination is an imperative of effective equality and in which insistence on formal equality is a mechanism for perpetuating real inequalities. The rights of persons with disabilities are one of these areas in which the struggle for equality and the struggle for difference must be combined so that dignity is effectively affirmed. People with disabilities have the right to work, decent work and rights, like all people, they have the right to work which, as for all people, is responsible for all their abilities and enhances their material and existential autonomy. But the day-to-day work of a disabled person is not equal to that of all other people, because there is an immense additional effort in each small gesture, there is a different duration of each small current task, which is up and down to the working day, or which is part of it, there is an added wear that each hour of work brings to these people. Also to treat what is equal and to treat differently what is different is an old and wise rule of justice. For all I have said, it will have a mandatory expression in the age of reform of people with disabilities. Last December 10, International Human Rights Day, this Plenary discussed a left-block bill proposing that anyone who is 55 years of age, with 20 years of contributing career, 15 of whom corresponding to a disability equal to or greater than 60%, be entitled to reform without penalty. That initiative was then brought down to committee without a vote. Today's debate, triggered by this important petition, shows the correctness of the Left Block proposal — it is in line with identical legislative solutions adopted by other countries, such as Brazil or Spain. This is therefore not a national invention. And be it! Open... As I wrote yesterday, a companion of this struggle, the professions of disabled people may not be worn out quickly, but each disabled worker is always a professional of rapid wear. Recognizing their right to reform at the age of 55 is therefore not, as some men suggest, a privilege, is only a proof of good sense and respect for whom, throughout his life, he fought against the stigma of being seen as invalid and is forced, by this petty spirit that insists on formal equality where there is material inequality, to reform himself for invalidity. There is no better way to achieve this respect than to reduce the retirement age. It was a legal obligation for the Government to submit a study on this reduction by the end of last year. The government has failed to fulfil this obligation and we are waiting for the government to decide, in fact, to comply with the law to give in to its negligence and we will make it a justification for the continuation of injustice towards people with disabilities. The Left Block will not deal with this strategy and will bring its proposal to votes as soon as possible and then will see who it is and who is not consistent with the discourse on the apology of the rights of people with disabilities. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u9	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u10	Mr President : On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I should like to congratulate the petitioners who have mobilized to bring this petition to the Assembly of the Republic, indicating that the issues raised in this petition deserve attention and concern from the CFP. In fact, these are reflected in the bill that we gave up for the creation of a regime of access to reform for people with disabilities that was discussed last December. At the time, we stated that the profound difficulties in access to employment with rights result in limiting and preventing the construction of an autonomous and independent life and also, not rarely, in a short and fragile contribution career, meaning less social protection, including when people with disabilities reach the moment of reform. There is, of course, another dimension, also mentioned in the petition, which relates to the specificity of the aging process of people with disabilities, usually more difficult and with more problems, especially health, associated. We also quoted in this speech the words of the APD ( Portuguese Disability Association ) on issues of access to the reform of disabled people, which discuss the following: "The development of work by people with disabilities implies a physical and emotional wear which is incomparably greater than that of any disabled worker", adding that "physical effort begins at home, with the specific requirements that disability puts, it prolongs in the transposition of the various physical and communication barriers between housing and the workplace, including in transport and, not rare cases, at home and at work". To talk about the reform of people with disabilities, people with disabilities, the conditions for access to reform for this social group also means talking about their working conditions and the increased effort required for them. We advocate that jobs should be properly adapted and that they should be provided with all the tools necessary for workers to be able to perform their duties. We continue to insist on the urgent elimination of continuing architectural barriers, ensuring access to public and collective transport, as well as on mobility in the stations and stops of these same transports and on mobility in other public spaces. It is also essential, in the discussion of this matter, to ensure the strengthening of social protection in situations of incapacity for work. It is not difficult to recognize the difficulty of going to work every day or returning home, circulating in places with continuous obstacles or having to use public transport to which it is not possible to access, or the difficulty of having to work without the necessary tools to perform their duties or jobs adapted to needs — this is the reality of many people with disabilities and the reality with which they face every day. They are further efforts that are required to those who are already in a more fragile situation, as is the case with this same social group. Without prejudice to substantive and transversal measures, it is also necessary to respond to specific issues immediately, by defining conditions for access to reform for people with disabilities, without penalties, and taking into account specific needs that may exist. The CFP, in December, presented a draft law for the creation of a specific regime for access to reform, understanding that this scheme should have a set of associated criteria which should also be defined in conjunction with the representative organisations of people with disabilities. Without prejudice to the fact that other criteria are considered in this same discussion, the CFP believes that it is important to define a time of contributory career, a period of disability attested by medical board, as should also be considered the penoness and weariness of the functions performed, considering the disability or disability existing, and it cannot be ignored, in the discussion of this topic, the heterogeneity of disability and disability. As regards the legislative initiatives in question, considering that there are already others for analysis and discussion, it would be important for them to join those already in the Committee on Labour and Social Security for the construction of wider responses. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u11	For an intervention, Mrs Marta Freitas spoke by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Start this speech by complimenting and greeting the petitioners who brought to the Assembly of the Republic, to the House of Democracy, an initiative that aims to respond to the demands of disabled people who are already included in the labour market and seek early reform, without penalties. I also welcome the parties who have brought forward proposals to contribute to this discussion. It seems to us that this recognition is unanimous that, indeed, ageing in a long-term disability is not the same as it is felt by people who have no disabilities. It is therefore relevant and important to discuss this matter. The Socialist Party considers that this proposal and this matter should not be viewed and analyzed in an isolated way, before it should be in a set of subjects which have already been realized and implemented, throughout this last Parliament, over the past five years, and which has gained a great leverage. Therefore, along with the question of employment, I stress here a number of matters which are important today. I give the example of the MAVI ( Independent Life Support Model ), which is important for self-determination and for the autonomy of people with disabilities, also of the social provision for inclusion, which was important for combating inactivity, as well as for associating and reconciling with professional activity. The second point I would like to highlight is the quotas for employability and employment access quotas. Indeed, it is an important step in that everyone has the right to work and, in this respect, the Government aims to strengthen measures relating to employment quotas and to increase incentives to businesses. in the next phase, creating-CL will be the agency for employability, the VALOR T cooperative, in order to train these citizens, to help them in their placement and inclusion in the labour market, and to support them in the posterior phase. This link between citizens and businesses seems to be important to us. Thus, even with regard to the measures that have been implemented during the last legislature, I also stress the issue of accessibility. It is important for disabled people to have access to their workplace and this investment is being made by the government to improve physical accessibility, digital communications. It seems very important to us, once again, to collaborate in the sense of greater inclusion in the labour market. With regard to this matter, the Government of the Socialist Party has fulfilled, implementing a working group within the framework of the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security to initiate this study which was ensured in the State Budget for 2020, in order to create, see and evaluate various hypotheses and conditions for the early reform of people with disabilities assessed. Even in December—I reiterate here what was said, in the discussion, at that time— was made a preliminary version that was discussed at the National Council for Solidarity Policies, Volunteering, Family, Rehabilitation and Social Security, where certain organizations representative of people with disabilities are represented. Therefore, this matter had already advanced, during this discussion, with a lifting of the various hypotheses. In the proposals that were presented today, we once again found that there was no lifting of the budgetary impact.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u13	Did you get a lift? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u14	This is important to realize the impact that a measure of this size will have. Nor is an accounting made in the way in which it may affect or not the sustainability of social security. It seems to us that are important matters and that must be ensured in the measures that are presented. in this sense, we even congratulate the Social Democratic Party on waiting for this study to be completed so that it can present its own initiative. It is really important that this survey and the Government's commitment be made, that they be accounted for also taking into account, for equity, the type of disability, the working time with the disability and the relationship of disability with the role that the citizen performs. The Socialist Party believes that we must work on a sound, fair and equitable measure in which the parties are aligned to ensure that, in their proposals too, they guarantee this fairness, justice and balance. Therefore, the Socialist Party believes that it is extemporaneous and counterproductive we are now discussing these matters. It is necessary to wait for the lifting which will soon be submitted by the Government. We must therefore work together on a solid, fair and fair proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u15	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue we are dealing with today is the most basic justice. They are not only citizens who are regularly harmed, either in access and in how they perform and prepare their work, but also at the most difficult time, when they seek access to the retirement age. I would like to quote Mrs Marta Freitas who, in December last year, said: "Be calm, because the government is conducting a study on this matter and we will soon present conclusions on this very important issue". [[Protests from PS MP Marta Freitas.]] You said, Mrs. Member, it's registered and that's what you said! And you said more, Mrs. Deputy! He said that he was going to bring together the Council for solidarity and social security policy—whatever that is—and that at the end of the year he would present conclusions. Now, it has passed the end of the year, it has passed the first month of the year and we have absolutely no conclusions! And your Prime Minister—not mine, but yours— said the following: « Parliament, with the chance of the Socialist Party, will shortly approve this deserved reform for people with disabilities ». Madam Member, not only did your Prime Minister put forward no plans for the reform of disabled people, but she also missed the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u17	Mr. Deputies, you have to do the right thing to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u18	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, he failed the truth, when he said that at the end of the year we would have a result of the meeting that never happened and a result of the study that has not yet been completed. So we ask you, in this House, what are the results of this study? Will the Socialist Party agree to reduce the retirement age for people with disabilities or not? That's what we wanted to hear from the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u19	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u20	But as always, we only have promises, studies, opinions and a «to see if you're going forward».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u21	He's missing the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u22	Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would, of course, first of all like to welcome the petitioners who addressed the Assembly of the Republic in an exercise of participatory citizenship, which is always welcome. Today, we are discussing legislative initiatives on reducing the age of reform of people with disabilities. It's not, as you've already said, a new subject. It has already been discussed earlier and, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it must always be discussed, but we must do so with the utmost seriousness and responsibility that the matter deserves us and not just in a mere exercise of account, which often seems to be what happens here. I note that this measure, advocated in draft laws, has established a positive discrimination of persons with disabilities in access to reform. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what exactly are we talking about? What is the universe of potential beneficiaries? What is the impact on social security? What is the cost of this measure? Does anyone know? The PSD considers that we do not have concrete data to make a serious and detailed analysis of these proposals. We have no data, ladies and gentlemen. Members, especially in order to hold a responsible discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u25	In this regard, I cannot fail to recall that, in accordance with the State budget for 2020, as Mrs Marque Freitas said, the Government committed itself during 2020, therefore last year, to study a scheme of early access to the reform for beneficiaries with a disability equal to or greater than 60 %. This was exactly what was provided for in Article 75. that of the State Budget Act. What did the Government, Mrs Deputy, do during the year 2020? Nothing! The honourable Member, on 10 December, came to Parliament and said: "Wait, the year is not over! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But, after all, it is over, and we in Parliament have no knowledge of any study or report that will allow a serious, equitable discussion in this House, with justice and, above all, with responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u27	In conclusion, I mean, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the PSD wants to debate this subject, but wants to debate it, I reiterate, with the greatest seriousness and fairness. We are therefore waiting for the results of this study, which now seems, as Mrs Deputy said, that it will only be a preliminary version. It's no longer the full study, it's just preliminary conclusions. But here we await the results of this study. In fact, our initiative, Mrs Deputies, is precisely about this: to urge the Government to only fulfil a compromise which was what he himself said he was going to make. That is the content of our initiative, indeed. We are therefore available for this debate, but we refuse the exercises of political demagogy of some parties, which are now on the backs of the government, now approve the Government's budgets, on the basis of political convenience. To that end, they do not, of course, count on the Social Democratic Party. We want to be serious, so we will discuss it with responsibility and seriousness. I want to end by saying that the PSD is a humanist party, that will always mobilize against inequalities and will always be committed to building a more just and inclusive society for all, making, above all, the difference a force and diversity a great added value. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u28	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the petitioners and point out that both the ENP and the NAP have drawn up for this debate a subject which we had already discussed in December, on initiatives by the CFP and the Left Block. The position of the CDS will, of course, be the same as it did at that time. We understand that it is a fundamental issue, in terms of discussion, in order to be able to bring justice to people with disabilities who can, can and do have the motivation to work and that, of course, must have special conditions, an increase in access to reform. What's going on? It is not easy to implement this matter and to know exactly what budgetary impacts it has. We are discussing several things at the same time: how many years of contributing career should people have to benefit from access to this possible anticipation; how many years of this contributing career have already been made with the disability that gives the right to early retirement; at which age these people may have access to this early provision. These are sufficiently complex issues and have sufficiently relevant budgetary impacts for us to have the need to contextualize. What did the Socialist Party tell us at the end of 2019? He said that it is all true and, therefore, it is necessary to study and know what is going on and to commit itself, in the State Budget, to not solve anything, but to put one of those programmatic rules in the Budget to indicate that they will change it after doing the study. As always, they did not do the study, they did not present the data and nothing happened! Mrs Marta Freitas, it is not worth coming up with the December talk, because when, in December, we all said that there was a few days left to finish the year, that the Budget would expire on December 31 and that those articles in particular would not be fulfilled, the honourable Member said something similar to what she said today. In fact, it's dangerous, because you said more at the time than you're saying now, which makes us even more concerned. So what we can do is enable these initiatives, so that, like the others that were discussed in December, they go down to the specialty. But there is one thing we cannot but say: once and for all, the government must take the step that is essential in this legislative process. It has to be the government to tell us what the impacts of the different options are on the table so that we can consciously resolve this situation. by doing this, the Government and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group are preventing the recognition of these people, delaying the possibility that they will have their anticipation of reform and, above all, are doing so secretly. That's not acceptable. We must be transparent, defend each other's position, see what is budgetaryly possible and what is the responsibility of the budgetary restriction and ultimately decide. Pushing with the belly is what cannot be done, even more so when people are concerned who, having a disability, have worked hard to work, and must be recognized for that.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u31	With no further entries for this point, we move to the second point of our agenda, which is the discussion of Petition No 44 / XIV / 1. a ( Jorge Dinis Pinto et al.) — « Reaperture» of Visconde de Salreu Hospital, together with Resolution Projects Nos 769 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Investment and requalification of Visconde de Salreu Hospital, 828 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By valuing Visconde Salreu Hospital, in Estarreja, 836 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — The reopening of the emergency service and the proper functioning of Visconde de Salreu Hospital ( Estarreja ) and 842 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Requalification of Visconde de Salreu Hospital. Before giving the floor to Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, for an intervention, I inform you that, for the purpose of voting, 192 Members, we therefore have a very large quorum. You have the floor, Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would obviously like to greet the more than 4000 petitioners and in particular the population of the municipality of Estarreja, which has mobilized for this petition. It's true what they say. over the years, the hospital of Estarreja has lost many services in the area of health. In 2008 it was the emergency service. Then, in 2010, the hospital centre was set up and what happens whenever hospital centers are created: the peripheral units, smaller in size, end up losing services to the hospital that is the headquarters of the hospital center. That is to say, this happened with the hospital in Estarreja. There were several specialist consultations that were withdrawn from there and concentrated, for example, in the hospital of Aveiro. Therefore, it is true that over the years, the State hospital has lost services and has been emptied. This has led to negative consequences for the city of Estarreja, for its population and, above all, for that more direct population, which was served by this hospital and which now has to travel several kilometers - it has to make long and frequent trips — if you want to have access to health care. But it has also brought negative consequences, for example, to the Aveiro hospital itself, which, of the three that constitute the Down Vouga Hospital Center, is not only the most differentiated, but also the most overburdened and which, often, is more crowded in its emergencies, in its external consultations, in boarding, etc. Now, the fact that you are emptying a unit like that of Estarreja to disintegrate in the Aveiro unit a search that could be resolved in Estarreja is obviously a solution that only hurts all the units, because it emptys a unit that is necessary and overloads the other more differentiated one. But the question, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is to know whether or not there are health needs that justify, for example, the operation of the hospital in Estarreja. I think there should be no big doubts about this. There are immense health needs in the country that need strengthening and responses. There are immense health needs that are to be met and to be resolved, such as complementary means of diagnosis and therapy. All and all of us, all and all users know how often it is difficult to get tests in the National Health Service (SNS). Now, in Estarreja, we have an under-utilized hospital facility, very empty, where complementary means of diagnosis and therapy that are so lacking in the National Health Service could be placed. I also refer to, for example, responses in physical medicine and rehabilitation. Who had the opportunity, as the Left Block has already had and as I have already had, to visit the hospital of Estarreja knows that the gym that is there has no conditions, but could have very good conditions, if it had investment, and could respond to this need that exists in the country for a public response in the area of physical medicine and rehabilitation. Who is a user of the National Health Service knows that we need, increasingly, decentralized specialist consultations, closer to the population, and at the hospital in Estarreja it was possible to do this. There's an entire under-utilized hospital facility! Now, if there were any doubts, the pandemic has also shown that the National Health Service obviously needs more beds of admission, more responses to the planned activity and even to rear facilities, as we are realizing today, that they can ensure, for example, that the planned activity does not stop and does not get accumulated. Well, this can be found at the hospital in Estarreja. We therefore follow this petition with a legislative initiative, a draft resolution — Mr President. Members know - in - this - that it proposes three basic things and of greater justice. We propose that there be investment in the requalification of the facilities of the hospital of Estarreja, as well as we propose that fundamental services be placed there to the National Health Service and to the population. I have mentioned some of them: complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, an emergency service that gives a permanent response to the population, physical medicine and rehabilitation, more specialist consultations. That's fundamental. And we propose, therefore, the strengthening of professionals. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u33	You have the floor to present your legislative initiative, Mr António Filipe, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP has followed the process of processing the petition that we are discussing and which aims at valuing the hospital of Estarreja, the Hospital Visconde de Salreu. We fully understand the reasons for the dissatisfaction of the population that led to the presentation of this petition, which the CFP understood to be its secondary duty with the presentation of the draft resolution which is also under discussion and which aims precisely at valuing this hospital. It is important to remember that the hospital of Estarreja would provide assistance to a very significant group of the population, that is, not only the population of Estarreja but also the populations of the neighbouring areas, such as the population of Murtosa, the population of São Jacinto, the municipality of Aveiro, the population of the parish of Branca, the municipality of Alberbergaria-a-Velha, and still the population of the parish of Pinheiro da Bemposta, of the municipality of Oliveira de Azemés. Therefore, its location would provide service to a very significant set of populations of various municipalities nearby. Well, what happens is that this hospital has been devalued for several years. It is clearly under-utilized, insofar as various modalities of providing medical care to the population have been abandoned. In this way, today, populations do not have additional means of diagnosis in this health unit, they do not have an emergency service, however basic it is. For this reason, they are obliged to resort to larger hospital units, including the Aveiro hospital, and it is certain that the municipality of Estarreja is not only a municipality crossed by highways with great road fatalities — A1 and A29 — as it houses a large industrial park, chemical industry, with several hundred workers. Therefore, between the option of valuing Visconde de Salreu Hospital, providing it with a basic emergency service and complementary diagnostic means that can serve the populations with greater proximity, avoiding having to travel to such issues as these to the Aveiro Hospital, and the option of devaluing these services and forcing people to use larger hospital units, our choice clearly goes in order to be of all convenience and all advantage to be able to guarantee basic health care of proximity. Thus, with this initiative, the PCP seeks to meet the opinion expressed by the subscribers of this petition in order to be opened a basic emergency service at Visconde de Salreu Hospital, to be re-qualified the existing heritage, which is degraded by the situation of permanent devaluation that has been dragging for several years, and to allow there to be a strengthening of valences and specialist consultations that can serve populations better than in the situation that exists today. The country is not in a position to waste resources when it is able to guarantee, with greater ease and accessibility, the provision of health care to a population that clearly lacks. Between enabling populations to use basic health care more easily, in conditions of accessibility, and forcing them to move to larger hospital units, but less accessible, our choice is the first, that is, the one that meets the feeling of the population. Therefore, the CFP is not only presenting this draft resolution, as it expresses its willingness to vote in favour of the other initiatives put forward by other parliamentary groups, which are currently under discussion, in order to find a common text which can come to this plenary for the vote and which essentially corresponds to what the subscribers ask us to do and which, from our point of view, is the most basic justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u35	The Green Party also has a draft resolution on this subject. To introduce it, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2007, despite the strong opposition of the population, health professionals, the authorities and the community in general, the then PS government carried out a dismantling of the supply of health services, leading to the closure and concentration of many health services and units, affecting in particular primary health care. The emergencies of Visconde de Salreu Hospital in Estarreja were closed in November 2008 and urgent cases were transferred to the hospitals of Aveiro or Santa Maria da Feira. The emergencies served a population that transcended the municipality of Estarreja, covering also the populations of the neighbouring parish of Murtosa, Aveiro, Alberbergaria-a-Velha and Oliveira de Azemés. Subsequently, in 2011 the PS government, following further dismantling, this fact of the hospital park, merged 14 health units, resulting in the creation of six hospitals, one of which was the Down Vouga Hospital Center. This hospital started to integrate the Hospital Infante D. Pedro, in Aveiro, the Hospital Visconde de Salreu, in Estarreja, and the Hospital Conde de Sucena, in Águeda. The trend that was followed by reduced services and decreased valences in the poles of Águeda and Estarreja, particularly in the Hospital Visconde de Salreu, was accentuated by this merger. The Ambulatory Surgery Unit of this hospital, created in 1987, which has become considered one of the best in the country, has also been dismantled, having the operating block has been closed to create a new palliative care unit, with the promise of requalification works in order to resume the operating block, a situation that has never occurred. The loss of services and the decrease in valences in this hospital, together with the closure of the health extensions of Fermelã, Canelas and Veiros, have limited and conditioned the population's access to primary health services and care. In the county of Estarreja, the users are pushed to hospitals in the region, due to the lack of human resources, which present great constraints and have demonstrated inability to respond to care, generating long waiting times. It is also important to emphasize that, in addition to the issues of accessibility and quality of services to be provided to the population of Estarreja, whether these are programmed or urgent, we cannot ignore the need to give a prompt response to the many citizens who, not being residents, work or pass through this highly industrialized and crossed by large road and rail axes. over the years, numerous promises were made to the population about the construction of a new hospital and / or for the improvement of the current one. However, time has passed and the need for intervention in the building is becoming increasingly evident. The progressive degradation of Visconde de Salreu Hospital and the legitimate fears of the population, which sees this disinvestment as prenunciation for the closure of this health unit, have led citizens to promote a petition, which has collected more than 4000 signatures — and I take advantage of to greet the petitioners, on behalf of the Greens — which aims at valuing the State hospital, so that access to quality public health care is resumed. It is necessary to reverse the de-investment trend that has occurred over the years, and it is essential to reopen the emergency service closed in 2008 and ensure its maintenance and proper functioning, which also goes through the strengthening of health professionals in this hospital, in order to ensure the access and quality of health services provided to the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u37	The last legislative initiative to be presented is the PSD, so I give the floor to Mrs Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet Mr. Jorge Dinis Pinto, first subscriber to Petition No. 44 / XIV / 1. the, and the more than 4000 citizens of Estarreja who, in the exercise of their right of citizenship, once again brought the debate in Parliament, the situation of Visconde de Salreu Hospital. The petitioners have expressed their discontent with the closure of valences and the emptying of Visconde de Salreu Hospital. This closure negatively competes with the provision of health care to that population. The struggle of the population of Estarreja and its autarchs is not new. It dates back to 2008, with the closure of the urgencys of Visconde de Salreu Hospital, carried out by a socialist government, for the purpose of creating the Down Vouga Hospital Centre, which has been integrated into the same organization three hospital units: that of Aveiro, that of Estarreja and that of Águeda. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this decision has brought implications to thousands of people in the region — a heavily industrialized region — who have moved to Aveiro, to the central unit, to receive the health care previously provided in Estarreja, with greater proximity. As I said at the beginning of my speech, this is not the first time that Parliament has been discussing this. In May 2014, it recommended that the Government then implement a strategic plan of the hospital centre based on a triple logic and complementarity between the three units. However, about two years ago, it was to be concluded a protocol of technical and financial cooperation between the city of Estarreja, the Hospital Center of Lower Vouga and the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Estarreja. Since then, the requalification works have not been carried out; before, we have been witnessing a decrease in the provision of care and the emptying of a set of services of proximity, which has generated an increasing discomfort and discomfort in the hives. Furthermore, the centrality of services of the Hospital Infante D. Pedro, without the proper strengthening of means, has placed the functioning of this unit of Aveiro under an increasing and undesirable pressure, which has worsened in this pandemic period, which has shown, once again, the lack of investment in the National Health Service, with direct impact on this unit. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it should also be noted that it was not due to lack of insistence on the political power of the State, nor to lack of the availability, cooperation and cooperation of the latter with the guardianship, that the population of the State is still waiting for a solution. Thus, the PSD members, representatives of the Aveiro district, join their voice in the Assembly of the Republic, to the voice of the population of Estarreja and to the voice of their authors, who have been fighting for several years for a requalified building, for a building with dignified conditions of access to the health care of that population. in these terms, the Social Democratic Party proposes to the Assembly of the Republic that the government recommend the requalification of Visconde de Salreu Hospital. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Social Democratic Party considers it imperative not to delay further the appreciation of the Visconde de Salreu Hospital, requiring the re-qualification of its building, particularly in the areas of internal medicine, the block of outpatient surgery and external consultation, in order to restore equity to the population of Estarreja. the government is required to create public policies, effective solutions capable of responding to needs, that guarantee proximity health care and that, above all, they are able to transmit the confidence that the population of Estarreja needs. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u39	Let us turn to the intervention of the PAN Parliamentary Group. Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by welcoming the more than 4000 petitioners who, in fact, give a voice to a population of about 30 000 inhabitants. The closure of the emergencies of the hospital of Salreu and other existing services has only served to overload the hospital of Aveiro and also the hospital of Santa Maria da Feira, and the hospital of Santa Maria da Feira is more than 25 km away. If, before the current health context, the urgency of solving these problems, both in terms of human resources and in terms of infrastructure, was very relevant, this health crisis that we are living in has increased these needs and brought more demands. The improvement of infrastructure resources should be coupled with a strengthening of professionals, so that users can be properly and quickly assisted, thus making a path in which inequalities in access to health, particularly those of a territorial nature, should be taken. The Salreu hospital, already mentioned here, has a very old building and needs a structural reform and an investment in services, equipment and human resources. This petition is not, however, the first manifestation of concern to the population, and already in 2006 a subsigned, with more than 12,000 signatures, was handed over to the then Minister of Health, having not been given, to what we know, any follow-up in the attempt to solve this problem. Fifteen years later the problems have not been solved, on the contrary, have worsened, and what continues to be seen is a continuous push game among the parties that have ruled Portugal. In the middle of this game, the needs of the population remain behind. Therefore, the Government cannot continue to postpone these answers. If, in fact, this health context and this crisis we are experiencing has proved even more the urgency of paradigm change in how we relate to the environment, it has also shown the weaknesses and deficiencies in our health system, about which it is necessary not only to make a serious and in-depth reflection, but also to make action plans that really change the one who has been constantly pushing under the carpet of a sector as important as that of health and that the context we live well has put to the test. That is why we only say that we will follow all the initiatives put forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u41	Thank you very much, Madam Member, for the scrupulous fulfillment of time. For an intervention, Mrs Susana Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet the more than 4000 petitioners of the petition on the reopening of the emergency service of Visconde de Salreu Hospital in Estarreja. The Visconde de Salreu Hospital, in the municipality of Estarreja, Aveiro district, covers an area of influence of nine municipalities in that district and develops its activity in the three hospital units — Aveiro, Águeda and Estarreja — in a model of complementarity and efficiency and in a philosophy of health care integration. This integration, based on a network approach, has motivated the requalification of facilities, as happened with the remodeling of the operating block for outpatient surgery in the Agueda Pole and with the intervention developed at Visconde de Salreu Hospital, which allowed to host the first palliative care unit in the Aveiro region, an important and revealing unit for that region. A development plan is envisaged for Visconde de Salreu Hospital, which provides for: the creation of a convalescence unit of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, with the consequent rehabilitation of the building of Visconde de Salreu Hospital, an investment of EUR 1, 5 million; the strengthening of radiology capacity, with the acquisition of new radiological equipment; and the strengthening of physical medicine and rehabilitation. The installation of a convalescence unit will strengthen the strategy vocation of that hospital and improve the coverage rate in that area. The Government of the Socialist Party is in charge of combating a pandemic, which has delayed the implementation of planned measures, but will not give up giving continuity to the work started to make the National Health Service more robust and efficient and to improve the supply, quality and security of the services provided to users. It is essential to continue with the bet on primary health care and its effective articulation with hospital health care and with continued health care. It is essential to bet on the pre-hospital emergency, to strengthen family health teams, to improve the quality of services provided to citizens and to reach everyone without exception. We know and know closely the importance of quality health care for the residents, so we visited the hospital in Estarreja and have developed a work responsible for the auscultation of health professionals at the various levels of care and regional health administration, in order to articulate the various responses and ensure the provision of safe, integrated and quality care for that region. We have taken a serious and responsible way of valuing Visconde de Salreu Hospital, in Estarreja, so that it can be possible: to strengthen the response of the open consultation, with the extension and extension of the time to the needs of the population; to extend the response to complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, integrated with primary health care; to strengthen the care of proximity— and we had the opportunity to know the more than 18 specialities of external consultation that take place at Visconde de Salreu Hospital, in Estarreja ; and to encourage the response in pre-hospital emergency, with the implementation of an immediate support base of life. With regard to the initiatives under discussion, and we have already welcomed its proponents, let me remind you that the initiatives that in 2014 the Left Block, the PCP and the ENP presented recommended the maintenance of these hospital units, but the PSD and CDS rejected this initiative. I would also like to recall that, at the time, the PSD and the CDS presented a draft resolution recommending to the Government the implementation of a strategic plan and complementarity of these three units, underlining, at the time, in 2014, the importance of taking advantage of each unit which it has of better effectiveness and sustainability for the National Health Service. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is engaged in a policy of strengthening the National Health Service, ensuring the citizens of Estarreja and all Portuguese primary, hospital and continuing quality health care, always seeking efficient, integrated and responsible management of public resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u43	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed once again the organization of health care provision in Aveiro district. We have done so many times in this Parliament, and this has a lot to do with the options that have been taken. Today, we discuss the question of response in hospital care and there it is clear that options that have been taken over the years and that have not been reversed have contributed to two essential problems, both of which are concentrated: the concentration of response and the concentration of investment. What's going on? Whether at the Hospital Center of Between Douro and Vouga, or at the Down Vouga Hospital Center, the investment and the response have focused on each of them, i.e. at the Fair Hospital and the Aveiro Hospital, which has made over time both in Oliveira de Azemés, either in São João da Madeira, either in Estarreja or in Águeda there would be less investment and there would be less response. It is true that, for example, in the case of St John of Madeira, one of the negative decisions that had been made in the past with regard to emergencies has already been reversed, but it is not enough, until there are other situations in the district which are not even integrated in these two hospitals and which also need clarification of the hospital function that they can and should receive and the investment they can attract. I'm talking specifically about Ovar Hospital and Espinho Hospital, this one integrated into Gaia Hospital. What we are discussing today, with regard to Visconde de Salreu Hospital, and not only to the population of Estarreja, but, as has already been said here, well, to the population of various parish municipalities, is the possibility of not overloading, once again, mainly, the Hospital de Aveiro, without that this, on the contrary, means an improvement in the provision of health care to users. It could be the case of the Aveiro Hospital being a recent hospital, with a great deal of response and with a situation where the reception of more users did not cause problems, but it happens that all this is on the contrary, that is, the hospital is not recent, the hospital lacks investment, the hospital has difficulty in responding and is being, successively, overloaded. Therefore, what we understand is that by rethinking the hospital organization of the Aveiro district it is essential to take advantage of the existing structures, which can provide more care than those that provide and which can ensure efficiency in the provision of health care accompanied, also, of a higher quality of life for users. This is a fundamental discussion, not only about Visconde de Salreu Hospital, but today, when we discuss this matter here, we must reaffirm that it is essential to make this reflection on the reorganization of health care in the Aveiro district. But again, it is not to make a successive reflection, without anything happening at all, and what we see is that in the last four years they have been successively approved...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u45	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u46	I will finish, Mr. President. I said that over the past four years recommendations have been adopted on each of these hospital units, including the State Hospital, and the Socialist Party Government has never fulfilled what Parliament has approved in relation to health care in the district. It is, therefore, fundamental that it begins to fulfill.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u47	We have thus concluded this item on our agenda. We will move on to point 3, which consists of the joint discussion of Petition No 59 / XIV / 1. a ( Márcia Alexandra Magalhães Rosa Teixeira et al.) — Access of partners-managers to the layoff regime and, in general, of the Bill No 635 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Support for independent partners and workers. To present the initiative of the CDS-PP, Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira has the palate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by congratulating and congratulating the petitioners and saying that the CDS agrees with the spirit of the petition as regards the support of layoff to the management partners. In fact, we agree with what is written in the petition itself, i.e. that much already exists as support, however, we believe that more must be done. The fact is that in March last year we were all surprised by a pandemic that led the country, first, to a health crisis, then to an economic crisis and then to a social crisis. We cannot ignore that being a government in such a difficult period, as it is obvious, and in a very adverse context, has been and is a difficult task, but from the very first moment the CDS has warned that it is necessary not only to support the economy but also to protect employment, but we have had problems with these support, that is, we had problems with bureaucracy in the moratoriums, with difficulties in access to credit and with the delay and implementation of the layoff itself. We have also warned about the need for substantial support lost. They came, it's true, but they came too late. The question that we should put today in this debate is the following: if companies had been supported, if they had been followed another way, if things had been conducted differently, how many companies could have saved from insolvency? Only in 2020, there was an increase of more than 30 % of the number of insolvencys compared to the same period. This penalises the economy, increases unemployment and protects families. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we heard Mr Minister for Economic Affairs say that the measures to support the economy and employment have worked so far. We can say: it is true that these measures have worked for some, but it is also true that these measures have not worked for all. For many months, the management partners had been without support, without measures, i.e. they had been voted upon until August for complete abandonment. Managers still need help and this CDS bill brings justice to independent partners and workers. But it is also necessary to bring justice to all those who have started an activity, to all those who have constituted their company, who have invested in their business and who have done so at the end of 2019 or at the beginning of 2020 and who today, in view of the rules that exist, have no support, have no recourse to them and see their dream become a real nightmare. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this debate we must not forget the following: we must not forget, on the part of the Government, the many announcements, PowerPoints, studies, diagnoses, the various programmes, that is, we must not forget what was the enormous socialist propaganda. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the country does not need propaganda; the country needs help, the country needs effective support! I want to take this opportunity to pay tribute to all those who are entrepreneurs and are able to overcome this crisis, those who, with enormous resilience and enormous sacrifice, are able to keep jobs, who can maintain their activity and are thus contributing to the country's economy. But not only: we must also remember, for example, the case of accountants who, every week, have to deal with new legislation and tough measures that are emerging, in all manner and manners, and who are, too, a support to entrepreneurs and our companies. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I end with a word of hope, so that the Socialist Party can approve this draft law of the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u49	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u50	I'm done now, Mr. President. This is a bill that, as I said recently, brings justice, precisely, to partners-managers and independent workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u51	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to devote this free minute to all the independent partners and workers who have been forgotten during the first strike. in this statisticizing regime that the PS mounted, doing for life without being entangled with the state, perhaps, also became antipatriotic, criminal or, who knows, part of an international conspiracy. Only to the sixth revision of the Layoff regime and support systems, with much insistence from the Liberal Initiative and other parties, is that their situation has become considered in an expeditious manner, by filling out a form in direct social security attesting to the failure to invoicing. But that was in 2020, because in 2021, it returned the Kafkian maze to which this government has already used us. Look at that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, you can follow the logic this year. Support for independent partners and workers only applies to the businesses that the government has ordered to close by decree. The others are going to support the recovery. In support of the recovery, the management partners are only supported if the company has workers. The others go to extraordinary support for the income of self-employed. As extraordinary support for the income of independent workers requires a condition of resources, it is only available if the family aggregate — the aggregate! — have income of less than € 501. The others go... I don't even know where the others go! What I know is this is wrong. Making it better to ask to be closed by decree than trying to keep some activity is wrong. Making those who work alone get punished is wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u53	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u54	To say that we leave no one behind and then forget these people just because they have no trade unions or party card is wrong, deeply wrong, and if no one else talks about them, we talk about them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u55	Mr Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the petitioners for bringing this issue to debate. When this petition was submitted — and it is important to bear this in mind — the members-managers of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, representing 99, 9 % of Portuguese business fabric, faced a serious socio-economic crisis due to confinement, without any support at the time being provided to them. This support was delayed and for another month since the beginning of the first confinement was ignored by the Government, which did not offer them any answer. The NAP therefore proposed, on 4 April, that the management partners could alternatively access the support recognised by the simplified layoff scheme or the support that existed at the time for independent workers. on that occasion, it is recalled that the PSD said these supports were « folklore parliamentary », joining the PS to lead this proposal of the NAP. But the NAP did not lower its arms and brought the same proposal again, at a time when the political forces had finally begun to wake up to this reality, and managed to adopt by a large majority an initiative that would come to answer, even if not adequately, this question. Even so, the initiative at the time deserved the vote against the PS, which came to threaten with an appeal to the Constitutional Court. Despite the vast majority consensualized by this Parliament, the President of the Republic has vetoed the diploma approved by the Assembly of the Republic for the understanding that the partners could wait for the Supplementary Budget to have effective support, as if the shopping cart or family expenses could rest until better days. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the support worthy of the management partners has been recognised in the Supplementary Budget Act at the end of July, more than five months since the beginning of the health crisis and four months after the first rejection of the NAP proposal brought here. This expectation is unacceptable and demonstrates a huge disrespect for these people. As if disrespect was not enough, the government itself had delays in the implementation of the measure, due to the bureaucratic mesh of requests for support, and many of these people only received support at the end of the year. This situation is unacceptable, so we hope that the government and other political forces have realized that slowness and bureaucracy do not remain urgently where we live, which must overcome the concerns that — often under constitutional support — are brought here. The State budget of 2021 has come to provide important support, approved by the NAP itself, but now in the implementation of these provisions, the Government must act with urgency and the speed it deserves, avoiding bureaucracy. We also believe that we can go further in the area of the extension of successive layoff support simplified to these people, but we recognize the progress made. As for the CDS-PP proposal under discussion, in order to ensure that the cessation of activity allowance and the termination of professional activity allowance are not below the value of the poverty threshold, we believe that it is a more than just measure, so we will follow it. However, we stress that this measure has a moratorium that seems to us to be incomprehensible. In fact, only when it enters into force in 2022,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u57	You can't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u58	... it seems to us that we do not respond to the emergency present and, therefore, in the field of expertise, we will not fail to present a proposal for an amendment to mitigate this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u59	For an intervention, Mrs Ofélia Ramos, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the thousands of subscribers of the petition that we have discussed, which is of the greatest importance, because it expresses a set of concerns concerning partners, pointing out the need for them to be supported by the government in the context of measures to mitigate the effects of the pandemic crisis. The PSD accompanies these concerns because, in addition to fair, they are appropriate, in view of the renewal of the state of emergency and the new restrictive measures arising there. Mrs. Members, on the basis of ideological prejudice, the Government has repeatedly ignored the difficult situation of partners and, therefore, the PSD has come to give voice to its demands and will continue to do so until the government is free of prejudice and supports those who generate wealth and promote employment. As time passes, under the bad aggressors of the pandemic, the country defines and the economy sinks, dragging thousands of companies into insolvency and thousands of workers into unemployment. The measures put forward by the Government to support businesses, workers and families have failed so far. This statement is not mere political rhetoric, it is a reality realized by all those who need the support of the State at such a difficult time as what we are living in. The measures have failed because: the support is insufficient and does not meet the existing needs; the demanding bureaucracy prevents access to such support; the delays in the allocation and payment of such support are constant; the measures are implemented late and do not reach businesses and people on time. This is an example of delays in payment of extraordinary support for reducing economic activity to thousands of self-employed, entrepreneurs and managers, and also delays in the allocation of extraordinary social protection support for workers, which, in fact, caused censorship to the Government, in the form of a recommendation, by the Ombudsman. By 2021, the Government has already approved a package of measures aimed at companies and workers, but we find that once again thousands and thousands of self-employed workers and partners who are discounted for social security are excluded from such support. With the escalation of the pandemic crisis, the government should strengthen its support, but it is precisely the opposite. In 2021, extraordinary support for the reduction of economic activity will have a lower scope than in 2020, as it will only be for those whose activities have been suspended or closed by legal or administrative determination. In other words, those who have turnover breaks, including 100 % breaks, but whose activities are no longer part of the role of suspended or closed activities, no longer have access to this support and, in these situations, they can only resort to extraordinary support for workers' income, provided they fulfil the condition of resources now imposed by the Government in the regulation of support. That is, the government has reduced the world of beneficiaries of support, leaving out thousands of independent workers and managers who received extraordinary aid by 2020. In other words, the government is selling cats for hare, deceiving those who so need the support of the state. After great resistance, the Government has now included the management partners in extraordinary support for progressive recovery, but only if they have employees. The government repeats the mistakes of a recent past, which, in addition to being incomprehensible, is unfair in view of the worsening pandemic situation, in particular because we are talking about those who make discounts for social security, such as the other workers, and who are now without any social protection. The CDS-PP initiative, which we discussed, aims to increase the minimum limit on unemployment benefit to be extended to the end-of-activity allowance and to the end-of-work allowance. That is to say, the rules currently applied to unemployment benefit are also applied to the protection of unemployment for self-employed workers and management partners. The negative differentiation that the Government has already used to us in relation to partners and self-employed workers is incomprehensible, especially if we take into account that these cessation of activity subsidies have longer warranty periods than those required under the unemployment benefit. Given the welfare nature of these subsidies, where social protection in the unemployment of these workers is financed through contributions paid by themselves, it is even more incomprehensible that the government does not guarantee social protection above the poverty threshold.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u61	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u62	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the government must look at everyone and everyone in the same way, without ideological prejudices about those who generate wealth and promote employment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u63	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us welcome the more than 34 000 citizens who have submitted this petition to the Assembly of the Republic and let me remind you of some relevant facts for this debate. On April 3, 2020, the CFP submitted Bill No. 318 / XIV / 1. a with exceptional measures to protect micro- and small-enterprises from the breakdown of income in the context of the outbreak, including independent workers. Despite their contribution to social security, these layers were excluded from the first social protection measures decided by the Government. The CFP proposed that the income of the statutory members of the companies in a situation of business crisis should be guaranteed. Support was expected to have as a minimum the value of the IAS (indicating social support) and at most the value of the national minimum wage. The CFP initiative has been rejected — I repeat, it has been rejected! — with the votes against the PS and the PSD and the abstentions of the CDS and the Arrival. On 20 April, we asked the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security about the exclusion of partners from access to support created by the government for lack of form on the social security website. We never got an answer. On 29 April, we introduced Bill No. 347 / XIV / 1. the, which created support for the income of microenterprises and individual entrepreneurs, with the minimum value of the IAS and calculated according to the incomes of the previous year. It was rejected with the votes against the PS and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS. At the end of May 2020, almost three months after the outbreak of the epidemic, after the adoption of a joint text of the Committee on Economic Affairs resulting from the specialization process of the draft laws of the Greens, the PSD and the PAN, this House approved a diploma which was subsequently vetoed by the President of the Republic. With a view to overcoming the veto, we presented as an amendment to the Supplementary Budget the same text that was adopted in the Assembly of the Republic and a proposal which resumed the CFP proposal. In the middle of the vote, the PSD changed its proposal and presented a more backward proposal, which was finally approved. The Supplementary Budget was published on 24 July 2020, more than four months since the outbreak. On 9 October, we asked the Minister of Labour about the restrictions that the Government created in publishing access to support, in particular by providing the form for only seven days, and because the partners who benefited from the social security contribution exemption were excluded during the period when the company was in simplified layoff, and could not access the support for that period. We never got an answer. In the discussion of the State Budget of 2021, we presented the proposal for addendum 535 - C to extend the support that had been approved in the Supplementary Budget for the whole year 2021, repealing the limited duration of six months that had been approved. It was rejected with the vote against the PS and the abstention of the PSD. In the meantime, the PSD had its proposal approved, counting on the vote in favour of the CFP. This approval essentially included the management partners in the extraordinary support for workers' income. On 12 December, we again questioned the Minister of Labour about the need to restore support for partners, reaffirming the need for support not to be withdrawn or suspended in the following months and for 2021, once again without any answer. This debate is the result of the initiative launched by these small and micro-enterprises, who addressed the Assembly of the Republic with this petition. It is a debate that we value and that must have correspondence in the concrete decisions and measures that the Government must develop, consequently and effectively. In addition to the support that is essential to ensure, it is essential to prevent and prevent such situations from reaching the end of the business activity, the closure of the company, etc. But, Mr. President and Mr. Members, these debates are also moments of accountability and accountability. The CFP has always made a commitment to contribute constructively to the answers to the problems facing the country, in this case to micro and small enterprises. We have always been on the side of the solution and not on the side of the problem. But we must not forget that it would be another situation for these partners if the proposal of the CFP had been approved in April, and not led by the vote of the PS, the PSD, the CDS and the Arrival. There is coherence, responsibility and seriousness and respect and concrete answers to people's problems. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u65	Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecological Party, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Greens, the first words are to welcome the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition we are now discussing and who are calling for the access of members-managers to the Layoff regime. However, as at the time of the entry of this petition, in April last year, the Greens denounced the support measures then established, leaving out thousands of workers because they were partners-managers at the same time. It was precisely with the aim of removing this injustice that the Greens also presented, in April last year, a proposal that intended to extend support to workers who, at the same time, were partners-managers. But this proposal would be rejected and, curiously, it did not deserve the favourable vote by the CDS-PP, which abstained and which today brings us to discussion a proposal for support for the partners-managers, with an amendment to the State budget for 2021, but which only enters into force with the State budget for 2022, certainly with regard to «the law-work ». Subsequently, the Government would extend extraordinary support for reducing the economic activity of self-employed persons. However, this support continued with two injustices: on the one hand, because it excluded managers/workers from small businesses who had employees on their own and, on the other, because it only included companies which had an invoice of less than 60 thousand euros in the previous year, which drastically reduced the universe of small enterprises covered. In other words, small businesses with one or two workers could use temporary support, but the manager who was simultaneously employed and who, in this quality paid their taxes and contributions, had no access to the measure, without any income. in this context, in addition to the injustice that this situation has potentiated, it also represented a penalty for those who create jobs. In any case, what is true is that micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have recently expressed, on an initiative promoted by the Confederation of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, a great concern about how the government is managing the issue of support, from the outset because partners without workers only got 6 months of support, and in the four months that they did not receive such support, they were obliged to pay the TSU (one social rate) as a whole, under the penalty of being left out of new support. On the other hand, companies created in 2020 do not have access to any support, since they do not have a history of comparing the breakdown. There are cases, in fact, where, by the death of the partner-manager, the spouse took over management and, in these cases, there is no place for any support. Finally, the APOIAR Programme continues with rules that limit access to income support by companies that have simplified accounting, i.e. unorganized accounting. Therefore, these and other injustices must be removed and for which the Government must look very urgently, in order to avoid further closures of companies and all the consequences arising there, particularly at the level of unemployment. [[Congrats from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u67	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, the Left Block Parliamentary Group obviously wants to welcome more than 30 000 people who have signed this petition, which has also emerged in the first phase of the pandemic. At that time too—and so around April—we raised the question of non-access by partners-managers to the support that were being implemented at the time. In fact, it was in this sense that in April we proposed that the management partners could be included in the extraordinary support for the maintenance of employment contracts, in the case of up to 10 employees, a proposal which was rejected in the Assembly of the Republic. Later, and, as has already been mentioned, after a long legislative process, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the fact that, with some broad consensus, a diploma came out, which was intended to respond, already a few months late, to this situation, which was vetoed by the President of the Republic. So it is not too much to remember that in this process the President of the Republic also helped prevent these support from arriving early where they were needed. But there too we did not give up and insist, in the Supplementary Budget, precisely because we thought there were thousands of micro-enterprises who, not rarely, have only one or two workers, and one of them is also a partner-manager and also ends up being a worker, with their obligations, from the point of view of social security. We therefore felt that, as in the seemingly wide consensus that existed, it did not make sense to leave out of this support, for so many months, so many thousands of partners-managers. However, and despite this supposed broad consensus, it would still take more time to include partners-managers in some support. In addition, this has been one of the most unfortunate features of many of the government's economic and employment support: the maturity in being executed, the successive delays in reaching people and businesses and the exclusion of too many people from those same support. The integration of management partners into extraordinary support within the framework of the COVID-19 effectively arrived late. It was late and, worse than that, the door for this extension to 2021 still needs to be published. Therefore, we continue to consider that, if the support itself was no longer sufficient, as if it had been demonstrated, this insistence on continuing not to include partners-managers only harms thousands of workers. This has been demonstrated both by the fact that, for example — these figures are very recent — they have emerged about two days ago — the number of failures in the third quarter of 2020 increased by 40 % in Portugal for the same period of the previous year according to Eurostat data. In fact, the same body indicates that these are the support measures that have prevented more failures. This is relevant because it tells us that the Government would have wanted to go further in the support that has been approved, more proposals for support, that the Left Block Parliamentary Group itself has been presenting since March-April, had been approved, the longer we would have come and less failures, of course we could have at this time. Unfortunately, what this data indicates is that we need more, support needs to be faster, there needs to be less confusion throughout this process, there needs to be greater predictability — this issue is very relevant — and answers that start to think, from now on, of those who, in a few months' time, should start to return the amount of support they asked for in April, when there is no clear conditions yet to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u69	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u70	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, in the Left Block Parliamentary Group, we continue to strive to improve all existing support, to propose measures to help all workers, who also help the management partners, who have been there for too many months, almost a year, without any guarantee. From that point of view, you will always have the Left Block Parliamentary Group to go further. We need to know whether the Government and the Socialist Party want to do so. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u71	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What has happened to the management partners is essentially a failure by ideological prejudice. That's what happened. We are not even talking about lack of means or lack of organization. It's ideological prejudice! We have heard that many of these managers will have to return the layoff exemptions if they ask for support for the billing break, with retroactive ones, and we already know that when we arrive at this debate, which is the first of the inconsistencies of this history. The second is the limits of invoicing and the number of workers which the Socialist Government has managed to impose on whom it should be supported as a partner-manager. Basically, we said that 'yes, sir, we will support', but then we put a number of requirements that, in practice, force them to return the support or put them off the support list. There are thousands, I risk saying hundreds of thousands, those who are out of the Socialist Party's support lists. But it was also important to realize, today, why the support for turnover breaks, with retroactive ones, has been so problematic, when they point out the example of Germany or Austria, that they have actually wagered in these dimensions by supporting companies that have had turnover breaks. Why aren't they able to do exactly the same thing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u73	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u74	I shall conclude, Mr President. These are citizens who have paid taxes in recent years, who have contributed to the economy, whatever it is, and the Socialist Party has no longer given them what lists behind lists, requirements behind requirements, requirements behind demands, which have taken no part. Today, it is a good day for us to make history, and a good story in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u75	Mr José Rui Cruz, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u76	Mr President, I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Members and I begin by greeting the thousands of subscribers of the petition we are discussing today: We discuss Petition No 59 / XIV / 1. the, which has as its first petitioner Ms. Márcia Alexandra Teixeira and has more than 34,000 signatures. This petition entered into the Commission in April 2020 and petitioners point out that small business partners are themselves workers of these organisations and have been excluded from the simplified layoff scheme that was created to support companies during the COVID-19 pandemic. They consider it worthy and fair to be granted the exemption from taxes and social security and the allocation of a monthly value, corresponding to the national minimum wage, for the extended period of the crisis. We also discussed the Bill No. 635 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Support for independent partners and workers. As the CDS points out in the explanatory statement of its draft law, "as a consequence of the pandemic, because of restrictions on movement and health prevention, there have been many impacts on the most various economic sectors, having been experienced difficulties in the productivity and financial sustainability of business in all dimensions". At the beginning of this year, the Government presented an extended package of measures aimed at meeting the needs of companies, managers and self-employed workers, including: extraordinary support for workers' income, proposed by the Socialist Party and approved in the State budget for 2021, which aims to ensure the continuity of income of persons in particular protection under the COVID-19 and which is aimed at workers on behalf of another, who complete the unemployment allowance and the social unemployment allowance in 2021, and self-employed or members of statutory bodies who end the occupational termination allowance in 2021 and whose activities are subject to the obligation to close; support for workers on behalf of another or economically dependent selfemployed persons who are involuntary unemployment, without access to unemployment benefits; support also for self-employed or domestic workers whose activities are subject to the obligation to close; support for workers on behalf of other or self-employed persons who are economically dependent workers who are employed in a situation without access to unemployment benefits; support for self-employed workers or domestic service workers with 40 % of income and also for micro- This support guarantees the protection of workers and managers and members of statutory bodies, going to meet, and even further, than the petitioners claim. Other important measures to ensure the sustainability of workers and businesses - it is important to stress - at this site and at this point - are: the extension of support for the progressive recovery of micro- and medium-sized enterprises, which includes the reduction of social contributions and the maintenance of the full remuneration of workers without additional effort from enterprises; the simplified support for micro-enterprises with more than 25 % turnover, which can range up to two national minimum wages per employee; the requalification of employees under the APOIAR.PT Programme; the extension and flexibility of the APOIAR Programme, in particular for medium-sized enterprises and enterprises with more than 250 employees but less than 50 million euros of turnover and entrepreneurs on an individual name without organised accounting; the reduction of restrictions on own capital; the approval of applications of companies with social security and the Tax Authority, provided that they are subject to the condition of regularisation; and the increase of the APOIAR Programme for establishments closed since March. Important measures are also to support the lease, taxation and financing of companies, which stand out: fund support for the payment of income to companies with turnover breaks of 25 % to 40 % and also other support for breaks of more than 40 %; creation of credit lines for tenants and owners; creation of several credit lines for various sectors of activity, with a fund lost for export and event activities; deferment of VAT (tax on value added) monthly and quarterly of the first half of 2021; suspension of executions of the Tax Authority and social security in the first half; creation of a treasury fund for micro and small enterprises; extension of the Portuguese tourism microcredit to small businesses and support the qualification of tourism offer. These are not minor measures, they are designed to mitigate the impact of the crisis on the lives of businesses, entrepreneurs and workers, as comprehensive as possible. Until then, we will have to be resilient and adjust our efforts and abilities every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u77	The joint debate on Petition No 59 / XIV / 1. a and draft Law No 635 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), we will proceed to the joint discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 282 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen training in palliative care in Portugal, 284 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government urgently strengthen beds and palliative care teams in order to ensure national coverage in both hospital and household services, 253 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government extend the public response to palliative care, 256 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — By extending palliative care, 291 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthen the state response in the area of palliative care and 304 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the national palliative care network and support for patients, their families and informal caregivers in a specific context of palliative care. To present the draft resolutions of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A recent survey by GfK ( Growth from Knowledge ) and Express revealed that there is a general lack of knowledge about palliative care, because for many respondents they reduce either the application of morphine or a way to shorten life. So it may be important to start with the principle. Palliative care was defined by the World Health Organization ( WHO ) in 2002 as, and I quote, « an approach that improves the quality of life of patients and their families, who face problems associated with serious, advanced or progressive diseases, through prevention and relief of suffering due to early identification, prevention and strict treatment of pain and other physical, psychosocial and spiritual problems». With this definition, a model of shared care between palliative care and medical specialties has been highlighted since early stages of disease and should be made available long before the proximity of death, sometimes years before. In the autumn report of 2019, the Portuguese Observatory of Palliative Care exposed that access to these care, as a right enshrined in the Law of Bases of Palliative Care and the Law of People's Rights in Context of Advanced Disease and End of Life, is still a mirage. The universal coverage of palliative care in our country is far from being achieved, with deep asymmetries, both geographically and at the level of types of care. In 2018, about 102 000 adult patients and about 8,000 children needed palliative care, but only 25% of adults and 0.01% of children had effective access. There are regions in the country without coverage in hospital services and in home palliative care the national coverage is only 32%. And most of the health professionals who provide this care are not exclusively dedicated, there is only one physician for all-time palliative care in a third of the services. We know that much of the health budget of the Western countries—and Portugal is no exception—is spent on the care provided during the last year of life of the patients; we know that sometimes there is a disparity between the patient's situation and the proposed measures for healing; we know that the higher or lesser training of physicians in palliative care influences this choice and we also know that this can lead to unnecessary and avoidable suffering in the end-of-life patients. For all this, the CDS has repeated — and has had an impact on legislative initiatives — the importance of access to palliative care for all those who need it, as a right of increasing importance and scope in the 21st century. The Government has also stated that palliative care is 'a priority', but in practice we do not see them implemented, nor in accordance with the very plans that the government approves but fails and then protects it. And it's not just us who checked it out. The former Chairman of the National Committee on Palliative Care, Dr. Edna Gonçalves, recently said: « In 2020, we should have 54 community teams and we have 26 (... ). Throughout the country, there are only 384 beds in palliative care. (...) Teams do not arrive. There was no reinforcement, on the contrary, until there was a need for professionals to be relocated to the COVID-19 teams". During the pandemic, a lot of palliative follow-up was done by telephone. We cannot live well with this if we know what the reality of these patients and their caregivers is. « We did not get to everything», said Dr. Edna Gonçalves. We didn't get to everything, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We failed. That is why the CDS comes back here today, insisting, with two initiatives, that this Parliament should recommend to the Government that it seek to ensure access to palliative care for all the patients who need it, throughout the country, that to this end it should set up hospital teams and community support teams in palliative care, with human resources trained in palliative medicine and nursing, by convening other professionals and ensuring the appropriate time of care. The CDS-PP does not give up sick people and in the end of life, specialized and differentiated care to which they are entitled, nor does it give up their families. And in the 21st century, today more than ever, we must give effective and thorough response to these people and their caregivers, so that their dignity may also be defended.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u79	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Palliative care is not second care! They are not second-rate or can be secondary!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u81	But they did!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u82	However, long ago they have been secondary, long before the pandemic, and now, with the pandemic, the situation has worsened considerably. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to palliative care, it has become even more urgent to define and implement a serious and consequent strategy that responds to the needs of seriously ill, dependent people who are mostly in the end of life. With the pandemic, many palliative care services were closed to be transformed into COVID medicine services. With the pandemic, the professionals specialists in palliative care were mobilized for COVID services, leaving the palliative patient and their families completely abandoned, when they should be on the front line in response to the palliative patient’s person and family and therefore with severe and advanced disease, COVID and non-COVID, which lacks palliative care. The patient's family with palliative needs, today, lost the little specialized attention they already had, lost access to specialized care and diluted this patient among the patients COVID and not COVID. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We must not forget that the patient who needs palliative care is also affected with COVID-19, so we should take advantage of specialized professionals to care for the patient with palliative needs. An integrated strategy is needed in all health services, which also responds to social needs. We have to understand, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, people with palliative needs are everywhere. Therefore, in addition to the lack of responses in palliative care, whether in hospitalization units or in community and intra-hospital teams, there is a lack of strategy, I say again, serious and consequent. There is a lack of a strategy where palliative care is actively participating, being in the front line and next to caring for a person with palliative needs. In fact, there is no one who determines this strategy and puts it into practice. this is an example of the fact that there is no national committee for palliative care appointed. But the bottom line is the lack of investment in the National Palliative Care Network. We may even have the best strategy in the world, but without means, without resources, without dedicated professionals it is not possible to implement it. Mrs. Members, once again, the CFP alerts that, for palliative care teams, either in hospitals or in health centres, it is not enough to raise them in the paper. More training is needed, therefore, more specialists, it is also necessary to train other health professionals, so that they can articulate themselves with the specialists and that they are able to do their work. Therefore, the PCP presented a draft resolution in which it advocates the need to expand and improve the Palliative Care Network and other public services in the relief of pain and suffering of people who live with and are affected by diseases that limit their lives. This draft resolution recommends to the Government to recommend that the Government: recognise to people with serious and advanced and advanced and progressive and progressive diseases and/or advanced and progressive the right to free choice between hospital admission or community care; recommend to the Government that the Government should: recognise to people with serious and advanced and progressive and progressive and progressive the right to free choice between hospital admission or community care ; recommend to the Government the Government of this draft resolution recommend to the Government: to recognise people with serious and advanced and progressive and progressive and progressive and progressive the right to free choice between hospital admission or community care ; to provide the inpatient units and community and intra- and intra-ho hospital units of sufficient and adequate human resources and intra-hocare facilities and within hospitals and community and intra-hocare units and community teams of care, providing adequate and full-time, full-time and an integrated care community care teams and community care teams and a social worker; create 100 Community Support Community Support Support Teams in Public Care Support Support and strengthens the public response capacity of the National Network of the National Network of Peace Care Care Care Care Network by 2022 by the end of 2022 with, with, with, at the end of 2022 with, with, with, at least, a total, a total of 900 beds of 900 beds, and conditions; and provide and provide for all conditions; and provide; provide; strengthen; strengthen; strengthen and provide; strengthen and provide; strengthen and provide; strengthen; strengthen; strengthen and provide; strengthen; strengthen; strengthen and provide; strengthen; strengthen; strengthen the security; strengthen the security; strengthen; strengthen and ensure; strengthen the security; strengthen and ensure; strengthen and ensure; strengthen and ensure; strengthen and ensure and ensure; strengthen and ensure and ensure; strengthen the security; strengthen the resources; strengthen the resources and ensure and ensure and ensure and ensure and ensure and ensure and ensure and ensure and ensure; ensure and ensure and ensure and ensure; ensure; ensure and ensure and ensure and ensure and ensure and ensure and ensure; ensure; ensure; ensure; ensure and ensure and ensure and ensure; ensure; ensure and ensure; ensure; ensure; ensure; ensure and ensure; ensure and ensure and ensure and ensure and ensure; ensure; ensure; ensure and ensure and ensure; ensure; ensure; ensure; ensure and ensure and ensure and ensure and ensure; ensure; ensure and ensure; ensure; ensure; ensure and ensure; ensure; ensure; ensure; ensure; ensure Palliative care for people with palliative needs and their families has always existed and therefore the need for their protection has not been born today, nor with the COVID-19, but has worsened and goes far beyond. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u83	To present the draft resolution of the IL, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Access to palliative care is of such importance that in the opinion of the Liberal Initiative it should be guaranteed even by the Constitution itself. But while everyone recognizes this importance, there is a great way to go from the theory of words and the government's promises to practice that ensure that any Portuguese has access to palliative care if they need it again. The current pandemic has only aggravated, as we all know, this situation. There are today more people in need of prevention and relief of suffering, adequate treatment of their physical and mental ills. There are more people in need of help for problems that COVID-19 brought and that isolation has exacerbated. There are more people suffering from the postponement of surgeries, treatments and consultations. And there are those who suffer, because everything sacrifices to care for these people: their families, their caregivers and health professionals. The State, in the hands of a Government supported by a left-wing majority, spends on what it should not, opts for flying money, approves public investment without criterion or return and then says that it has no money for the essential, such as palliative care and the health of Portuguese. Only a few weeks from now will be completed the first palliative care unit in Leiria district, that of the Hospital de Alcobaça. Several other districts, even the older ones and therefore more prone to chronic diseases, have not even the first unit. The situation is repeated a little across the country. If the proposal which the Liberal Initiative brings here today was already essential when it presented it last year, it is now urgent in view of the effects of the pandemic. The Strategic Plan for the Development of Palliative Care must be thoroughly reformulated: strictly budgeted, detailedly calendarled, effectively implemented and with clearly assigned responsibilities according to the new needs that the pandemic has brought. It is necessary to ensure national and universal coverage of these care in accordance with best international practices. And with consensus, as I believe there is, on this matter, such will not happen unless the Socialist Government continues to consider that it is more important to spend money on planes. It's not more important. What is most important is to increase the number of beds on the National Network of Integrated Continued Care and specifically palliative care units. It is more important to ensure the training of professionals working in this area. It is more important to mobilize and encourage the efforts of the social sector to create new beds. There are people suffering, health can't wait.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u85	You have the floor to present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Respecting each person's choices for the end of his life is an expression of the primacy of tolerance in a pluralistic society. For the Left Block it is unequivocal that the same respect is due to those who choose a end of life marked by suffering and pain, who choose a end of life marked by the prevention and limitation of pain and suffering through palliative approaches and to those who choose a end of life not involved in either of these conditions and decide, free and consciously, to anticipate their death so that it may be so. It is the choice of each person in this regard that must prevail, and the State has the obligation to create conditions for the three possibilities to be realized. It is in this perspective that the provision of palliative care by the National Health Service is strengthened. Not being exclusive care of any generation, it is evident that the aging of the population and the diseases associated with it, especially those of the oncological forum and degenerative ones, make the need to increase the supply of palliative care an imperative for our health systems. In Portugal, the realization of this increase takes place scandalously in all the different contexts of the provision of these care, from within the framework of the National Network of Continuous Integrated Care, where the lack of beds for palliative care is manifest. But it is undeniable that this deficit is also recorded in hospitals and primary health care. The most recent numbers available indicate that in palliative care units in the hospital, beds affected by these care are less than half what they should be. And these numbers show either a manifest lack of universal coverage of palliative care throughout the national territory, with several districts without home palliative care delivery teams, or a very poor performance intensity, with a full-time physician for palliative care only in a third of the services in which these care is provided. Faced with this reality, and committed as it is that everyone has an effective right to see their choices respected for the end of their lives, the Left Block, to achieve the goal defined in the Strategic Plan for the Development of Palliative Care, has approved in the State Budget for 2020 a proposal for its operation of a community palliative care support team in each ACES ( Grouping of Health Centres ) and a palliative care unit in all hospital and university centres and in all delegations of the IPO ( Portuguese Institute of Oncology ). This commitment by the Government was far from being fully met. The Left Block therefore insists that these outbreaks be hit. In addition, the Block proposes the significant increase of beds in palliative care units of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care. And in order to strengthen logistics the effects of strengthening the incorporation of palliative care in the National Health Service the Left Block includes in its proposal the offer of specific and continuous training of professionals who work in the provision of palliative care and, as well, the offer of cross-sectional training to all health professionals, who familiarize them with the needs of providing these care, with various degrees of complexity. in these days, in which the strengthening of the National Health Service is the priority of the priorities of our democracy, palliative care must be an essential element of this strengthening. The pandemic cannot be alibi to reduce any of the approaches to combating suffering and pain that coexist in a pluralistic society, as is, fortunately, ours. With this spirit, the Left Block joins everyone who fights for a quantitative and qualitatively adequate offer of palliative care in our National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u87	To present the PSD draft resolution, Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today a topic of greater importance for the country, palliative care. The Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party, as author of one of the draft resolutions under consideration today, welcomes from now on the other parties that have presented initiatives in this area, from the CDS to the CFP, naturally passing through the Liberal Initiative and the Left Block. These parties marked presence in this debate, presenting their proposals and their view on palliative care in Portugal. It is unfortunate that the Socialist Party does not come to this debate by presenting its proposals on palliative care, which is also understood — given the total lack of investment in enlargement and strengthening the palliative care network over the past five years. The result is that the number of palliative care beds has hardly increased in the last five years, continuing to go beyond one third of the needs. The consequence of the lack of reinforcement of the network is also the grueling shortage of professionals dedicated to the provision of palliative care, which, among doctors, nurses, psychologists and social workers, do not go beyond a seventh of the necessary, and of these, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, only a small portion is devoted exclusively to this care. Who says it is not the PSD, but the most recent data from the Portuguese Observatory of Palliative Care. But these serious inadequacies have been further aggravated in the last year, since the country has plunged into the current pandemic crisis, since palliative care, of course, cannot be provided remotely by telephone contact. But that was it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the way in which palliative care professionals are allocated to the COVID-19 that the Government has privileged. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, through its draft resolution, which is being discussed today, the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party recommends that the Government strengthen the national palliative care network and support for patients, their families and informal caregivers in a specific context of palliative care. I remember that, according to recent estimates of the Portuguese Observatory of Palliative Care, there are in our country about 110,000 people in need of palliative care, a number in which almost 8,000 children are included. I also recall that it is estimated that, on the basis of the above data, the national accessibility rate for palliative care does not exceed 23 %, which means, Mrs and Mrs. Members, that in every four patients they need less than one of them has access to. This situation is simply unacceptable and we therefore consider increasingly pressing that the Government strengthens the number of beds of the national palliative care network, which guarantees the effective existence of the Intra-Hospital Support Teams in Palliative Care, many of which, Mrs and Mrs. Members, there are only in the role, and that increases the number of Community Support Teams in Palliative Care, which is still far from the international goal of 100 teams for the country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these are just some of the PSD proposals on palliative care. We cannot resign from a humanist society that cares for and treats. And that is why this discussion that we are doing today should have been held before last Friday's discussion on euthanasia. Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he has shown to have the changed agendas: he preferred to discuss first the death of assisted medicine rather than palliative care. Article 3 ( 6 ). that of the text adopted on euthanasia — the text we have adopted here — states that, and I quote, '...the patient is always guaranteed, wishing, access to palliative care'. Therefore, this matter should be settled and it is not. This provision is of a greater scope, insofar as it cannot fail to represent to the Government an irreconcilable obligation immediately to increase the palliative care network. And that should have been taken care of if you naturally want to comply with the law adopted here in Parliament. What the new regime of assisted death will, of course, enshrine — if it enters into force — to be fully fulfilled is that the provision of palliative care should, in the short term, achieve sufficient in our country. [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Pedrosa.]] And that means that Portugal needs 800 to 1000 palliative care beds, fulfilling the ratio of 80 to 100 beds per million inhabitants. It's not enough, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to extend the number of beds, as the Government proposes every year and does not comply. It is now up to the Socialist Party to show how serious it is in this debate and to what extent it wants to influence its government in order to increase the capacity of the palliative care network, bearing in mind only the words of the President of the Portuguese Palliative Care Association here, in this Parliament, less than one year ago, when he said: "All is missing. It is very little done and there is much to be done». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u89	You now have the floor for an intervention by the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unfortunately, our country's response to palliative patients is clearly insufficient, full of inconsistencies and discrimination; it is also non-existent in some territories of our country. What we say is based on facts. We remember the 2019 Autumn Report and DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ) data of January 2021 : Portugal has less than 384 beds than those recommended by the European Palliative Care Association, offering only a coverage rate of 50 % at the level of national needs of palliative care units. In addition to this insufficient coverage, it also does not correspond to the current needs of each territory and therefore requires a reassessment, a realignment of resources, according to these same needs. For example, in Leiria and Viana do Castelo there are no palliative care beds, with other cases such as Bragança, Castelo Branco and Coimbra, which have coverage rates of 120 %. If we look at the beds by typologies, acute and non-acute, we again check strong asymmetries. In the acute, only 11 of the 18 districts have such beds, some of them with coverage rates exceeding 100 %; in the non-acute, 10 districts do not even have such beds. There are no arguments against the facts. Also the Community Palliative Care Support Teams, which are essential in supporting patients who need to stay at home, have, in addition to the care provided to patients, a key role in supporting family members and caregivers. And as a result of the COVID-19, we know that the need for their intervention is even greater. These teams and professionals are fundamental to providing advice to general clinicians, family doctors and nurses, among others, and are considered, Ms. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic stone of an adequate health care network. But at least this "basestone" seems to be broken, because the reality we have is only 24 Community Support Teams in Palliative Care for the entire national territory. We have a coverage rate of only 28 % of the expected needs according to the European Palliative Care Association. Also in the Community support teams, asymmetries between districts are more than obvious. In conclusion, I want to say that we will, of course, follow the proposals presented here, by simply safeguarding that for the NAP, all elements of these teams are essential and not only part of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u91	You now have the floor for an intervention by the ENP, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a series of legislative initiatives around a decisive matter in a rule of law, a fundamental matter when we talk about the social functions of the State. We are talking about the area of health and, more specifically, the provision of palliative care, the rights of end-of-life patients. And the Greens also consider that there is a lot to be done in the area of health. First and foremost, there is a need for significant strengthening of public investment, an investment that will allow the network of public equipment to be expanded, either in continuous care or in palliative care. It is necessary, in particular, to strengthen investment in available human resources, to create specialized teams and to strengthen the training of professionals, to provide the health care that people need, and thus also to ensure the fulfilment of the right to health, with quality, for all Portuguese. Especially with regard to patients suffering from severe, advanced and progressive diseases, these people should have access to palliative care, regardless of their future or estimated prognosis. In addition, patients suffering from severe, advanced and progressive diseases should not only be entitled to palliative care, such as such care should be provided by teams of properly qualified health professionals and using effective technical means to monitor the patient, but also to support their families. But they must also be able to choose freely if they want hospital care or home care. And these answers, in our view, must be public. If it is intended, as the Greens defend, to guarantee universal access to care, because the right to health cannot only be for some, then the answer will have to be public. Therefore, in this discussion, what is essential for the Greens is that this House recommends to the Government the extension of public response to palliative care, that the Government reinforce the State's response in such an important area as palliative care. in this sense, the Government should, inter alia, equip the internment units and community and intra-hospital teams with the means necessary for the performance of their important responsibilities; create Community Palliative Care Support Teams in sufficient number to respond to the needs of home care; increase the number of units in hospital palliative care and strengthen support for informal caregivers, among other measures that are also necessary. With regard to the draft resolutions under discussion, the Greens will accompany all those who, in our understanding, can go or go, in some way, to meet the concerns we have expressed here. Mrs Sandra Pereira is right when she says that much work needs to be done in the field of health, but there would certainly be less to do, Mrs Deputy, if the PSD and CDS government had not shut down as many health services throughout the country, as you have done.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u93	at the end of six years they still say that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u94	For an intervention, Mrs Anabela Rodrigues of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Discuss palliative care by mixing the theme with euthanasia is the attitude of those who do not respect the theme of euthanasia and much less the theme of palliative care.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u97	Law No 52 / 2012, of 5 September, enshrined the right and regulates citizens' access to palliative care, thus being defined the responsibility of the State in this matter and created the National Network of Palliative Care. The Network is based on an integrated intervention model, which provides for different types of units and teams to provide palliative care, in cooperation with other hospital, community and home health resources. Thus palliative care focuses on the prevention and relief of physical, psychological, social suffering, improvement of well-being and support for patients and their families when associated with serious and incurable disease, at an advanced and progressive stage. Before other considerations, I cannot but give a word to the patients who need this care, they, yes, the true heroes, who were not defeated by the disease, but who have their limited life, maintaining the desire to live the time they have with quality and completeness. I also want to say a word to the families, who are the support of these patients, and still a word of recognition to the health professionals who work in this area and who give their best to help these patients to live actively until the end of their lives. Demagogy in these matters does not help anyone. Listening to previous interventions, it seems that nothing is done, that everything is wrong, so I deduce, then, that previous governments have also left everything to do in this matter. [[All right!]] [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u98	It is true that the CDS has had a relevant history in this area, particularly in the creation of the Basics of Palliative Care Act. But it has been in recent years that political centrality has been given to end-of-life patients, that access to palliative care has progressed substantially, and these, whether they want or not, have been years of socialist governance. But let's go to the numbers. Consulting official data between 2011 and 2014, instead of increasing the number of palliative care beds, there was a reduction from 190 to 185. However, we found that, between 2015 and 2017, there was an increase of almost 100 beds, from 278 to 376. In 2014 we had 24 boarding units, 23 intra-hospital teams and 11 home teams. Having returned these years, we now have 28 boarding units with 381 beds, 45 intra-hospital teams, with a coverage of 100 % in all district hospitals, 25 community teams and six intra-hospital support teams in pediatric palliative care. Important steps have been taken. The creation of the National Committee on Palliative Care and its coordinators has been carried out, the strategic plans have been drawn up, progress has also been made with regard to pediatric palliative care, the framework of pain therapy units, intra-hospital palliative care support teams, a collaboration agreement has been concluded with the bank foundation La Caixa for the establishment of 10 psychosocial support teams and a new agreement for the establishment of five teams has been signed, being a pediatric team. In addition, the adoption of the Staff Regulations of the Informal Caregiver, with Law No. 100 / 2019 of 6 September, regulating the conditions of the carer and caregiver, the rights and duties of the caregiver and the carer and their support measures as well as pilot projects in force since 1 June 2020. Human resources policy for palliative care units and teams is governed by quality standards based on specific training, according to recommended differentiation levels, and is ensured by multidisciplinary teams that guarantee quality care. Yes, it is true, we recognize that not everything is done and that there is still much to be done on this path, particularly in order to achieve universal coverage of the population, as well as the largest number of qualified professionals in this area and, of course, we recognize various weaknesses and share many of the concerns outlined here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u99	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u100	I'm done now, Mr. President. The initiatives presented here today are somewhat redundant, ignore the Strategic Plan for the Development of Palliative Care and what is expected in it, both in the area of pre- and post-graduate training in palliative medicine, or in palliative care, such as the extension of the number of beds, community and support teams, the consolidation of existing responses, a greater differentiation of the teams in operation, with the strengthening of professionals and the greater requirement in their training, theoretical and practical, in these matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u101	Mr João Dias has signed up for an intervention, for which he still has 12 seconds. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. I just want to say that we live in very difficult times and, more than words, it is important that we make decisions to value the work of all health professionals, specifically the work of professionals who dedicate themselves to patients with palliative needs. in this sense, it is important that conditions are created, in the field and in practice, for the realization of care of excellence, such as palliative care.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u103	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor for the closing of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. At the end of this debate, I want to leave three notes. The first note is to say that in the State budget for 2021 — as we have always done — the CDS presented a proposal for strengthening palliative care, which was cast with the votes against the Socialist Party and the abstentions from the PSD, the Bloc and the PCP, which now have the opportunity to present their proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u105	We also had a proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u106	Although I do not understand these strategies, I say that we will not fail to approve all the proposals we have discussed, even though we have reservations about some of them, because what really matters is that we work, in the specialty, to universalize the access and offer of palliative care to whom they need. Secondly, I would like to mention the following: much has been said here about the connection between palliative care and euthanasia. I am going to help myself with the words of Dr. Edna Gonçalves, whom everyone knows, who said this week: « It shocks me that euthanasia is spoken in this context, with so many people dying who were not expected to die». It draws a simple analogy, saying: "It is to offer death to people who are hungry without first giving them bread—it reads therapeutics—that alleviate suffering in very serious, incurable and incapacitating cases (...) Palliative care is not in half what was necessary and has not been reinforced during the pandemic." A third note, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to talk about freedom. Freedom was the argument used, last Friday, a paradoxical term, to approve euthanasia, the freedom of each, in a situation of suffering, to determine his death on request. Today, we also talk about freedom. We speak of the freedom of a different choice, of the freedom of each one to choose a end of life, when he comes, worthy, careful, with his own, without avoidable suffering. From what I hear, we all agree with this choice. It is in the Government's hands that the means can be achieved so that this choice is equally dignified — and, in our opinion, much more defensive — can indeed be achieved. It is with this hope that we have brought our initiatives into debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u107	Having concluded this debate, whose draft resolutions will be voted on in due course, we will move to the fifth point of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of draft resolution No 780 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — By eradicating female genital mutilation. To present this draft resolution, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Only in 2020 101 women were identified who were subjected to female genital mutilation. These are not given in another country, but, yes, real cases in Portugal. Despite the path that has been taken to eradicate this form of violence, of existing plans and strategies, it is still essential to ensure the fight against inequalities and human rights violations, especially when it takes such a barbaric form, which dramatically alters the physical and mental health of its victims, thus generating, beyond pain, feelings of terror, humiliation, betrayal and even post-traumatic stress and depression, as the experts recognize, and which, in the words of the girls and women subjected to this violence, are like an "internal earthquake", which does not end at the time of the « cut», but which accompanies them for the rest of their lives. The cut or "throat", as this practice is known in the communities, is all and any procedure involving the partial or total injury or removal of the external genital organs of girls and women, for non-medical reasons, and has a profound negative impact on the life of these children and women, from intense and chronic pain, bleeding, infections, septic shocks, urinary and gynecological changes, birth complications, psychological disturbances, and may also lead to death. Female genital mutilation is, and we repeat, a very serious violation of human rights, a form of violence against girls and women around the world, estimated that at least 200 million women and girls have already been subjected to this practice in 31 countries and that it occurs increasingly in early ages since the birth of girls. This disrespect for women's body and identity is based on principles of gender inequality, based on persistent social and cultural norms, which have perpetuated the domination of men over women, boys about girls and that are imposed on women and girls by members of family, community or society in general, even without their consent, so it is essential to implement a concerted and determined international strategy in their fight. There are also several treaties and conventions that recognize this practice as bad and that call on their States parties to eradicate it, starting with the Convention on the Rights of the Children, the resolution of the United Nations General Assembly or the sustainable development objectives of Agenda 2030. The Istanbul Convention itself, which was ratified by Portugal, has led to extremely important legislative changes in this area. But the fight for the eradication of female genital mutilation in our country, initially placed on the political agenda by action of civil society, has been accompanied by several instruments we welcome, such as the Action Programme for the Elimination of Female Genital Mutilation or the National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination, among many other instruments that have been absolutely essential for the strengthening of the human rights of these women and children, including the right to physical integrity, health and non-subjection to any form of torture or violence, as well as the right to non-discrimination. Despite these advances, WHO warns that we continue to be among the countries at risk with regard to the possibility of genital mutilation, particularly within immigrant communities in countries where this practice is still a tradition. For example, although this practice was criminalized in 2015, including for acts practiced in other countries, the first female genital mutilation case came to trial only in 2020. It took five years for these practices to stop going unpunished legally and judicially, taking the first case to court. This is a scourge that fights with legislation, but also with a serious commitment by the Government to continuous investment in public programmes for the eradication of all forms of human rights violations, particularly those that originate in traditional harmful practices against girls and women, combating gender inequality and discrimination based on the perpetuation of these practices of mutilation. It is important to continue to invest in education, training, awareness-raising, data collection on this prevalence, information campaigns, training of health professionals and security forces or justice agencies themselves. This is what the NAP proposes with this initiative. We would like to thank, above all, all those who have fought this scourge, often through personal testimony, as well as the absolutely fundamental work that has been carried out by non-governmental organizations. But today we call all the Members and all the Members. Members to approve this initiative, which aims to strengthen the human rights path of girls and women against one of the most barbarous forms of violence against their bodies. [[Meanwhile, Vice-President José Manuel Pureza was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u109	The next intervention is Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The numbers of female genital mutilation in Portugal are shocking. It is estimated that there are about 6500 victims among us, and only in the past year, health professionals have detected a hundred cases. The practice of female genital mutilation has harmful consequences in the lives of women and seriously violates human rights, women's rights and children's rights. APAV ( Portuguese Victim Support Association ) tells us that it occurs for « social, aesthetic, religious, sexual or economic reasons». These reasons remind us that this is not a practice that occurs alone, it is part of a set of ideas about what should be and, in particular, what can be a woman, ideas that continue to be present in communities where this practice is more common. Thus, the fight against female genital mutilation must be held in multiple fronts: it is necessary to support children and women victims of mutilation, it is necessary to protect those at risk and it is necessary to change the social and cultural perceptions around this practice, because these perceptions make many women, young people, children, victims or at risk suffer in silence. And these are the same perceptions that make families in Portugal consider female genital mutilation acceptable. It's not! The NAP project makes recommendations to the Government on these various fronts of combat and will therefore deserve our approval. We reaffirm: we cannot accept impositions on what a woman or girl can or should be. The only principle that the Liberal Initiative accepts and defends is that all women and girls must be free, free to be all they choose to be. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u111	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the PAN and Mrs Inês Sousa Real on the presentation of this diploma. Female genital mutilation is a more common or known practice in certain countries, especially in some African countries, and for many years, in Portugal, has been the target of some ignorance, some disinterest, and, in our country, because it is very rooted in certain communities, it is related to Guinean communities, Côte d'Ivoire, Senegal, countries where, unfortunately, it is a relatively common practice, although it also exists in countries of America, etc. , and is therefore not exclusive. Secondly, I would like to say two things, the first of which is that this practice still has relevant black figures, i.e. we do not know the actual dimension of the phenomenon and, on the other hand, as has been said in the previous interventions, which I completely endorse, is an unacceptable, criminal and heinous practice in any case, even in cases where there may be consent of the victim, so to speak, because it is an unacceptable imposition. But, even more serious and revolting, in most cases it is a practice on children and, therefore, from this point of view, it is even more shocking. It is a totally unacceptable practice, which marks, which mutilates children, young people, women for the rest of their lives and is therefore absolutely unacceptable. in this sense, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, if I may, I would even like to tell you that I have the benefit, the advantage of having been the CDS, and by my voice, the first party to bring this matter to this Assembly of the Republic, when in 2004 we proposed for the first time the criminalization of this practice. At the time, there was a certain consensus, although there were critical voices, which understood that it was not necessary, that it was already in criminal law, that it was not worth specifying. That was not our position: I beat us for this crime to be self-sustained and had its own attention, self-monitoring, self-fighting, and fortunately this is what it is today. And what the NAP comes here to say and propose is, moreover, largely enshrined in various programmes, including previous governments, with this or other composition, which have been dealing with this matter. However, it is a matter which, of course, from our point of view can never be forgotten, must be present in our concerns and in our attention and therefore the initiative they bring here is clearly positive, and we regard it as such. It is never too much to draw attention to this matter, it is never too much to propose more prevention, more monitoring, more combat, more means and more ways of preventing this practice and this violence against children and women from continuing, until — and with this end, Mrs Deputy — we can all, and each one in his own way, accept some cultural diversity, but there is no cultural diversity against human rights. There can't be! And this is the key point of this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u113	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u114	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. As I said, the key point in this matter is that there is no cultural diversity against human rights, and therefore, of course, we will follow this initiative until we brought this House for the first time a few years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u115	You now have the floor to Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Children is time to play — with dolls, jump to ropes —, live in the world of fantasy and creativity, it is time to protect and trust. Today we speak of children, girls who see themselves early victims of beliefs, traditions, fears that crystallize in time. In Portugal, female genital mutilation has been an autonomous crime since 2015, in accordance with Article 144. o -A of the Criminal Code, and the applicable penalty is imprisonment for 2 to 10 years. Little more can be said, in view of the characterization of the crime that has been done in the project under consideration and in the present discussion. However, we cannot ignore that there are still many girls and women who continue to be subject to genital mutilation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no traditional practice justifying the acceptance of this attack on human rights in general and on the rights of women, girls, in particular this crime! There is no tradition justifying this absurd violence against women! We know that these traditions often reside in myths: health benefits, increased marriage chances, increased fertility, facilitated births and even prevent the death of newborns. They're deeply rooted myths. However, the facts indicate that this practice affects women's sexual and reproductive health, affects women's physical and psychological integrity, affects women's own lives. There are plans, there is knowledge and even complaints. We know that awareness-raising campaigns are extremely important, but these campaigns must be targeted at communities, because we are talking mainly about social myths. It is important that public services are strengthened so that the implementation of plans, the monitoring of children at risk, SNS structures can respond to communication, physical and psychological needs. It is essential to strengthen public services with technicians able to make the necessary close follow-up of clarification within the communities. It is that it will do nothing to advance the plans in the drawers, the intentions in the discourses and the goals defined if the human and material means are not strengthened to achieve it. The Greens believe that it is necessary to speak of female genital mutilation, violence against women, gender inequality and, above all, of the indispensable relationship between monitoring and education that needs to be strengthened, so that the development so necessary to achieve equality and respect for women is made. [[Congrats from PCP MP Alma Rivera.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u117	It is now up to Mrs Elza Pais of the Socialist Party to intervene. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The time for global inaction has ended, it is urgent to join, finance and act to put an end to female genital mutilation—this is the motto of the United Nations this year to mark on February 6th, the International Day of Zero Tolerance to Female Genital Mutilation. This is a harmful traditional practice that reads the physical, sexual and psychological health of thousands of women and girls around the world. This is one of the most serious violations of human rights, one of the most visible and humiliating forms of cultural manifestation associated with the devaluation of the social role of women and girls. This is a bad practice in which women, girls and children are mutilated, covered by a sexist culture and a religious fanaticism that aims to nullify their self-determination, sexuality, identity and citizenship. This is a mechanism for the exercise of sexist power, which uses women to subjugate women. It is an intolerable and unacceptable gender submission that affects the sexual, physical and psychological life of thousands of girls throughout life. More than 200 million women and girls in the world have already suffered some form of female genital mutilation and, annually, at least 4 million girls are at risk of suffering. Despite this practice being highly concentrated in a number of countries in Africa, the Middle East and Asia, it also happens in communities, Europe, Australia and North America. Despite the global struggle that has intensified in the last two decades, the data realize that changes are not fast enough or universal. According to the UN ( United Nations ), progress would need to be at least ten times faster to meet the goal of eliminating mutilation on the global development agenda 2030. The pandemic crisis in no way helped, even worsened, this situation, estimating the UNFPA ( United Nations Population Fund ) that two million cases of female genital mutilation are not avoided by 2030. Portugal has since 2007 programmes to combat female genital mutilation in the field of health, education, in close cooperation with non-governmental organizations and in international cooperation with UNFPA. In 2007, this bad practice was criminalized and in 2015 this legal type of crime was autonomous. The Government has put the fight against harmful practices at the centre of national policies to combat violence against women, as recommended by the Istanbul Convention. Our commitment is reflected in the plan to combat violence against women and domestic violence 2018 - 2021, included in the National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination— Portugal + Equal, and also in the high-level conference on the 10 years of the Istanbul Convention to be held by the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union. It was affixed to the strengthening of intercultural dialogue with the creation in 2018 of the Healthy Practices project : End to Female Genital Mutilation. It was affixed to the formation of strategic audiences, as recommended by the study of the University Nova de Lisboa, with more than 1000 professionals, teachers, doctors, nurses, etc. , formed in 2019. He was put in postgraduates on female genital mutilation either in the polytechnics or now also in the National School of Public Health. Recently, in November 2020, the first area of support for victims of domestic violence and traditional harmful practices was created and two more are underway at the National Centre for Support for Migrant Integration ( CNAIM ). The campaign has been launched« Do not cut the future! », which has been present at national airports since 2019, in several languages, and widely disseminated by digital means in health centres, schools, local associations, etc. , in order to strengthen the message and prevention alerts. Several municipalities, in conjunction with the ACES, especially in the Lisbon area, were mobilized to integrate this problem into their municipal policies and plans. Recently, in an exemplary sentence, the first female genital mutilation case was judged. There are more cases signalled today, because it is also more effective to fight this scourge. But there is still much to do, especially in these times of confinement, where human rights are worsened and not respected, in many cases, as we know. Similarly, Parliament has been an active voice against female genital mutilation either through the Subcommittee on Equality and Non-Discrimination, or the Portuguese Parliamentary Group on Population and Development.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u119	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u120	I conclude by saying that we are following the NAP initiative, which strengthens the visibility of the ongoing strategy, the work developed and the deep connection to countries with a prevalence of female genital mutilation. Portugal has a role to play here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u121	The next item is the statement by Mrs Alma Rivera on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Female genital mutilation is one of the most heinous forms of violence against women. It is a serious violation of the rights of women and children. By definition, it consists of ‘any procedure involving the partial or total removal of female genital organs or causing injury to them on the basis of cultural reasons or not strictly therapeutic purposes’. Female genital mutilation particularly affects girls and girls up to 15 years old, but it is also practiced in adult women. And it is also in adulthood that many of the genital mutilation practices have been detected. By causing irreparable injuries to their physical, sexual and psychological health, infections caused by this practice can cause sterility and even death. The scars will compromise sexual pleasure and satisfaction throughout life. Female genital mutilation is recognized by the World Health Organization and the UN as one of the practices that most affect the health of millions of children and women. There is also no ambiguity in the face that constitutes a number of international conventions and devices, from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to the Istanbul Convention. As the CFP pointed out decades ago, and several times did it here in the Assembly, this is also another manifestation, unfortunately among many, particularly sordid of a structural inequality, the historical product of the current system, in which it adds to the social and ethnic subjection, common to the two sexes, the universal male domination for the woman. According to UNICEF ( United Nations Children's Fund ), about 200 million girls worldwide will have been victims of female genital mutilation. Only in 2019, 129 cases were recorded in Portugal, according to data from the Healthy Practices project : End to Female Genital Mutilation, coordinated by the IGC ( Commission for Citizenship and Gender Equality ). in meeting what is proposed today, the PCP considers it necessary to equalize and implement in our country more measures of social and inclusive character, in addition to the already existing criminal dimension, since, internationally, it is the World Health Organization itself to consider Portugal a country of risk in relation to female genital mutilation, taking into account the crossing of cultures in which this practice is a reality. Ending all forms of violence against women and girls should be a priority. That is also what our Constitution requires. It is essential to punish the practice, but also prevent, and this goes through the solutions under discussion today, from awareness-raising actions to communities where these crimes are perpetuated to inter-operationality among the various actors, and also to educate the new generations for women's rights. The struggle we are fighting for the eradication of female genital mutilation is inseparable from the struggle for the protection and strengthening of women's sexual and reproductive rights, access to education and, in particular, sexual education, improvement of maternal-child health, a path of progress and social justice that raises the living conditions of workers and the people. We know that impoverishment, degradation of lives, the increase in labour exploitation and exclusion dramatically affect women's rights and delay decades of fighting for equality, so here too is an option to do. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u123	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexandre Poço.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, first of all, would like to welcome the relevance and importance of this draft resolution. We all know, we all read that shocking reports, often in the first person, of young girls who witness that, along with their common experience to any adolescent and child, were subjected to a ritual cut—to female genital mutilation—because they are part of a community of practitioners. These girls are subject to the cultural tradition of their families, because, in the understanding of families, from that day on, the girl becomes pure. But the cut, this disgusting, heinous practice that violates human rights, will mark your life forever. The marks in sexual, mental and physical life will accompany girls, girls and women for the rest of their lives and will indeliblely mark their sexual and reproductive, psychological health, but also the way they express and live their identity. Post-traumatic stress, pain in sexual relations, infertility, incontinence, infections, risk in childbirth and even death are, among other things, the deep scars of a phenomenon that results from a harmful cultural and religious tradition for society and for each of these women and that does not even appear from any sacred book. Most of the victims living in our country were mutilated during visits to the countries of origin. It is in the visits to families that most of the crimes take place. Still, cases of practice in national territory have already been reported and there will certainly be many more silent victims. Since 2014 it is possible for health professionals to record detected cases of female genital mutilation on the electronic health registry platform. In 2019, as mentioned above, 129 cases were recorded and 101 new cases were recorded in 2020. Female genital mutilation is internationally recognized as a violation of women's human rights and a form of abuse against children. It has in common with other forms of gender-based violence a violation of the fundamental right to life, freedom, security, dignity, equality between men and women, non-discrimination and the physical and mental integrity of any person. According to the World Health Organization, as has already been said, 200 million girls and women have already been mutilated and, per year, it is estimated that between 3 and 4 million girls can come to be. They are girls, girls and women whose human rights are grossly violated, in the name of traditional practice, but highly harmful to all. It was in 2015 that Parliament autonomousized in the Criminal Code the crime of female genital mutilation, following the recommendation of the Istanbul Convention. Until then most cases were treated as a crime of offense to physical integrity. In the current law, with a criminal framework ranging from 2 to 10 years, this practice is a crime, regardless of whether it has been done in national or foreign territory. Knowing the importance of the knowledge of reality and the prevalence of the phenomenon, we believe that more must always be done, it is necessary to draw attention, to raise awareness, to prevent, to act and, above all, to prevent more girls, girls and women being subjected to this practice. It is a work that can and should be done at school, with families, with communities, with associations and NGOs (non-governmental organizations), with campaigns of awareness, clarification and training, influencing the essential values of human dignity and human rights, in order to eradicate a shocking practice that affects what is most important to us as human beings: the dignity to which we all have a right. at the same time, it is important to strengthen the training of more health professionals, doctors, nurses and psychologists, of education, teachers, operational and technical assistants, as well as of the Public Ministry and the CPCJ (Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth) who, locally and in each community, do their preventive work of awareness, detection and, in the event of mutilation, medical and psychological follow-up. this Saturday, February 6, is marked the International Day of Zero Tolerance to Female Genital Mutilation. In the PSD, we are strongly committed to this cause and we want to eradicate this problem, as demonstrated by the important steps that were also taken last time we formed government. We cannot allow the future of every girl, girl or woman to be so grossly violated and we must eradicate female genital mutilation once and for all. We will therefore vote in favour of the draft resolution of the NAP. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u125	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Female genital mutilation is a serious violation of human rights and a form of violence against women and girls. It is the reflection of gender inequality. The most recent data show that over 200 million girls and women worldwide have suffered female genital mutilation and at least 4 million girls are at risk of having practice every year. In Europe, data indicate that about 600,000 women and girls live with the physical and psychological consequences of female genital mutilation and that about 180,000 girls in 13 countries are at risk of being subjected to this practice. In many countries this situation has been aggravated by the pandemic. There is a crisis within the crisis and this causes, or may provoke, an increase in the number of women victims of this practice and other forms of violence. There may be up to 2 million cases of female genital mutilation due to the pandemic and could be avoided. It has already been said several times that on February 6, this year, the International Day of Zero Tolerance to Female Genital Mutilation is celebrated. The motto of this day is: « Time is up for global inaction: to unite, finance and act to end female genital mutilation». This is the motto that calls upon us, mobilizes and proposes a commitment to the eradication of this practice. This commitment was presented in the NAP proposal, which has the virtue of bringing this issue to the debate. contrary to what is thought of on this subject, it has not occupied the political agenda and it is evident that countries have decreased the funds available for the abandonment of female genital mutilation. A project of this nature should involve the whole Portuguese society. Measures are needed to promote education, training, information, primary intervention and knowledge of the phenomenon in order to dismantle stereotypes that associate these practices with certain countries, not being exclusive from certain African countries and being spread by others, and others stigmatized and criminalized people who are victims of this practice. It is therefore very important that we have this dimension that is based on prevention and that does not become a judicial dimension of the problem, which seeks only to identify and signal women so that they are judged by practice. We have a lot of work to do! These programmes must be financed by the State budget and cannot depend solely on the financing of the State Secretariat for Citizenship and Equality. They must also be cross-border funding involving different ministries such as the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, bringing international cooperation to this problem and allowing the work done in communities and countries of origin with the work done in Portugal. In this way, we can expand our knowledge and learn from others who have eradicated this practice long before us and who have long and consolidated experience in this matter. So we can learn to dismantle some of the myths that continue to prevail. The intervention on this subject should be done in schools, as well as the authorities and health centres priority areas to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u127	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u128	It is also important that all professionals involved in this issue have specific training that enables them to work with populations that are targeted by these practices, without reproducing stereotypes and prejudices regarding these populations and these practices. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u129	You have the floor to speak on this point, Mr Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by recalling that the arrival of this House in the State Budget has presented a proposal for a national programme to prevent female genital mutilation. This project was plunged by the Socialist Party and others who today cry out against female genital mutilation. He's been down in this last State Budget we've had! This is a question of human rights, but it is also a question where we have to establish the limits on cultural diversity that we tolerate and the limits on what we allow to take place in the face of our legal order. Let's be frank: we're not doing a good job, because if we're facing a crime since 2015 with article 144. the -A of the Criminal Code, the truth is that since 2007 we have had an amendment that would allow, in cases of an offence to qualified physical integrity with an impact on the sexual dimension, these crimes could be prosecuted criminally. How many cases have we had so far? Zero! We had a conviction in January of this year! On January 8, we gave the first conviction that we had, when we know that this practice happens, in Portugal and outside Portugal, decades ago. The same courts that often allowed members of other communities to leave school, calling it "traditional" or "cultural diversity", were allowing this practice to continue and remain unpunished.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u131	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u132	We're doing a bad job! We have a crime that is not being punished, we have a criminal law that is getting empty, because we don't have the courage to say that criminal law is tough, but it's to be enforced. It lasts the law, but the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u133	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u134	That was what should happen with so many years of discriminatory practices in this area in Portugal, where criminal law applies as well as outside Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u135	This debate is thus concluded. You now have the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real for her closure.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Thank you for the various contributions that have been made today, because in fact there is no tradition or cultural habit that can legitimize the act of paying attention to the body or the life of a woman or girl, whether in our country or beyond borders. But let's not stay here. Today, there are also no limits to cultural diversity that cannot be discussed. Mr Ventura, at this point I begin with those who today defend other barbaric forms of violence against women, such as the removal of ovaries. This is not what we are talking about today, but it is a cross-sectional truth about which they often try to defend against women and girls. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to this issue, we cannot leave behind the effects of the health crisis caused by COVID-19, which has brought us an unprecedented economic and social crisis and which can mean a retreat in human rights, including gender equality, violence against girls and adult women. For this reason, the report of the United Nations Agency has also alerted itself to the effects on sexual and reproductive health, at risk of delays in the implementation of programmes for the eradication of female genital mutilation and child marriage. This may mean that about 2 million cases in the next decade may not be avoided. Today, we know that 11 million girls can never return to school again, one of the most fundamental places to promote education and awareness-raising for these types of practices and also the training of these girls. Less than 10 years for 2030 and to achieve the goal of sustainable development, which aims to eliminate all harmful practices, such as premature or forced marriages involving children, as well as female genital mutilation. Now that we have to rethink our society, it is essential that we promote more studies, more education and awareness on these matters, so that no more women or girls should be subjected to these practices. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than our words, today I wanted to end by sharing the following words of Fatumata Djau Baldé, an unmistakable name in the fight for the eradication of harmful practices against women and girls, such as female genital mutilation and early and forced marriages: "International recommendations call for a transformative consensus that prioritizes the human rights of girls and women, including the end of female genital mutilation in programmes and policies. In Portugal, something that is not lacking are policies, but for them to be effective and to have results they have to be evaluated in order to understand whether they work or whether we should adopt a new strategy. It is urgent to act today so that in 2030 we can live in a world without female genital mutilation, because those who love care».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u137	You would like to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u138	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is also up to us, actors privileged by our legislative power, to contribute to the care and training of these girls, so that they can live free — free to be those who want and free from pain and suffering.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u139	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u140	I end by, of course, thanking all people, in particular non-governmental organizations, who have fought this scourge. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u141	We therefore close this item on our agenda. We now move to the sixth point, which consists of the discussion of the draft resolution No 857 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — By hiring clinical secretaries and operational assistants for primary health care. To present this initiative on behalf of the proposed Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The pandemic caused by COVID-19, which most severely affects patients at risk and the elderly, has led the National Health Service to concentrate its efforts on it, not only at the level of hospitals, but also at the level of primary health care. This cost too much in the operation and response to other diseases, which were relegated to the background, even the pathologies that could not wait for diagnosis, treatment or follow-up. COVID-19 highlighted the known difficulties of the SNS, as a result of decades of disinvestment by successive governments, particularly in primary health care, where there is a lack of human resources, materials and even the lack of works to preserve the buildings themselves. Since the beginning of the pandemic, due to the lack of human resources, health extensions were closed, hours of care were reduced, additional care and scheduled consultations were suspended or no longer carried out presentally, maintaining only consultations for acute situations. The users were waiting at the door of these establishments, without conditions, or attending to the post office. In view of this scenario, the option to assist users passed through e-mail, phone or videoconferencing queries. Although telemedicine may have a facilitating and complementary role in certain circumstances, it does not replace the present consultations and the direct follow-up that is necessary in certain diseases. However, these options brought to light another problem in the day, which was to respond rapidly to requests. To communicate with health centres to mark a consultation, to request a recipe, to request examinations, among others, has become a serious problem. We all heard about the enormous amount of time that led to a telephone call being answered or an e-mail being answered, a question that could have been motivated by the lack of human resources and technical means. The Government has made available mobile phones for primary health units, as the Greens have defended, in order to overcome the already known weaknesses. The problem is that it failed to hire clinical secretaries to use the technical means available. The urgency and the fight against the pandemic we live in are not only to close the chronic lack of family doctors and family nurses, but also to hire other human support resources, starting with clinical secretaries and operational assistants, who can guarantee the cleaning of the sites and gain the trust of the users, so that they continue to resort to health centers, avoiding overloading hospitals. The Greens believe that strengthening these professionals will enable the link between health professionals and users to be established more efficiently and rapidly and therefore present this initiative. The Greens have repeatedly denounced that, especially in smaller health units, where human resources are scarce, the lack of a clinical secretary or an operational assistant may lead to the closure of the health unit. If it is understandable that there may be more difficulties in hiring doctors and nurses, because many of these professionals were pushed into emigration, during the governance period of the PSD / CDS-PP, the fact is that, with regard to clinical secretaries and operational assistants, there is no reason why these professionals cannot be hired immediately. Thus, monitoring of all patients could be ensured and greater problems could be prevented in the already difficult future. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u143	We then enter the debate on this draft resolution. The first intervention to this effect was Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have stressed that health centres are fundamental to proximity responses. We know that they avoid pressure on hospitals, we well know that they accompany the user with greater proximity, in a more personalized and regular way, and that they assume greater responsibility for the day-to-day surveillance and monitoring of community users, including in isolation situations. These valences already presented weaknesses before the context we live in, but now they need more responses to human resources, mechanisms and procedures that provide a rapid, effective and quality response in the various health contexts. in this sense, the NAP has been presenting and alerting for a number of responses that are necessary to ensure a National Quality Health Service. For example, even before the health crisis, we proposed the strengthening of professionals from health centres groups in numbers necessary to enable this system to fully operate, the strengthening of services and communication networks in the extensions and health centres, in particular telephone and electronic communications, but also the national coverage of the primary health care network, which is obviously essential even in the fight against regional asymmetries. These proposals were adopted in this House, and the Government is lacking to follow the recommendation made by the Assembly of the Republic. We all know, in fact, that primary health care and its professionals have played an essential role in monitoring users, in addition to all the other functions and responsibilities they already had. However, we continue to receive reports of telephones that are not answered, of e-mails that are not answered, often requiring users to address themselves in person to health centres to receive answers that would be quickly obtained by telephone or by e-mail. This situation, in the health crisis, makes even less sense because it adds other constraints and risks to it. Having said that, I would just like to say that it is urgent for the Government to take over, once and for all, the strengthening of the teams, with the hiring of human resources appropriate to reality and needs, even fulfilling what was stipulated in the State budget for 2021. We naturally follow the project that the ENP brings to us — as well as this challenge to discuss it — which also meets the concerns of the NAP, in particular with regard to the strengthening of clinical secretaries and operational assistants.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u145	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Strengthening the means and conditions for the operation of extensions and health centres and ensuring the provision of care to all users must be a priority. We have received user reports referring to the numerous difficulties they have in access to health care. We know, and it is public, that a very significant set of presence consultations was not conducted last year, compared to 2019, that a set of nursing contacts was not carried out either and that there are difficulties in telephone contact with the health centers themselves. We know that many of these difficulties do not exist because of the lack of commitment and dedication of technical assistants, but because they are insufficient for all the tasks they have in hand and in front and also because many of the communications systems are obsolete. We also know that many users are waiting, often without conditions of comfort and dignity, for a street service and, at this time when we are in winter, cold and rain, weather-related adversitys have a significant weight. We believe that primary health care plays a very important role in the National Health Service and in everyone's access to health care. We recognize that at a time when we face the epidemic of COVID-19, primary health centres and primary health care play a very important role in the follow-up of patients with COVID-19 — particularly those at home who are accompanied by health care centres — and also in ensuring a set of care for all other users. In fact, there is a great demand for them, and that is what is extended to health professionals themselves. In addition to ensuring all associated functions, whether Trace COVID-19, or the functioning of the ADRs ( Areas Dedicated to Respiratory Patients), health professionals also have to ensure a set of other care, often leading them to exhaustion, considering the lack of these same professionals. We would like to welcome the Green Party for bringing this initiative to debate and for making concrete proposals for the resolution of this problem. It is essential, at this time, to adopt urgent measures to effectively strengthen primary health care and health centres with more professionals, so that they can have the necessary capacity to meet all the requirements that are currently being placed. This has been the perspective with which the CFP has intervened, presenting concrete proposals for the resolution of these problems and improving the working conditions of health centres. An example of this was the set of proposals submitted by the CFP, still within the framework of the State budget for 2021. These proposals were considered in the State budget itself and must now be implemented. We are talking about hiring doctors, nurses, technical assistants and operational assistants—now! We also proposed that all these processes be developed; that measures be taken to ensure the allocation of physician and family nurse to all users; that incentives be given for the recovery of late consultations; that the hours of operation of health centres be extended; that communication systems and computer equipment be modernized; that there be investment in the requalification and construction of health centres; that internalization of a set of tests be ensured, which will be possible if this valence is strengthened at the level of health centres. As I said, it is urgent at this time that these measures adopted are a reality, just so that we can answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u147	Mrs Paula Santos, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u148	I shall conclude, Mr President. Often, we refer to primary health care as the gateway to the National Health Service. So let's provide them with conditions so that this entry door is always open to all users. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u149	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa spoke on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens bring discussion on the limitations of current primary health care and focus on the lack of clinical secretaries and operational assistants. In fact, primary health care units and their professionals are currently totally overloaded, with an impact on their patients. They're not at the limit, they're far beyond that limit. In the short term, it would be possible to take a set of measures that could greatly alleviate, such as improving the quality of screening in the Health Line 24. Many patients are referred unnecessarily to primary health care, where, after all, only the clinical history is repeated, when the Health Line itself could have prescribed the test and recommended isolation. It would be possible, for example, to strengthen teams of epidemiological surveys with psychologists, nursing students or medicine. It would be possible to alleviate bureaucracy in relation to patients with COVID-19, only recording what is essential at this stage, saving work. It would be important to allow monitoring of Trace COVID-19, as well as the ADR teams in the community, to be provided by professional doctors and not necessarily by family doctors. It would be possible to improve the clinical response capacity, replacing phone calls with effective telemedicine. Recently, we had, in the Health Committee, the Shared Services of the Ministry of Health informing us that 843 cameras and microphones were distributed in 2020, and this year 600, which is still manifestly short for this transition. In addition to all this, primary health care is already being called to vaccinate against COVID-19 with the same resources, which were already, as I said at the outset, beyond its limit. We will naturally follow this draft resolution, although it does not refer to many of these other solutions that we urgently need to implement. This basic, this essential, which will ensure users less hours of waiting, less disorientation and even less disordination, would otherwise be very difficult to avoid, as regards the ability to schedule consultations, to talk to the doctor and, at this stage, to schedule and deal with vaccination against CVID-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u151	The next intervention is Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Primary health care is, as we all know, the pillar of the National Health Service. Unfortunately, in the several months that the pandemic has already taken in the country, its activity has been very, very, very affected and also very degraded. Being a basic and essential pillar of the National Health Service, this poses serious problems to the National Health Service itself and its own response capacity for the population. The Left Block has already said so, but I shall repeat: there should have been a preparation for the recovery of primary health care activity immediately following the so-called « first strike ». It is true that, in March and April 2020, there was probably a need for demarcation of planned activity in all sectors of the National Health Service, either in hospitals or in primary health care, but it is also true that from May, June, July, there should have been a recovery and preparation of the primary health care response. It is impossible to have primary health care indefinitely suspended and have hundreds or thousands of users who cannot contact their health center. It's impossible and intolerable. Because it is incomprehensible, for example, that there are no programs for the recovery of activity and that there has been no strengthening of contracting in primary health care is that the Left Block, already in October, presented a draft resolution containing a number of measures and that was, in fact, approved. Among these measures, for example, an exceptional line of funding for primary health care, via regional health administrations, for the hiring of operational assistants, clinical secretaries, etc. It was also anticipated that something had happened in hospital care but had not happened in primary health care: an exceptional funding for the recovery of activity, including extraordinary activity, in primary health care, for the recovery of what had been programmed and then unmarked. This was approved. It is a pity that he has fallen into the « broken bag » of the government, because in fact the government has not implemented any of these measures. Therefore, we follow the initiative presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party and strengthen, firstly, the need for lines of funding for the recovery of activities in primary health care; secondly, the need for lines of funding for the additional hiring of health professionals, because in primary health care, professionals as operational assistants and technical assistants are particularly necessary at this time; thirdly, the need for funding for primary health care to have as basic things as tools to telemedicine, capacity to receive calls from users and more available mobile phones, so that there is access by users to these essential care. We will follow this initiative, hoping that the Government will not make any noise on these recommendations, as it did in the past to similar recommendations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u153	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Aragão.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion on primary health care is always relevant, but it is more pressing in a context where the provision of health services suffers from the collective struggle to the health crisis. We therefore recognise the merit of the draft resolution of the Green Party, which, of course, we welcome. The fight against the pandemic, being necessarily more conjuncural, does not fail to be included in an integrated view of these care, which allows not only the strengthening of the response but also the increase of resilience capacity at the time of recovery of many of the suspended or postponed activities. This draft resolution is therefore consistent with the measures which the Socialist Party has been pursuing steadily since 2015, but which undoubtedly the pandemic has accelerated. Let us, then, take a closer look at the proposals for this draft resolution. At the first point, which gives, in fact, title to the project, the hiring of clinical secretaries and operational assistants is proposed. Since 2015, the number of operational assistants in the SNS has increased by around 23 %, i.e. more than 5600 people. Of these 23 %, a significant part was contracted during 2020: more than 3200 people. There was an increase of 12 % in 2020, which also resulted from the response effort which, of course, was needed. In September, around 10 % of these workers were already affected by primary health care. in this sequence, we must always remember that the State budget for 2021 also provides for the hiring of more professionals. In the second point, the project proposes to secure the means of information and telecommunications. This has been, in fact, one of the major challenges of primary health care and there are examples that, because of the voracity of recent times, seem to us very distant realities, but we have a duty to remember them. In 2019, Portugal became the fourth country in the world to present a National Strategic Plan for Telehealth. Far from imagining what we would face, this plan provided a set of actions up to 2023. We know what happened and how it all rushed. As the project recognizes, more than 30,000 mobile phones were acquired for primary health units, seeking to respond to the enormous and sudden change in the form of access. Investments were initiated in telephone stations, seeking a quality of service that distance and telehealth impose. Muscle reinforced SNS 24. During 2020 he made four million visits, almost the third of the previous year, and is responding to thousands of calls today. This effort, which is first of all his professionals, justifies the award that was awarded to him at the end of last year, the Call Center 2020 Merit Trophy. It is especially relevant because it is a prize awarded by an external entity which is already in 20. The edition? It is, however, even more relevant that it has been assigned to a service that has suffered a revolution in a particularly difficult year, showing that difficulties, demands and pressure of the moment should not be confused with degradation of service, lack of capacity or effort of response.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u156	The SNS 24 Balkans will facilitate the digitization of health services not only by mitigating the enormous asymmetries of access but by seeking to maintain this proximity. Finally, I refer to points 3 and 4 of the draft resolution. The State budget for 2021 provided for a strengthening of SNS funds from the outset. In the specialty, a reinforcement of EUR 150 million was ensured — some parties should remember how they voted. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that recognizing these efforts and advances is not at all ignoring the weaknesses and difficulties we face. For many Portuguese people who hear us, there are many millions, many calls, many professionals, many numbers. The coldness of the great numbers necessarily clashs with what each one of us, as a citizen, feels so many times, but this is the way in which we should, indeed, continue to strive. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u157	You now have the floor on behalf of the PSD, Mr Rui Cristina.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss the Draft Resolution No 857 / XIV / 2. by which the Greens Ecological Party proposes to the Assembly of the Republic to make several recommendations to the Government. First, the ENP recommends that the Government contract clinical secretaries and operational assistants, which are necessary for primary health care. Secondly, the ENP recommends that the Government ensure the technical means necessary to ensure the service of the telephone calls of the users of the National Health Service. Thirdly, the ENP recommends that the Government make the necessary interventions in the areas of waiting and care of health centres to ensure adequate conditions for its users. Finally, the ENP proposes that Parliament recommend to the Government that it ensure the supply of clinical and medicinal products whose absence may compromise the efficient provision of care. All proposals with which no humanist and social-sensitive party may fail to agree. Indeed, which party will not advocate further hiring of staff for primary care? What party will not defend the improvement of the conditions of care of SNS users? What party, finally, would not want public health services to have enough medical and clinical material in order to ensure an efficient provision of care to patients? They are effective and objectively positive proposals. So why do they deserve political redress? For a very simple reason, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We must recognize the umbilical relationship of the ENP with the Communist Party. As such, it has always supported the budgets presented by the governments of the Socialist Party over the past five years. From 2016 to 2019, what happened was the severe disinvestment in the National Health Service. It is recalled the reduction of strength and work in the SNS, due to the adoption of the 35-hour weekly working time, in clear discrimination of millions of workers in the private and social sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u159	That's a political brilliantness!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u160	at the end of five years of respectful support to the Government of the Socialist Party, with the consequences in view of the health sector, which morale assists the ENP to present proposals that are only timely — and make it clear that they are — for the simple reason that the PS Government has not fulfilled them because the parties that supported it have never remembered the demand?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what really matters today is how the National Health Service can and should overcome the current crisis and that the united left-wings irresponsibly worsened. Today, six months after the so celebrated "Portuguese miracle", in which propaganda attributed all the merits to the socialist government, the country lives the "Portuguese hell" where the blame, of course, is no longer the Executive. It's the people's fault. Yes, it is from the people, who do not recognize the Prime Minister's prestige and the caudilism of his Minister of Health. A Prime Minister who swore that « until now he has not missed anything and it is not foreseeable that he will be missing». A Minister of Health who calls it a criminal who criticizes her and who, in the face of the brutal increase in non-COVID mortality, is allowed to insinuate that those who denounce her « use death and disease as a political argument». The numbers there are and it is unforgettable that today Portugal presents the worst indicators in terms of COVID mortality per million inhabitants, and also the worst numbers of new cases. With these numbers, what would it be if the government were central-right? Certainly the Block, the PCP, the ENP, probably even the PAN and the PS, would accuse the government of killing people. The truth is that today the country pays irresponsibility, the lack of foresight of the socialist government, whose sectarianism prevented it from properly mobilizing national resources, particularly the private and social sectors of health. Fortunately, there are other European nations that show willingness to help our National Health Service in a demonstration of European solidarity that many say does not exist. The draft resolutions we are discussing today can be formally voted on this week, but politically, the sense of vote will only go to vote when we are discussing the state budget bill for 2022. That is where we will see the real importance that the ENP gives to the recommendations to the government that it presents to this House today. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u163	Mr André Ventura has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal presented to us by the ENP brings what has been advocated as necessary for a long time: more means of care and more means of operation. The question that remains is why the ENP did not do so in the State Budget, when it had the ability and possibility to influence. The question is why the CFP did not take these proposals from the ENP and took them to the State Budget, which had guaranteed the Socialist Party's approval. This is what should have been done today. Mr Bruno Aragão, I have listened very carefully to him saying that Portugal should be proud of its strategic plan of telehealth. It seems a joke, Mr Member, that when chaos on the Health Line 24 is installed, when we cannot even guarantee the minimums of care and we are represented by international institutions, the Member will appear here in Parliament, saying that we have a historic plan! Mr President, we are not missing plans, no plans or programmes. What we lack is government action. What we lack is investment in areas such as technological and digital support for health services. All of you! No exclusion! That's what's missing, they're not plans! So come here and say that we should be very proud of the historic and strategic plan that we have, when we have failures every day in the health service precisely because of these plans, it may seem to be a joke.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u165	Mr. Deputies, please conclude if you do the favor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u166	I'll finish. It's not! It was your words today. We already know what the PS is. He lives on plans and doesn't live in action.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u167	We are now closing this last item on our agenda. You have the floor for the purpose of Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by thanking the Members for their comments. Members and, if there is any doubt about the importance of these recommendations which the Greens bring to plenary today, I would like to give some examples: January 2021 — The Caramulo Health Extension closed due to the lack of administrative authorities, in a village where there are several cases and outbreaks in the homes of the elderly. A question was even put to the Government by the PSD on this issue. That is why I do not fully understand this speech that Mr Rui Cristina has brought here. I thought you were worried.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u169	We're worried!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u170	So, seeing your question, I bet you will vote in favour of this project presented by the Green Party. January 2021 — Souxelas Health Centre ( Coimbra ) is closed due to the lack of technical assistants allowing the normal functioning of administrative services. Therefore, if these questions, which are so important to the SNS response, and if primary health care goes far beyond the response to disease situations, having a decisive role in their prevention and closer monitoring of older people, the resumption of normal functioning of proximity units can contribute decisively to the fight against COVID-19, through the strengthening of information and training of the population. If you are already enrolled in the Budget for 2021, we do not realize how in 2021 there are still health centres to close not because of lack of doctors and nurses, not because of lack of health professionals but because of lack of administration. This is why it is essential for these professionals to engage quickly in such a way as to give an adequate response to the population, and we hope that all of us will follow this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u171	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this item on our agenda is closed, so we are going to proceed to the vote. I wonder if all parliamentary and parliamentary groups are ready for this. Let us make a small wait so that this can be done and so that we can quickly enter the voting stage. As the parliamentary groups prepare for the voting stage, I would ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Sofia Araújo, to do the right thing to read the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Bureau submitted an application for withdrawal by the proposer of draft resolution No 709 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ). The following legislative initiatives were also admitted to the Bureau : Proposal for a Law No 72 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; Draft Resolution Nos 899 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 908 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 909 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 910 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 911 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 912 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and Parliamentary Assessments Nos 39 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 40 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 41 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ). I now report on the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. The request of Judge 5 of the Criminal Instruction Court of Porto, of the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Case No. 396 / 19.0T9VCT, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. Eduardo Teixeira ( PSD ) to testify in writing as a witness within the scope of the cars in question. The request of the Organic Unit of the Administrative and Prosecutor's Office of Ponta Delgada, Case No. 142 / 08.4BEPDL, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. João Azevedo Castro ( PS ) to testify in writing as a witness within the scope of the reference cars. The request of Judge 1 of the Local Court of Braga, of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Case No 3133 / 18.3T8BRG, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Hugo Pires ( PS ) to testify in writing as a witness within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u173	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinions are under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote on the opinions. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall then enter the stage of the vote. The first vote will focus on the draft vote No 447 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PS ) — Regret of the death of Fernando Aguiar Branco. I would like to ask Mrs Sofia Araújo to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Larger figure of Porto and Country, Dr. Fernando Aguiar Branco was born in Coimbra on May 17, 1923 and died in Porto, where he spent much of his adult life at the age of 97 on January 28, 2021. He had a remarkable life both in his civic dedication and at professional and cultural level. He graduated in law from the Faculty of Law of the University of Coimbra in 1947, and in that year began his professional course in the judiciary of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Varzim Póvoa County. Between 1948 and 1950 he was under-delegated by the Directorate of the National Institute of Labour and Providence, in Porto. In 1949 he began his career as a lawyer and founded in 1980 the Aguiar-White & Associates company, based in Porto. He was mayor of the City Hall of Porto, from 1972 to 1974, and in 1973 he was elected deputy to the National Assembly, as independent, on the lists of the National Popular Action. During his long career he held several positions in the Order of Lawyers, he was elected as a spokesman of the District Council of Porto in the three years 1969 / 1971 and presided over the District Council of the Port of the Order of Lawyers and its Institute of Conference between 1972 and 1974. He chaired the Trade Union Box for the Prevention of Barqueiros, Fragateiros and the Naval Construction of the District of Porto, between 1948 and 1951. He was a legal consultant of the Insurance Company Quietness, from 1952 to 1975, as well as the Banco Espírito Santo & Commercial de Lisboa, from 1955 to 1970. Among other positions, he was President of the Board of Directors of the Eng.o António de Almeida Foundation and the Director of the UNESCO Centre of Porto since 1984, Counsellor of the Mário Soares Foundation and Honorary Partner of the Society of Geography of Lisbon 2009. He received the Medal of Jerusalem ( 1979 ), the Order of the Civil Merit of the Kingdom of Spain ( 1981 ), the Medal of Merit ( Degree Ouro) of the City Hall of Porto ( 1988 ), the Fraternitas Award by the University of Tulane in the United States of America ( 1988 ), the degree of Grand Officer of the Order of Infante D. Henrique ( 1994 ), the Gold Medal of the Order of Advocates( 1999 ), attributed to individualities which, being or having been Advocates, have contributed significantly, by their personal action and merit, to the defense of the Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees of Citizens, and the Medal of Cultural Merit awarded by the Ministry of Culture ( 2003 ), to the decoration of the Knight of the « Order of Stella della Solidarie Italiana ( 2010 ) and the Medal of the Ad vongados of the Order ( 2011 ). He received the Doctorate Honoris Causa en Letras ( Philosophy) from the University of Coimbra ( 2000 ). He is the author of extensive bibliography, which highlights the works of the Fideicomissos ( 1948 ), Eng.o António de Almeida - Esboço Biografico ( 1994 ), Digressions Autobiographicas ( 1997 ), Surto, vol. I ( 2000 ) and vol. II ( 2006 ) and The Secret Is ( 1998 ). During his life, Dr. Fernando Aguiar Branco also noted his very active civic participation, particularly in support of authentic candidatures in the city of Porto. Thus, by its contribution to the defence of fundamental rights and by its example of citizenship and civic participation, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, decides to demonstrate its deep regret and dismay at the death of Dr. Fernando Aguiar Branco and to present to all his family and friends the deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u175	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the legislative part of the draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we will vote on draft resolution No 902 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Investigation Committee for losses registered by the New Bank and charged to the Resolution Fund. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] For Bill Nos 590 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Anticipation of the age of reform of disabled workers and 617 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Special scheme for access to early retirement for persons with disabilities has been submitted by the tenderers to the Committee on Labour and Social Security without a vote for a period of 60 days, which I believe we can vote together. Let's vote them, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We will now vote for the Resolution Project No. 769 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Investment and requalification of Visconde de Salreu Hospital. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u176	Mr President, I think we can vote together on all the draft resolutions on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u177	Mr President, when there is consensus, it seems to me to be a good idea. Let us then, in general, vote on Resolution Projects Nos 769 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Investment and requalification of Visconde de Salreu Hospital, 828 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By valuing Visconde Salreu Hospital, in Estarreja, 836 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — The reopening of the Emergency Service and the proper functioning of Visconde de Salreu Hospital ( Estarreja ) and 842 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Requalification of Visconde de Salreu Hospital. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, all these draft resolutions are down to 9. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 635 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Support for independent partners and workers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] Mrs. Members, can we also vote together on draft resolutions on palliative care? Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u178	Mr President, by us these draft resolutions can all be voted on except for those submitted by the Liberal Initiative and the PSD respectively.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u179	That's how we do it. Let us then, in general, vote on Resolution Projects Nos 282 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen training in palliative care in Portugal, 284 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government urgently strengthen beds and palliative care teams in order to ensure national coverage in both hospital and household services, 253 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government extend the public response to palliative care and 291 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthens the State's response in the area of palliative care. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] All these draft resolutions are down to 9. the Commission. We will now vote, in general, on Resolution Projects Nos 256 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — By extending palliative care and 304 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the national palliative care network and support for patients, their families and informal caregivers in a specific context of palliative care. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PCP and PEV abstained.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 780 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — By eradicating female genital mutilation. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u180	Mr President, in order to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u181	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 857 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — By hiring clinical secretaries and operational assistants for primary health care. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We will move on to the Resolution Project No. 697 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government support extended agricultural, forestry and livestock production systems for which a request is made by the CFP so that points 1 and 2 are voted together and then points 3 and 4 together together. Let us then vote points 1 and 2 of draft resolution No 697 / XIV / 2. a ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] Let us now vote points 3 and 4 of draft resolution No 697 / XIV / 2. a ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PEV and IL were rejected.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 804 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-attached Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends that the Government, in the framework of the negotiations on the Energy Charter, defend its profound reformulation, ensuring environmental protection and protection of public health. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] The opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of the Members on the vote script have already been voted on. I would like to ask the Secretary to announce to the Members. Members who were present by video conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u182	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform the House that the following Members were present by videoconferencing. Members: Isabel Rodrigues ( PS ), Sara Madruga da Costa ( PSD ), Sérgio Marques ( PSD ) and Carlos Alberto Gonçalves ( PSD ). In prophylactic isolation are the following Mrs. Members : Eduardo Baroco de Melo ( PS ), Maria Begonha ( PS ), Joana Sá Pereira ( PS ), Pedro do Carmo ( PS ), Jorge Gomes ( PS ) and Luís Leite Ramos ( PSD ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-03.u183	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that the next plenary meeting will take place on 11 Thursday at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: point 1 — Presentation and discussion of the report on the implementation of the statement of emergency status from 8 January to 14 January 2021 ; point 2 — Debate on the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency; point 3 — Joint discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 66 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Other tax benefits and creates an extraordinary measure of time-counting within the framework of the IRC and the Bill No 615 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the Statute for Tax Benefits, approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July, clarifying the criteria for granting benefits to licensed entities in the Free Zone of Madeira ; point 4 — Discussion of the proposed law No 67 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — establishes a VAT exemption applicable to transmissions of in vitro medical devices for the diagnosis of COVID-19 and vaccines against the same disease and services, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2020 / 2020 ; point 5 — Discussion of the Proposal for a Resolution No 16 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Japan, of the other part, signed in Tokyo on 17 July 2018, point 6 — Registral Votes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 4 minutes.]]
