ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the authority, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] on the agenda of our plenary meeting there is, as a first point, an urgent debate required by the Block of the Left on the theme 'collective dismissal in the Altice'. Then there will be the discussion of several bills and also the debate on the Annual Internal Security Report — 2020. However, Mr Nelson Peralta has the floor to give us an account of the results of the elections held at the Friday plenary meeting.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall proceed to the reading of the Minutes on the elections referred to by Mr President. The act of election to the National Defence Superior Council is of the following content: « On the two days of July of two thousand and twenty-one, a member was elected to the National Defence Superior Council. The result was as follows: Voters — 216 Votes ‘yes’ — 146 White votes — 66 No votes — 4 Under the applicable legal terms and in view of the result obtained, it declares itself elected for the National Defence Superior Council to Mrs Lara Fernandes Martinho ( PS ). To record, the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. The Scrutinadors, Maria da Luz Rosinha — Lina Lopes — Diogo León — Nelson Peralta. Do not keep on seeking. ” The act of election to the Supervisory Board of the Integrated Criminal Information System shall be of the following content: « On the two days of July of two thousand and twenty-one, the election was held for the Board of Supervisors of the Integrated Criminal Information System. The result was as follows: Voters — 216 Votes ‘yes’ — 146 White votes — 60 No votes — 10 In accordance with applicable legal terms and in view of the result obtained, the following candidates are elected for the Board of Supervisors of the Integrated Criminal Information System: Maria Isabel Solnado Porto Oneto ( PS ) Luciano Manuel Calheiros Gomes ( PSD ) Isabel Maria Duarte de Almeida Rodrigues ( PS ) To record, the present until was washed, which will be duly signed. The Scrutinadors, Maria da Luz Rosinha — Diogo León — Lina Lopes — Nelson Peralta. Do not keep on seeking. ” The act of election to the Information System Supervisory Board of the Portuguese Republic shall be of the following content: « On the two days of July of two thousand and twenty-one, two members were elected to the Supervisory Board of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic. The result was as follows: Voters — 216 Votes ‘yes’ — 138 White votes — 68 No votes — 10 In accordance with the applicable legal terms and in view of the result obtained, they declare themselves not elected to the Board for the Monitoring of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic: Susana de Fátima Carvalho Amador ( PS ) Joaquim Carlos Vasconcelos da Ponte ( PSD ) To note, the present was washed up, which will be duly signed. The Scrutinadors, Maria da Luz Rosinha — Lina Lopes — Diogo León — Nelson Peralta. Do not keep on seeking. ” The minutes of the election to the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic shall be as follows: « On the two days of July of two thousand and twenty-one, an effective member and an alternate member were elected to the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic, and the following results were obtained: Voters — 216 Candidates proposed — List A Effective : Paula Inês Alves de Sousa Real ( PAN ) Alternate : Nelson José Basílio Silva ( PAN ) Votes ‘yes’ — 142 White votes — 66 No votes — 8 In legal terms applicable and in view of the result obtained, the proposed candidates are declared elected to the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic. To record, the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. The Scrutinadors, Maria da Luz Rosinha — Lina Lopes — Diogo León — Nelson Peralta. Do not keep on seeking. ” The act of election for the National Health Council is as follows: « On the two days of July of two thousand and twenty-one, members were elected to the National Health Council. The result was as follows: Voters — 216 Votes ‘yes’ — 174 White votes — 39 No votes — 3 In accordance with the applicable legal terms and in view of the result obtained, the following members are elected to the National Health Council: Association Accreditation Association of Support for Depressive and Bipolar Patients National Association AVC Association Portuguese Association of Neuromusculars Portuguese Association of Combating Pulmary Cancer National Association of Patients with Reumatoid Arthritis. Deputies Scrutinadores, Diogo León — Maria da Luz Rosinha — Lina Lopes — Nelson Peralta. Do not keep on seeking. ” That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary Nelson Peralta. Let us therefore enter the first item on our agenda, which is from the urgent debate required by the Block of the Left, on the theme « collective dismissal in the Altice». You have the floor to open the debate, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2020 the revenues of Altice Portugal increased to EUR 2121 million, with an investment growing to 7 %. Despite the context — explained, Ufano, Alexandre Fonseca, the ineffable CEO (executive chief officer) of Altice Portugal — there was a continuous increase in customer and service base, increased sales of equipment, mainly mobile phones, and there was a return of premium content revenue and an increase in roaming revenues. MEO's donor operator thus closed the last year with more revenues, more profits and more customers than in the previous year. At the end of May this year, the CEO announced that between January and March 2021 the revenues of Altice Portugal had risen 5 % to EUR 549 million. A little more than a month after these triumphal announcements, Altice communicates that she intends to send to the eye of the street, through a collective dismissal, almost 300 workers, breaking up with the lives of these 300 people. in a company with profits and growth, which in 2020 received around EUR 11 million from Community funds through the Altice Foundation and the Altice Labs, this announcement is an insult to the country, a declaration of war on workers and an offence to the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u6	Last Monday, with Mrs Catarina Martins, we heard the testimony of many workers who have already received this threat that they will be fired. To hear these testimonies in the first person was, in addition to pungent, deeply revolting: there are workers who have been in the company for more than 20 years and to whom they have reported the dismissal one day to the other, while still working in the company and with their contract in full operation, have disabled their access to computers and any task, adding to the violence of the dismissal letter the totally illegal humiliation of sudden emptying of tasks, of having blocked access to the company portal, to the e-mail, to the mobile phone, to the parking lot and, adding to this, the psychological torture of having to meet a schedule, without any function, in these conditions and in this environment. There are workers who have won against Altice in court the process of transmission of establishment. And the Altice, who was forced by justice to integrate the workers, who illegally wanted to dispatch to other companies, now has the low level of inclusion in a list for collective dismissal, in an old way of taking revenge on those who have done no more than demanding compliance in 2017. Several workers — especially women who have manifested themselves — have told us about the time they have spent on the company, how much they have given home, the commitments they have made with their family, with their children, with the payment of the house's provision, of the despair that they do not know now, what their life will be like in weeks or months. Several workers have explained the same to us: their duties have not ended, what they do is still a necessity of the company. Only the Altice wants to replace workers with rights, covered by the company agreement, included in the collective contract, integrated into a career, by an army of outsourcing precariouss. In fact, he has already recruited precarious workers for Intelcia to perform the same functions, now outsourced and resorting to intermediaries. In order to persevere in its long record of coping and disregard for those with whom it works, the Administration has still put these workers, who now want to kick off the company, to give training to the external precariouss that come to perform their duties. What's in issue, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Member States, with this announcement of collective dismissal by the Alticif, by this announcement of this collective dismissal by Altice, by the Altice, is an unacceptable activ, with this announcement of collective dismissal by Altice, by the Altice, it is an unacceptable manoeuvre by the use of this collective dismissal notice by Altice, by Altice., it is an unacceptable maneuver by Altice, an unacceptable manoeuvre of the use of red red red red red red red red red red redundee workers and bad paid; it is an unacceptable maneuver by the use of red redundee workers as a pressureing mechanism of pressure on all workers in a profit-for-earless companies and the replacement of workers with rights for poor and poor workers and poor pay ; it is an unacceptable move for the use of collective redundee workers in the collective dismissal process; it is an unacceptable move which is not possible only because in the last decade of the last decade in recent decades, in the last decade of years, a move which has been transformed in the past years, in the past years, the past years, the last year, the last year, the last year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year, the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year In 2017, let us not forget, there was a huge struggle for workers from PT, MEO, Altice, an exemplary struggle against the fraud of using the figure of the transmission of establishment to dispatch workers to other companies, which then fired. This fight was exemplary and was able to force the action of the Act (Working Conditions Authority) and the Government and managed to change the law to prevent such fraud. Once again, today, with this dismissal, we are not only facing an unacceptable maneuver, but also facing a test balloon. A test balloon that, if it happens, will apply to the Altice, but it will be a sign for all companies that already prepare a layoff wave. As in 2017, this maneuver and this test balloon cannot pass. The workers have already scheduled their response and there is a marked strike for 21, but the government cannot pretend that it does not see what is happening. This dismissal cannot be authorized by the government, must be stopped by the government and must be prevented from now on. That is the requirement of a country that is respected, that is the requirement of a country that respects those who work and that is the requirement that we bring here today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u7	Two Members have signed up to request clarification, to which Mr José Moura Soeiro will answer together. You have the floor for this purpose, Mrs Carla Barros.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mr José Moura Soeiro, this issue of the intention of collective dismissal by the Altice is of enormous importance to the country, by the strategic sector in Portugal. now, and since the other week, we have witnessed a political dispute between the Left Block and the PCP, from which the PSD has to distance itself, as is natural. The PSD defends on an equal footing both companies and workers. The Left Block and the PCP dispute who is more friendly to the workers and we all know that this does not pay anything, nor does it help to solve the problems of workers and the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u9	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u10	in this sense, it has also been six years since the Left Block and the CFP support this government solution and therefore it should be time for the CFP and the Left Block to assume their share of responsibility for these evils that you accuse the Government of doing to the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u11	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u12	It's been six years! The Left Block and the CFP must, in this case, assume the collective dismissal of the employees of the Altice, who have their share of responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u14	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the opportunity of this debate, it is also the time for the Government to agree to the real country we have. It is time for the government to realize the breakdown and paralysis in economic activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u15	Can't you get better than this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u16	It is time for the government to realize the gradual increase in the unemployment rate; to realize that support for companies does not arrive in time and time, in addition to being the country of the European Union which has less helped companies in this particular period of crisis; to understand the question of moratoriums, employment, employment competitiveness, the Recovery and Resilience Plan (PRR ) which does not really bet on the maintenance of employment and the creation of more jobs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block, if you answer the questions I am going to ask, you will certainly give help to solve the problems of the Altice workers. The questions are: what ideas does the Left Block have in this debate to share with the country how it will hold jobs in this pandemic period? How will the creation of more and better jobs be implemented? If the Left Block can contribute, it will, of course, also help the Altice workers, we recognize that they are going through an extremely complicated period in the country, like other situations that the government has to be aware that they can happen and that we must avoid. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u17	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Rita Borges Madeira of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, Mr José Moura Soeiro, I would like to begin by thanking the Block on the Left for the relevance of this urgent debate. Especially at the moment we live and after a year and a half living in a complicated state of public health, which involved a social and economic crisis, of which we are beginning to see some recovery, is very worrying to hear about collective dismissals. With the efforts of workers, employers and government measures, the unemployment rate, even at the height of the crisis, remained below the euro area average and the European Union. This debate is about the Altice and the collective dismissal which it intends to carry out in relation to about 300 workers, as well as the hiring of other workers to allegedly fill the jobs left vacant by them, and this may entail illegal dismissal. And I say « allegedly» because, despite the great will of each of the 230 people who sit in this Chamber, the truth is that we cannot verify that this is the case. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u19	Mrs. Members, the Government and Parliament work every day, within their duties, to create economic, social and confidence conditions to ensure an increasingly strong, dynamic and structured job market. A week ago, we discussed here — and we will continue to do so — the fight against precariousness, because this is a central struggle for a more dignified and just society and one of the most decisive variables in young people's life projects. Let us debate and continue to discuss decent work, new forms of work relations, the right to disconnect, the reconciliation between family life and working life. The Socialist Party is and will always be, as it could not fail to be, alongside the workers, by the law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u20	And it's from there? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u21	... and we will continue to work and fight, as so far, for more skilled employment, for more stable employment, for better wages and for robust social security that, in times of crisis like this, knows to be up to what the Portuguese expect of it. Together with the commitment and determination of all, we will overcome this crisis and will not admit that the situation in which our companies and our workers are going through may serve as an excuse to cover up situations of illegal work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, Mr Soeiro, I ask you whether the Left Block does not understand that this particular case should, first and foremost, have the intervention and supervision of the ACT and, lastly, it must be brought before the court, the entity which, in fact and in law, has the power to state whether or not we are before an illegal collective dismissal. On the other hand, I would add that it will never be up to the government, as you said, to authorize or not to fire, especially in the private sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u22	To reply, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to Parliament to monitor the exercise of executive power by the Government, and it is up to the Government to intervene in this process of dismissal...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u25	...and prevent this maneuver, this test balloon which is currently being attempted by the Altice. It is a company with large profits that, in the middle of the pandemic, wants to send 300 workers to the street. It is unacceptable, it is irresponsible and this operation must be stopped, yes, by the government. It is a manipulation of the law and therefore the government has an intervention on this matter. But let's go further, Mrs. Member : the Left Block argues that profit companies must be prevented from firing. In fact, this is a measure that, in other countries, has been discussed and even implemented and is a measure of wisdom and protection of workers, in such a period as this one we are going through. So here is the challenge: is the PS available to approve such a measure in Parliament? In addition to being an unacceptable maneuver, we are in fact in front of a test balloon, in which a company—in this case is Altice, but we could be talking about Santander or BCP, whose workers will be at the door of Parliament, in manifesto, on Tuesday—uses the pandemic context to operate a structural transformation of replacement of workers with rights and wages for precarious, outsourced workers and with low wages. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is serious, it cannot be allowed, it must be stopped and, yes, we have a responsibility. That the PSD doesn't say anything about it,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u26	About the layoffs at the Altice, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u27	... in the case of Altice, shows its complicity with this wild patronage. Let the Socialist Party take refuge in general and in courts, it is a way of subtracting itself from the political responsibility that is brought to this Parliament about what we, as Parliament, and the government have to do. With regard to this manoeuvre, to this test balloon, to the fiction of this dismissal which is being used, in a manipulative way, to operate this transformation, we hope that the government will not remain silent and that it will bring us its commitment to how these workers will defend themselves. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u28	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: A collective dismissal is, in the opinion of the CDS, and I believe that in the opinion of all parties, something that no one wants and that no one likes. Therefore, they do not want or like workers, nor do they want or like employers. For the CDS, the world of work lives on balance and we don't look facially at either side. We do not share the idea, that some left has, that collective dismissal is something that pleases the bosses.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u30	They're sick of crying!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u31	As we all know, collective dismissal is a means of termination of employment contracts which follows a set of very specific rules and which can only occur for certain reasons, of the market, structural or technological, and if it is operated simultaneously or successively, I repeat, within a period of three months. The President of the Altice justifies this decision with the very adverse context in the telecommunications sector, with the hostile regulatory environment and always with the protection of the government, but also with the delay in implementing the 5G.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u32	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u33	In this regard, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have to make a separate one, because in October last year the CDS presented in this House an initiative that not only recognized this problem as it still presented solutions. The CDS proposed that the Government define and implement a national strategy allowing Portugal to contribute to an acceleration of the implementation of 5G, of the digital transition in the European area. Mr Secretary of State, as directed by the European Commission for the economic and social development of the European Union, the CDS also proposed that the Government should move ahead with the transposition of the Community Directive on the new European Code of Electronic Communications, which aims to respond to the growing need for citizens' connectivity and promote measures to stimulate investment in highly high capacity networks. How did they vote PS, BE, PCP, PAN and PEV? Against! Probably, if the CDS initiative had been approved, the justification for collective dismissal would have gone unfulfilled, as Mr Altice said. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Resuming the theme of collective dismissal, Mr. Members, as we know, it comprises a set of phases, including the stages of communication, information, negotiations and decision-making. After the communication, a phase of information and negotiation takes place between the Altice and the representative structure of workers with a view to reaching an agreement on the size and effects of the measures to be applied, as well as on the application of other measures that reduce the number of workers to be fired. These measures may be suspended both from the provision of work and from its reduction, conversion or reclassification or, moreover, early and pre-reform reforms. The CDS, as a party that has always defended and valued the parties in the social dialogue, believes it is still possible to reach an agreement that minimizes this impact. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, in addition to legislative competence, the Assembly of the Republic also has a supervisory function of the Government, it is true, but it has neither an executive function nor a supervisory function of the legal conformity of this collective dismissal. This monitoring and monitoring are in line with ACT and DGERT ( Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations ). in this sense, the CDS hopes that, to be inevitable—I repeat, to be inevitable! — this collective dismissal occurs with as little impact as possible on workers, that a good agreement is negotiated and that everything, even everything, is done within the law. I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we hope that ACT will fulfill its duty. As a responsible party that is, the CDS will be here to monitor its work throughout this process and to see if everything that should be done and which, in fact, competes with it is done. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u34	I have the floor for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group Mr Hugo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word in this debate goes to the 300 Altice workers, who are in a difficult situation, and to their families. This is the most difficult situation a worker has to go through, the fear of dismissal. It is their life, their livelihood, their dreams at risk — their own and those of their families. We talk here with a lot of vehemence and aggressiveness is easy, difficult even what these workers are going through and what they are living through. I know what I'm talking about. Today, I am here as a Member, but during most of the time, in my professional activity, I represented and defended workers, so I lived close to these situations. Unemployment is one of the biggest strikes in our society. We know that sometimes it is inevitable, but it is miserable to see a company that makes profits, just because it wants to make more profit, to fire workers. The word "poor" can be strong, but believe that I am still holding myself. The collective dismissal process of the Altice entered the DGERT last week and involved about 300 workers, and the DGERT had already made the proper communication to the ACT. The DGERT is monitoring the process, with regard to substantive and procedural regularity, and the information and negotiation phase is taking place with the participation of the Committee of Workers, and there will be several meetings. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u36	However, ACT has already started its monitoring process. The government has done its job. Mr Soeiro, when he said that the government could stop this, he did not say by what measure it could have done, because the government did what it should have done, which was to give more means to the DGERT and the ACT. We have more inspectors today than ever. That was a work the government should have done, and it did. Also in Parliament, in the last Parliament, after the Altice cases have been made public, the PS Parliamentary Groups, the Left Block and the CFP have consensualized a joint proposal for the amendment of the company transmission system or establishment. That's where we did our job. All of us, from all parties, have models of society and, although they are different, I think we all want a decent society. But let me tell you, without any arrogance, that we either begin to look at decent work as the main right or we will never live in a decent society. Much has already been done, but we must focus on what is still to be done, and it is on the left that we really should do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u37	Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Greens take advantage to express their total solidarity with the workers who are being the target of Altice's claim for collective dismissal. Then I wanted to say that the sale of PT Portugal to the French fund Altice may have been a good business for its shareholders—and certainly it was! — but, as we said at the time, it represented a very negative decision for our country, for the national interest and also for the workers of PT. As we have also stated at the time, and today, more than ever, it becomes evident, it was a decision that seriously called into question the future of this large company. It is recalled that this process began in 1994, with a Government of the Cavaco Silva PSD proceeding to privatize this strategic company for our country, and that it still had as a high time in 2011 the alienation of the gold share that the State held in PT. A tool that, in spite of everything, still guarantees the direct intervention of the State and the demanding defence of the national interest. Then there would be the troubled fusion process with the Brazilian Oi and Danish management operations, of which the financing of Rioforte, from the BES Group, is only one example in this context. In view of this framework, what was required of the Government at that time was to prevent the sale of PT and its initiation to a process of recovery of its public control, placing this important company at the service of the development of the country and of the interests of the Portuguese. It happens that the PSD/CDS government, literally ignoring the public interest, has ended up reducing itself to a mere viewer, as, moreover, it suits the interests of the large economic and financial groups. And that's it, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, which is important to prevent this time. The government cannot do what other governments have done in the past: it cannot reduce itself to a mere spectator in the face of the Altice maneuvers; it cannot remain indifferent to the fact that the Altice does not respect the labour laws of our country; it cannot pretend that nothing happens when the Altice weights fire more than 300 workers. The Altice must respect the laws and rights of those working and the State must ensure compliance with the law and respect for workers' rights. More: In a year in the first quarter when the Altice received a revenue of EUR 55 million, compared to last year's first quarter, it now intends to fire 300 workers. And worse: it bases this claim with « the unsustainable fixed cost structure » and « a market where revenues are declining », when Altice received a revenue of more than 5 % compared to the first quarter of 2020. Looks like everything's worth it! It's good to say good-bye, even if we keep on fattening the profits. It is worth saying goodbye, even though it has assured workers that there will be no layoffs. It is worth violating the laws of work and humiliating the workers. It is appropriate to give instructions in the sense that it is unjustifiably to prevent the workers on the list from actually lending their work. It's good to cut access to the company's portal to those on telework. It is necessary to require the delivery of tools and cars to those with presence tasks in customer homes, with instructions to stay at home from the beginning of this month. And it is even worth shaking the responsibilities over the government, since the Altice says she fires given the hostile regulatory environment, the lack of strategic vision of the country and the delay of 5G. In other words, the Altice intends not only to fire 300 workers but also to assign the responsibilities of this collective dismissal to the government. Now the government cannot pretend that it has not heard the serious accusations made by the Altice. The Government has something to say and must act, and that is what is required in this debate today. It is intended that the government will tell us what it wants to do to prevent this claim by the Altice from firing 300 workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u39	Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate on collective dismissal in the Altice was scheduled in good time, which, moreover, deserved the mention of the NAP last week, when we discussed the change of labour legislation here. What is discussed in this debate is the life of 232 workers and their families, it is the social insensitivity of one of the largest companies in our country, if we want to accept that labour legislation is dead letter to some employers. For the NAP, there are two things to say in this debate. On the one hand, we want to express our total solidarity with each of these Altice workers and with their families and vehemently censor the social insensitivity of a company which, in the year of health crisis and having profit, not only fires hundreds of workers as they do in an abusive and illegal way, since to replace them hire workers under outsourcing. This breach of labour law cannot have a white letter from the Act, which, in the exercise of its powers, urgently has to act to prevent these illegal abuses of the Altice. On the other hand, we want to go back to the debate we had here last week to remember that our country is under a true tsunami of collective redundancies, in several companies and in several sectors, including to the TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), and all of this with the high patronage of the government. And this tsunami, in addition to demanding the intervention of the ACT in all cases that manifest abuse such as that of the Altice, requires the Government and the Assembly of the Republic to take social protection measures of these workers while it is time. To ensure social protection at the moment is to ensure that workers have the right to receive their compensation, which will undoubtedly be a fundamental income for their subsistence until they get another job. And why do I say "assured"? Because, due to blind labour law, workers dismissed in collective dismissal must abdicate their compensation if they wish to judicially challenge their dismissal. In other words, it is not enough for these workers to wait five or six years for the outcome of their proceedings, as they still have to choose between asserting their rights in court or refusing them to remain in an even more fragile social situation. Several law teachers have already considered this framework an unacceptable compression to the effective judicial protection of workers, which, at least, being unhappy, may be unconstitutional. More: they claim that this norm in nothing benefits the employer or contributes to social peace, having a neutral economic effect, since the challenge of dismissal by the worker does not generate additional drawbacks to those who are associated with the judicial action itself and that the value of this compensation will always be the minimum that the worker will be entitled to receive due to his dismissal. The NAP brought down to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a vote, a bill aimed at putting an end to this injustice provided for in the Labour Code, repealing the presumption that the acceptance of compensation represents the acceptance of dismissal. Getting such a revocation would mean ensuring greater social protection for these people who have been and will be victims of the tsunami of collective dismissals in progress in our country. Inexplicably, PS and PSD have dropped the NAP proposal which was intended to lead to the discussion in social consultation before being voted here in Parliament. Let us hope that, in the meantime, and in the face of the social crisis that we are experiencing, they will be able to change their position and approve the NAP bill, which will make so much difference in the lives of so many families in our country. The PAN here is, as always, available for bridge making; it is expected that PS and PSD will know how to keep up with the dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u41	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first word of the PCP in this debate goes to all workers of PT / MEO who once again face the threat and offensive by the Administration of the Altice, that is, by this multinational, that this time assumes a gravity and, I would say, an aggressiveness that has no parallel since PT exists in Portugal. We have no reservations, no hesitations, no half-witnesses for the workers and their struggle for work with rights, so we welcome the mobilization of the struggles that are convened for the days 9, 16 and 21. And if there's any dispute or party championship here, sirs. Members, it is very clear to all that it is among those who seek the prize of « the dearest friend of the employers and administrators of the Altice Group », « the bodyguard of the month » or « the most tireless protector of those who want layoffs outside the law ». It was said here that one week ago we discussed the issue of combating precariousness, in fact, that was said only recently by the PS and others. Members, but this debate was scheduled by the CFP. It is particularly significant that, on the same afternoon of the 30th day, last week, the hearing of the workers' organizations of PT / MEO, and the debate scheduled by the CFP, precisely on the Labour Code and the amendments we proposed to defend Portuguese workers in the face of this scourge that is happening from collective redundancies. It's just saying goodbye is easier, cheaper, and obviously gives millions! Today, the dismissal rules continue to leave in the hands of the patronate the power to fire whenever you want and whoever you want! What we proposed was the limitation of criteria for collective dismissal, the revocation of dismissal due to inadaptation, the elimination of dismissal whenever there is a job compatible with the placement of workers, which is exactly the case here, and for now, even with what is concerned, it is clearly illegal, unacceptable and criminal the collective dismissal process with which the Altice Administration is currently blackmailing workers and the Portuguese State itself. And the Portuguese state itself!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u43	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u44	By the way, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is curious to hear in social dialogue and in negotiation between the parties when there is a boss who presents a declaration of war to the workers without comparison until today, with the humiliation and provocation that are being made to the workers of PT / MEO. It has already been said here, but we cannot fail to observe: since the day the collective dismissal by the Altice was announced, we have not yet heard the government pronounce itself on this matter. Not a word until now! The debate is going on in more than half and we are still waiting for the government to say a word on this. But more than the words that are being said, what matters are the actions and the work that is actually done to curb this crime that is happening. What are we worried about? What we are concerned about is that the Government is responding again with the same phrase that it responds thousands of times to the Assembly of the Republic when such matters are raised. And I quote a reply from the Government: « In response to the CFP question, I am responsible for the Minister of Labour to transmit that the situation signalled was reported to the ACT and is being monitored by that entity, which will ensure compliance with labour law. Do not keep on seeking. ” I hope that this is not what the Government has to tell us today, because what is already worrying is the silent grave of government officials in a process which is itself the testimony of a blackmail operation to the Portuguese State. When workers are used as a human shield, as a weapon of shooting, as a blackmail piece in relation to political and economic interests, it is unacceptable for the government to remain silent all this time. We say, today, again, what we said in 2017: who is the most in PT is not the workers, who is the most in PT are the beets that have appropriated this strategic company to the country, who are dismantling this strategic company and selling it to the parts, as we are checking. And it is unacceptable that they continue to have this intervention which harms the public interest and the national interest! It is imperative, of course, to safeguard the defence of employment with rights, to defend compliance with national legislation, to defend and comply with the Constitution, but also to defend the strategic interest of our country, and that is where the central issue of ownership, ownership and control of this company comes into being. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u45	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, Mr. José Luís Ferreira was able to innovate in the debate. The guilt attributed to the Passos was the guilt attributed to Cavaco Silva. We are getting further and, soon, we will have the blame on Sá Carneiro, assumed here in Parliament, of course. [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] Today's debate brings us a particular feature. The Left Block, in 2018, had already proposed the nationalization of Altice structures, so in fact, to the left, the only solution is to nationalize, to take up the money of the Portuguese, put it in companies and nationalize. This is still the same solution as ever and has led to the misery of most European countries and most of the countries of South America that have applied it. And they always do it the same way: taking money from taxpayers and putting it in companies. That is the solution that the left presents for everything. But the government is not exempt from this, because this year, in May, the ACT was reinforced in 50 inspectors. Repeat, 50! Ridiculous number! at that time, where was the left and the extreme left, which marked the State budget saying that they demanded more from the socialist government? Oh, my God! They weren't at all! [[Protests of PS Members.]] It is unacceptable for a company to blackmail the government and it is here in silence, when more than half of the debate has already passed! It is unacceptable for a company to say that, if there are dismissals, it is because of the government and because there is a hostile regulatory framework and the government is silent on this matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u47	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u48	I will finish, Mr. President. How will the government defend the workers? How will you defend the regulated economy? And how will you defend the regulatory process in Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u49	For an intervention, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is one thing the left has never defended, which is to take in the money of the Portuguese and put it in the pocket of private shareholders, and that is what has happened in the Altice in recent years. There are many ways to address what is currently happening in the Altice : a form of approach is to understand that the intervention of the Ministry of Labour, therefore, of the Government, which is provided for in Article 362. that of the Labour Code, is a mere administrative verification of procedures, washing the political responsibility for monitoring this process and opening a precedent of fraud to the law; another way of approach is not to rule out political responsibilities, the Government is energetically committed to demonstrating that this is a fraud to the law, that this is illegal, that we should not be allowed, that we do not know that the hiring of precarious workers by Intelcia is being used to replace effective workers of the Altice who are being fired and it is the Government to take steps to stop this dismissal and immediately suspend all layoffs in companies with profits during the pandemic period. That is what we want to hear. That is what we hope to hear from the government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u51	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Gabriel Bastos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government is taking part in this urgent debate, aware that the issue that brings us here naturally concerns all of us. We believe that the announced collective dismissal concerns one of the largest companies operating in Portugal, as has been said here, in a strategic sector. in this measure, the Government is fully available, as it has always been and will always be, to provide Parliament with the information it has. The preservation of the social peace climate in the labour market and respect for workers' rights are fundamental pillars in our juslaboral framework. hence that its promotion and effective safeguard requires permanent monitoring and surveillance by the State institutions. Taking into account the strong implications of the pandemic in our economy and, in particular, in the labour market, it is never too much to reaffirm the Government's firm commitment to the maintenance of jobs by implementing measures to support employers and workers. This is the example of simplified layoff, extraordinary support for the progressive resumption of activity, encouragement for the normalization of business activity, and support for the reduction of the activity of self-employed, among others. Since the beginning of the pandemic, more than EUR 3 billion has been paid, which has enabled the support of around 3 million workers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u53	At the same time, in order to ensure that support meets the primary objective of protecting workers and jobs, the Government extended the period of prohibition of collective dismissal due to inadaptation or termination of the job in supported companies from 90 days to 180 days after the granting of support ; it strengthened the competences of the ACT through a new suspending power of labour inspection in the framework of redundancies with signs of illegality ; it strengthened the human resources of the ACT. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u54	In the past year and a half, the ACT saw its framework strengthened with 190 new inspectors—44 trainees began to perform field inspectors, 80 candidates approved in external competition were mobilized and 70 new labour inspectors were recruited through the reserve of the last external competition. With this strengthening, envisaged in the State budget for 2021 and implemented by the Government, the ACT staff framework has reached the 493 inspectors, the highest value ever. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite the measures implemented, we know that it is not possible to prevent all and any socio-economic impact of this pandemic crisis. For this reason, the Government monitors all collective dismissal procedures closely and, in particular, the dismissal of the 246 workers of the Altice group, a group of the greatest relevance in Portuguese business fabric. The services of the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, in particular through the Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations and the Labour Conditions Authority, have followed this process with particular attention. Even last Friday, the first meeting of the information and negotiation phase in this process took place, in which representatives of the company and the workers' commission participated, together with DGERT. at that meeting, the economic group presented its arguments and the Committee of Workers requested additional information. This process will continue the normal procedures, with new meetings scheduled for the coming weeks, with the proper follow-up of the DGERT conciliators, with a view to promoting the regularity of their instruction, substantive and procedural—repeat, substantive and procedural—and the conciliation of the parties involved. Let me also point out that the Altice group is systematically monitored by the ACT, and 269 inspection visits have been carried out over the past six years, which have resulted in 101 counter-ordinations and fines applied by more than EUR 462,000. I should like to inform you that the Deputy Inspector General met on 5 July with the representative structures of the workers to transmit to them that the Act, within the framework of its tasks, is attentive and is monitoring the whole process. It should also be noted that, after having been aware of the company's intention, the ACT immediately launched a new inspection visit to ascertain the relevant facts, and that this process is currently following its course. As you will understand, in the course of the negotiation phase, it is not possible at this time to have conclusive information and, to this extent, the government must refrain from having more consideration, because they would not be premature. However, I cannot fail to express the commitment that we put forward so that negotiations can lead to an understanding between the parties that will prevent the realization of collective dismissal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to stress that the Government is closely monitoring this situation and that it will not fail to act, if it is found that the rights of workers are somehow being challenged or violated.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u55	So you're not?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u56	Before concluding, I just want to leave an additional note that the various bodies of the Ministry, in particular through the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Educación Professional), Act and social security, are mobilized to ensure that workers have adequate access to information and also support, where appropriate, that they may need. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u57	Mr Carla Barros, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u58	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: In conclusion and also to leave some notes on this debate here, it is important to highlight something unprecedented that happened at the beginning of this debate and to which everyone has certainly paid attention. Mrs Rita Borges Madeira, who belongs to the bank that supports the government, ended up saying in her speech that she dispensed with the action of the government in this matter, ended up saying that the government is useless... [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] ... and that the responsibility for resolving this problem lies with the Working Conditions Authority and with the courts.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u59	I didn't say anything like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u60	Mrs. Member, is the government useless? Does the honourable Member believe that the government is useless in a process of dismissal of about 300 workers, which will affect about 300 families? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u61	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u62	Is the government useless? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u63	I didn't say anything like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u64	If this was a joke, we could even say: "Mrs. Member, the PSD has already realized that the government is useless. PSD got it! Do not keep on seeking. ” Madam Member, the country, sooner or later, in the face of this government inaction, in the face of what is happening in the world of work, in the economy, will conclude the truth that the Member said in this debate: the Government is useless. [[PSD applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the matter is too serious and we cannot remain by characterizing a useless government, because the country is waiting and is able to survive at this stage only through public policies, the effective action of the government with the economy. The country has never been so dependent on good public policies and government action in this particular period of the economy. The country cannot dispense with the action of the Government and the Socialist Party will have to decide once and for all whether or not the Government will talk to companies at this complicated stage of the economy and its survival, whether or not it will follow the collective redundancies that may occur or that are being announced, whether it will or will not follow the dynamics of the world of work and try to keep the job that exists, create more jobs, create more jobs, make the economy more competitive. This is what the government will have to answer to the country, because the country does not survive with a useless government, Madam Member! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u65	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u66	In what capacity, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u67	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau, since they have been given here...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u68	Madam Member, what is the regimental figure you want to use to intervene at the moment?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u69	I intend to use the figure of the question to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u70	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u71	Mr President, since you have been given here by the PSD Member, some misgivings... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ... concerning what I have just said, in the matter which I put to the Left Block, I would like to ask the Bureau to distribute it to the Members. Members, and in particular Mrs Carla Barros, the intervention I have made, which is written, in order to be able to verify what you have really said. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u72	Mrs Deputy, it has been clear that she wants your intervention to be distributed to Mrs Carla Barros. That's how it'll be done. Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u73	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State: There is no climate of social peace in the world of work today — no climate of social peace! — there is a system of labour relations with troika laws, which are a weapon of employers against workers, in particular the dismissal laws, which have cut compensation to less than half and which maintain the numbness of workers when confronted with illegal redundancies. And there is a declaration of war on workers by companies that have profits and have even gained more from the pandemic, as is the case with Altice, and that are using this pandemic situation opportunisticly to fire people, to rule out people, even above illegally and manipulate the law. There is a conflict here, Mr. Secretary of State. We are not in a climate of peace nor are we in an equal dispute. Does it not seem to the Government that there are obvious signs of lawlessness and manipulation of the law? It seems to us, Mr Secretary of State, and it seems quite obvious to us. Does the government think it is legitimate for profit-making companies to be able to fire in the middle of the pandemic? If you do not think it is legitimate, then why does it not approve, from now on, a moratorium on redundancies in companies with profits in full pandemic and why does it not act, with all its forces, to prevent these redundancies? In 2017, with the struggle of workers, but also with the work done in this Parliament, we were able to win the Altice. And us, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, but above all workers, we have already started the struggle process and we will have to be able to win the Altice now too. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u74	We will move on to the second item on our agenda, which consists in the general debate of the Bill No 94 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Review of the Securities Code. To open the debate, Mr. Secretary of State for Finance, João Nuno Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The national economy has begun a period of recovery of the pandemic impacts. The capital market can play an essential role in raising investment and financing companies in this context. We have strong and competitive Portuguese companies that create jobs and are leaders in their business areas. They have the ambition to grow and compete globally. They have the conditions to open their capital to investors, national and international, but many are not yet on the capital market. And the advantages can be very important. I will list some of these advantages, especially in the current economic context, namely: the increase of business capital, the diversification of sources of financing at the most appropriate cost and the reduction of bank debt dependence. It is emphasized that the company and its strategy acquire global visibility in its business sector by entering the radar of new investors who have liquidity to finance growth projects. We know that being an issuing company has more demanding responsibilities and scrutiny. This, in itself, is an advantage, also because of the encouragement to the growing professionalization of management. The capital market can contribute actively for the purpose of growth of the average size of our companies, either organically or through acquisitions, and this is very important for the national business structure. We understand that the opening of capital to new investors through the capital market can be compatible with the maintenance of strategic autonomy in business conduct by its founding shareholders and entrepreneurs. We also see that there is a wave of technologically based entrepreneurship in global terms and also in our country. The most developed capital markets have shown an extraordinary ability to understand the technological risk and to support these projects in an unprecedented financial dimension. It is essential that we participate in this transformation. In turn, the extraordinary increase in the importance of "sustainable investment from an environmental and social point of view" in the strategy for the allocation of funds by many international investors opens up great opportunities for national companies that place their activities here precisely and intend to grow. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The capital market, in global terms, is in rapid transformation and this is reflected in its regulatory framework. The European Union has an action plan for the capital market, presented by the European Commission at the end of last year. We have a regulatory framework in Portugal that needs to be adapted and that will follow the transformation of the reality it regulates. It is the best tribute we can pay when you sign the 20 years of the Securities Code. The proposed law we present today contains an adequate balance of the various values concerned: aligning our national law with the overall standards of Union law; simplifies various regulatory solutions; strengthens investor protection; reduces contextal and regulatory costs; and allows shareholders to open the capital without losing control of the company, through the plural vote. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law that the Government is presenting today is a contribution to improving the competitiveness of our capital market, insofar as it reduces barriers, costs and charges, simplifies regulatory solutions and increases the legal certainty of the legislation. Today, we have the opportunity to create conditions for us to have a more competitive capital market and job-creating. With the contributions of the ladies and gentlemen. Members, it will be possible to improve the final outcome of this bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u76	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no inscriptions, we move on to the third point. [[Pause.]] Mr Carneiro, from the PSD, has now entered for an intervention. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today the Government presents to Parliament a thorough review of the Securities Code. The current Code dates from 1999 and has already amended 43. The changes now proposed are called "significant", moving in addition to the Securities Code itself, in legislation related to: the insolvency code ; the suitability of official auditors and audit rules; the fight against organised and economic-financial crime, among other diplomas. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the purpose of these amendments is to strengthen the Portuguese capital market by increasing its competitiveness, safeguarding investors and the integrity of the capital market, encouraging the financing of companies through the capital market, supporting smaller companies, encouraging their access to the market, bringing our legal framework closer to what is already happening at European level, eliminating barriers to access to the same market, and reducing the cost of context, if these objectives are these, the PSD can only change its purpose. But the realisation of purposes always implies options, and then we can agree more or less. It is certainly not in a general debate that we will resolve many of the differences of opinion that may exist, but we agree that this is a very relevant issue. It is a legislative process which will necessarily imply that we listen to the various entities with interest in this sector, so that the solution which Parliament adopts does not reflect a thought or options sent out from a certain concept or model. The PSD is next to the companies and looks forward to promoting their access to finance through the capital market, attracting new investors who, in view of current legislation, do not show great interest in Portugal, or may not show. However, we do not fail to note that the government usually only advances with more structural legislation when forced to do so, as it seems to be here. The PSD has another kind of attitude: to perceive the problems, to anticipate the solutions and to reform. in this process we consider that it is essential to deepen, in the specialty, done over time, but we have already highlighted, as aspects of the greatest relevance and that should constitute assumptions, the following: the defense of investors and the intermediation system; the existence of simplified regulation and supervision, but at the same time robust, timely and effective. Some of the problems of the past in the Portuguese capital market, which severely penalized investors and small shareholders, cannot happen again before an investment in supervision. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u78	For an intervention, Mrs Vera Braz of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: After a global financial crisis and a subsequent crisis of sovereign debt in the euro area, Portugal, in recent years, under the leadership of a government that has seen and achieved a strong recovery of our economy without resorting to austerity, but by implementing structural reforms, allowed us to reach 2019 with a growth of the Portuguese economy above all projections, with a decrease in unemployment of the most significant among the OECD countries ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), with a fall of 17 %, recorded during the crisis period, to 6 %, in 2019. Portugal has thus proven its ability to re-emerge itself, to enter a course of growth, competitiveness of our companies and our economy. And we'll try it again! Once again, the capitalisation of companies, the recovery of investment, will continue to play a leading role in relaunching the Portuguese economy. In recent years, we have managed to create a work base that allows us today to face this pandemic crisis with new responses and to promote new structural changes that contribute, in this way, to sustainable and resilient growth, maintaining our ambition for growth and competitiveness. The bill presented here today by the Government, with significant impacts on the capital market, in addition to its simplification objectives, the reduction of regulatory burdens or greater regulatory flexibility, when meeting best practices and international rules, aims to give a signal of the significant role of the capital market in the recovery of our economy. The capital market should serve the real economy, as an essential tool for the creation of value of our business fabric, from then on acting as an alternative source of financing, which allows for the development of long-term investments, reducing the high dependence on bank loans. It is time for all of us to call on our society to look at the capital market as an orderly, transparent, reliable and harmonised market with the European Union, which enables us to boost our investment capacity, our entrepreneurship, the development of innovative Portugal and which is internationally stated. Portugal thus moves towards a union of capital markets, essential for the growth and competitiveness not only of Portugal but of the European Union. The Socialist Party, like the Government, is in the hands of this cause and will contribute to this union of capital markets. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u80	Renewing the pleasure of giving the floor to Mr Duarte Alves, which has not happened for some time now, please, Mr Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u81	It was no longer a few weeks ago, Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The bill we are considering today is part of a movement at European level to adapt market regulation and supervision legislation, as if the lack of transparency in capital markets were resolved with this independent supervisory model. This is also the first question: the proposal for a law, such as measures at European Union level, is announced as a response to market developments, i.e. it adapts supervision to the way in which market agents, permanently and systematically, find schemes of opacity, circularity and speculation that penalize public interest, impoverish and decapitalize businesses and the real economy. It is true that these problems do not arise from this bill, on the contrary, are inherent in the functioning of capital markets which are at the heart of the capitalist system and which determine the course of much of the economy, on the side of States and the interest of the overwhelming majority of the population. See cases of dividend distributions in Portugal, with decapitalisation of fundamental companies for the country economy. It is true that this proposal aims to create conditions for a CMM (Mobiliary Securities Market Committee) with more powers of operation, although covering only the few, and increasingly less, listed companies. It is also true that it aims to ensure more transparency in capital circuits, more security in the supply and acquisition of furniture and more capacity to determine beneficiaries and holders. These are their announced objectives and which, although they have not yet produced any practical effect, are not the source of the problems, which also means that they solve them! There are, however, two aspects to the strategy in which this proposal for a law should be more weighted: that of the possible creation of a kind of pennystock (small stock, or stock exchange for small and medium-sized enterprises or small and medium-sized issuers) which, taking into account the characteristics of the national economic fabric, would only put micro, small and medium-sized enterprises into the hands of intermediaries who would devote themselves to extract even more value than that which is already extracted by the bank; and that of the escalation for the construction of the single capital market, i.e. the union of capital markets, strategy that will further strengthen the power of the capital markets themselves, increasingly disconnected from the national scope and from the national supervisory instruments and where micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are only the ornament that appears to justify this path of centralisation of capital. In fact, a single capital market, a kind of single stock exchange within the European Union, as the market for goods and services did, would place micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in countries such as Portugal in an even weaker situation of access to capital, playing in the same square as large economic groups or, at best, in a micro, small and medium-sized enterprises at European level, where Portuguese would compete with companies from economies in fully differentiated development states. The bill implies the hearing of various agents, in fact, as set out in the text of the bill itself, but which have not been sent to Parliament. In addition to the hearing work of these entities, there is a debate to be held on the present regulatory framework which the bill creates, adopts, and the future which it intends to begin to build, which is the most concentrated, federalism and deepening of the market as the centre of financial, economic and consequently policies of the European Union and its Member States. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u82	I now give the floor, for one speech, to Mrs Cecilia Meireles, also renewing the pleasure of giving her the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. It has also been a few weeks since I had not felt his presence and his presidency always relevant. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today, we are not in the committee of inquiry but we are discussing the Securities Code and this initiative, which aims to revise the Securities Code and the statutes of the Securities Market Committee, along with several other related documents. This initiative has been defended by several international organisations such as the OECD, and in Portugal by the CMVM. In fact, the Government seems to believe that the OECD has done well on this matter, although we have heard this morning that the OECD has explained that the Portuguese Government has failed to support SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises), the Portuguese Government has said that the OECD has used the wrong criteria. Apparently, this time the government has been right to the OECD because it follows the report presented on the capital market assessment, which makes a set of recommendations to mobilise the Portuguese capital market for investment and growth, something that this initiative seems to follow. The President of the CMVM also made a favorable statement on this matter, saying that "this proposed review pursues objectives of simplification, reduction of regulatory burdens, predictability in the operation of regulatory activity and greater regulatory flexibility, always with the necessary protection of investors and the market. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand the role that the capital market and the active capital market can have, even in the collection of financing for companies, which in Portugal is still small and little developed, but it can be, as an alternative source of financing for companies. There are two alerts, however, which I would like to leave: firstly, complex legislation such as this implies careful work in the field of specialty, therefore, what is now seen in a manner, in the discussion in general, in the field of specialty can be changed; secondly, talking about securities, the role of CMM and several of these diplomas, from my point of view, should be framed in a deeper review of supervision. I would like to remind you that, in the past legislature, we were discussing a supervisory reform, which, as it went in late and late, was not possible to finish. When I speak in supervision, I speak not only in supervision and regulation of financial markets but also of financial entities. In the case of financial activities, looking at the role of prudential supervision and the role of behavioral supervision also implies looking at the role not only of Banco de Portugal but also of CMM. So the question that remains in the air is: when will we discuss the review of supervision again? We want to know when this matter will be discussed again, all the more so that there were several people defending the model of division of supervision in prudential supervision, on the one hand, and behavioral, on the other hand, which would radically alter the roles of Banco de Portugal and CMM and would, of course, have repercussions on financial markets.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u84	Here we are again, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, to whom I give the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u85	Mr. President, I welcome you, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are generally two models of financing and savings in Europe and the United States. One is a capital market model, prevalent in the Anglo-Saxon market and in some European countries, the other is a model based on the banking system, prevailing in continental Europe and southern Europe. Both of these models have weaknesses and deregulation happened in both, and both resulted in economic crises, instability and speculation. So, until today, there is no one who can determine whether one model is superior to the other. The fact is that, not satisfied with the integration of the banking system over the past few years, the European institutions are determined, with the support of the Portuguese Government, to create a union of capital, which goes beyond the union, integration and concentration of banking power at European level. So what we are doing, after we have noticed the problem of the regulated bank, which, after all, was not so regulated, is opening the doors to an unregulated market, which is the market of the shadow bank. That is what is at stake: it is the risk capital funds, the investment funds, the fintech(financial technology), the hybrid institutions, i.e. all the institutions that create credit, which speculate with debt, which generate debt, but which are not actually banks, do not have capital requirements, do not have liquidity requirements and do not have determinations by the national central banks or the European Central Bank. This is what we are talking about today's capital market: it's about huge institutional funds, mostly pension funds. And, attention: this debate is also beginning in Portugal, «there can be no capital market in Portugal without private pension funds » and then we will debate the privatization of social security because these discussions are linked. Therefore, it is about this that we debate, it is a new business, it is a new field of speculation, it is a new field of creation of debt. Of course, this cannot be presented like this. No one can say that they want to create a new market for financial profits and, therefore, comes the history of financing the economy and boost the key terms of this debate: efficiency, flexibility, competitiveness, a resilient, sustainable market... Finally, the adjectives are endless for what can be done and they are always used in financial deregulation, since always they deregulation financial markets in the name of these objectives. What we know today is that the economy is less financed, there is less productive investment, there is more speculation and there is more debt. In general, our economy today is much less sustainable than it was in the years following World War II, in terms of the balance between the productive structure and the financial structure. Mrs. Members, there is a substantial difference between the objectives of these proposals for the development of capital markets and reality. Just look at markets where this type of company is more developed, where this type of investment is more developed, to realize what is happening. In Portugal, we have scandals with the BCP ( Banco Comercial Português ), with the General Deposit Box and with the BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) and we have scandals with the major debtors, because this is our financial system. In Germany, months ago, Wirecard failed, which was the biggest fintech, the luxury blue chip of the German market, audited by Ernst & Young. Also on the European market, it recently failed, or almost failed, Greensill, one of the largest investment funds in technology, which was praised by European and American markets and which, after all, it was discovered that it was no more than a scheme closely similar to those we had here of financial engineering to create debt, to give millions to profit their shareholders, as a form of speculation. Investment in productive activities: zero! There was nothing. That's why, sirs. Members, for more regulation, yes, can count on the Left Block. For there to be deregulation with an appearance of efficiency and sustainability, no. I am sure that the construction of the single capital market is, in fact, a struggle, as the PS Member said, is a struggle for great financial interests. And in this fight, of course, we are not sidelined with the great financial interests. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u86	As there are no more entries, then we are closing since the debate, in which the Secretary of State can accumulate the 2 minutes available for the closure with 1 minute and 57 seconds that still have time for debate. To that end, Mr. Secretary of State for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : on the part of the Government, we thank all the interventions, because all the contributions are important. This morning we had a debate in the FOC ( Budget and Finance Committee ) about the urgency of corporate capitalisation, and we stress the importance of urgency in this process, because of the economic context and the need for enterprise capitalisation. We assume this reform of the capital market within the reforms we have taken on the Recovery and Resilience Plan, so it will be part of the reforms that will be evaluated regarding Portuguese performance in the Recovery and Resilience Plan and we think that this should be important. We must take into account that this proposal, the basic proposal, went precisely from the CMVM, taking into account its vast experience with what worked and what didn't work and I must say that it is important not to stay behind in this awareness of Europe, which is losing competitive territory with regard to the United States and other geography and that is seeking dramatically to accelerate its action plan for the capital market. Portugal cannot escape this movement, under the penalty of also tending, by the loss of a capital market, to lose leaderships of vectors, projects and companies with great potential. We have seen Portuguese companies with great potential that end up being listed in other markets precisely because of the size of our market. We must be more competitive and this is an opportunity to have a job-creating capital market. for my part, I would like to raise this urgent call in our own consultation with stakeholders, because there is an economic context of the need for capitalisation of Portuguese companies that must lead us to this urgency. We in the government will be available for this work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u88	We are now moving to the third item on the agenda, which deals with the general discussion of the Bill No 97 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Framework Law of the Foundations. Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers André Caldas has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In its Programme, the Government has committed itself to a comprehensive and integrated review of the legislation applicable to foundations and entities with public utility status in order to enhance the philanthropic or Community-wide initiative, to recognize the essential role these institutions play in our social fabric and to strengthen the instruments of monitoring their activities. After the adoption of the bill approving the Framework Law of the Staff Regulations, which entered into force on 1 July, the Government now submits a bill amending the Framework Law of the Foundations, with a view to concluding that comprehensive and integrated review. in this context, the proposed law is intended to operate, in the Framework Law of the Foundations, a set of improvements that not only complement this legal regime as they clarify and simplify it, taking into account the experience gained in its nine years of operation. First, it is intended to cover two relevant gaps which the experience has allowed to identify in the Foundation Framework Law: the powers of supervision of private foundations and the misuse of the term 'foundation' in the name of a collective person, which is to be sanctioned as counter-ordination. In the area of supervision, the powers, in particular, to carry out trade unions and audits, are provided to identify whether any of the three causes of the extinction of private foundations by the competent authority for recognition are found. They are: when the end of the foundation has been exhausted or become impossible; when the activities developed demonstrate that the real end does not coincide with the end provided for in the act of institution; when the foundation has not carried out any relevant activity in the previous three years. In addition, with regard to clarification and simplification, it is determined that the unnecessary change in the composition of foundations qualified as public, in order to cease the dominant influence, allows them to be re-qualified, in the opinion of the Advisory Council of the Foundations. It is expected that, for the purposes of establishing possible criminal responsibility and for the purposes of refusing recognition, doubts and disputes about the property affected by the foundation must be real and not merely potential, since otherwise the scope of accountability would be excessively broad. The list of transparency obligations is clarified and updated, not only with regard to the terms used, but also with a view to referring the requirement for legal certification of accounts to the provisions of the accounting standardisation regime for non-profit sector entities. It is also updated that the scheme applicable to the limits of expenditure, in view of the experience resulting from its practical application, increases those limits, determining that its failure by private foundations with public utility status constitutes a basis for revocation or, if applicable, contrary to the request for the renewal of that statute, rather than the expiry of the statute of which the effect is automatic, still allowing the foundation concerned to justify such non-compliance. For the purposes of legal certainty, the concept of «goods which are of particular significance for the purposes of the foundation», whose alienation, for this reason, is subject to authorisation, determines that the authorisation can only be rejected, as regards private foundations, when it questions the pursuit of the purpose of the foundation in a difficult way or its economic and financial viability. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the participation of the recipients of the standard or their representatives in the legislative procedure is essential and, therefore, this bill reflects, to a large extent, the important contribution of the founding sector, whose importance, in particular in the field of social solidarity, is never too much to escape. in this context, it is firm conviction of the Government that this bill represents a real improvement in the legal regime applicable to foundations, recognizing the essential role they play in our social fabric. Nevertheless, and as always, we will be available to cooperate with this House in everything they consider appropriate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u90	I'm asking the ladies. Members who sign up, since I only have Mr Nelson Silva's request for intervention from the PAN, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP understands that foundations can be an instrument for the well-being of communities and public interest, so many are the good examples, Country outside, at the level of culture, social support, combating additions or scientific research. But, of course, the foundations are in fact having problems. Many of them are used by public entities only and only as an escape mechanism for private law, in which only the legal form is private, and all the rest, including financing, is public, without this being translated into concrete values in the lives of communities. We cannot, of course, accept this institutionalized logic in which foundations are controlled by public money or where public money only serves to give an idea of viability and financial sustainability that simply does not exist. For the NAP, these problems are being tackled in two ways: on the one hand, with measures that guarantee greater balance and budgetary rigour in the management of the accounts of the foundations, which is, in some ways, ensured by the proposal that the Government today brings us, for example, with the expectation that the failure to comply with the limits of expenditure by private foundations with public utility constitutes a basis for the repeal of that statute. On the other hand, we believe that measures are needed to bring greater transparency to the financial life of the foundations and better management and control of the public money transferred to them. And it is in this respect that the Government's proposal is clearly aware of little by little of the mere updates on the legal certification of accounts. The NAP, although accompanying this proposal from the Government, believes that it must be the subject of improvements in the field of expertise. In the context of the State budget for 2021, the NAP noted its concern about the need for greater transparency of the foundations. We are even able to adopt a proposal that requires the Government to submit a report with the list of funding from the State budget to foundations, which agreed that the Government should deliver to the Assembly of the Republic if it still knows what institutional loyalty means. We understand that this report encourages more scrutiny of public money and we want it to be a permanent rule and not as an appreciable rule of the State budget, and we will also propose that its preparation by the Government and its delivery to the Assembly of the Republic be provided for in the Framework Law of the Foundations. But more than transparency, we want more control of public money transferred to the foundations. Therefore, we also propose, in the specialty, to strengthen the scrutiny of the Court of Auditors on foundations, clarifying that private foundations that benefit from public support are subject to the supervision and control of the Court of Auditors and are obliged to account for the use of such funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u92	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Cancela Moura, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: We support the Government's intention to enhance the philanthropic or Community-wide initiative of the foundations, which is now nine years old on the current legal regime, in the light of the experience of practical application of the diploma. We want to leave some notes which, by raising reservations, should deserve a more focused discussion, as soon as possible with regard to the announcement of the advisory council for the requalification of public collectives, which, in a supernatural way, no longer has a dominant influence on a public foundation under private law. In fact, it is understood that the opinion is mandatory, especially since this body, made up of personalities of recognized value, is an excellent leader to defend the best decisions for the foundations. However, the binding nature of this obligation seems to close a degree of deresponsibility of guardianship which will be important to take into account. After all, the Government does not decide, but only witnesses and passes the certificate of the decision of the Advisory Council on a final decision, without appeal or aggravating. On the contrary, we are pleased to note the clarification of the typification of criminal liability situations on the heritage of the foundations, with the elimination of the expression « even if potential». By removing this open and indeterminate concept, the subjective burden that in the imputation of those wrongful seemed to us to be unjustified. In the same sense, the elimination of the external audit, replacing it with the legal certification of accounts, which, in addition to an equalization of the accounting standardization regime, competes as a duty of transparency of the entity itself. Another relevant issue is that it relates to the limit set for staff expenditure and the monitoring mechanism on their non-compliance. We believe that the heading itself has a pejorative charge that deserved a correction of writing. Instead of « own expenditure », which is effectively the case, these charges are classified as « staff costs », indicating the expenditure of resources for purposes contrary to activity, which will not always correspond to the truth, particularly in operational foundations. We consider it appropriate to increase current 10 % to 15 % in the case of heritage foundations. We are no longer as sure as the 70 % fixed for the operational foundations that may be inadequate to the real needs of these entities. in this case, we tend to agree with the sector, which defended that the limit was quantified at least in two thirds, since, in many cases, these foundations perform functions that are incumbent upon the State itself and the charges with staff correspond, after all, to the statutory purposes. For example, the third sector, especially the Mercy, has no such limit. As regards non-compliance with these limits, the proposed wording also suggests clarification. It is understood that instead of a fixed value it is weighted on average by the duration of the statute. In fact, a foundation may, for reasons of variation in the budgetary structure, exceed those limits in a marginal way or even compensate them by excess, according to the years, but the solution found to justify non-compliance seems to to torpeat everything that is regulated on this matter, placing in the hands of the Government the power to decide in a discretionary manner what is, and I quote, «the exceptional impact and social relevance of the activities pursued by the foundation», a kind of improper remedy which the Government may ultimately decide on a random basis. Perhaps it is justified here, because of a matter of consistency with recognition, that a prior pronouncement of the consultative council is instituted. Finally, a word for the system of counter-ordinations created ex novo. If we want to establish a counter-ordination, it is because we intend to sanction it. If we intend to sanction, then we must punish truly serious behavior, leaving aside administrative baggage. For example, during the recognition procedure itself, it will not make sense to consider the use of the term « foundation » between the request and the extension of the Government's decision. On the other hand, it seems to us unworthy to fix at least to punish the illegitimate benefit or the intention to deceive the public authority a value that has not already applied to the Road Code. And, as in the Statute of Public Use, we also do not achieve that there is an attempt in this type of illegality, nor because a fine is established for a natural person, when we are before a name that is attributed only to a legal person. Without prejudice to what is said, we maintain the PSD's availability to make our contribution as a specialist. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u94	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State and Mr. Members : I would say that this proposal for a review of the legal system of foundations is relatively peaceful, does not raise any major difficulties. of the various entities that have spoken on this proposal of law the only one that has spoken unfavourably was the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, contrary to the opinion of the Regional Government of Madeira, which is favourable. But this is, in fact, a specificity arising from the geometry of the majority existing in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and which does not greatly affect this legislative process. In fact, we are faced with a bill which, as the Government points out, does not seek a comprehensive review of the rules applicable to foundations, but only adjusts some aspects which, being relevant, are topical aspects of the legal regime of foundations and which are summarized in eight fundamental points which, of course, need to be analysed. I am not going to mention the specificity of each of these eight concrete points — of course there will be an opportunity to do at the time of the debate in the field of specialty — but I would like to point out, in fact, the importance of having a legal regime of foundations that effectively enhances its social role, the relevance of an entity that intends to affect a heritage to the development of a social or charitable or cultural activity and which, in fact, deserves recognition by the State. However, there needs to be adequate supervision so that, on the ride of this recognition, we are not favouring less worthy activities. from there that there should be, on the part of the state, care both in the recognition of the foundations and also in the monitoring of their activity, their accounts. Of course, this legal regime is indeed relevant and must be rigorous. That being the case, there are two questions I would like to mention. The first is to consider that it is appropriate to sanction the misuse of the designation of « foundation ». That makes all the sense. That is, if we want to attach relevance to this legal institute, if it is recognized individually by the State, it does not make sense that after that entities appear publicly to self-denominate foundations, to create websites on the Internet and to advertise social organs when then it is found that they are not effectively foundations, that they do not have this recognition or that they have not even requested it. Therefore, and as the people say, in order to avoid the sale of cats by hare, it is important that in fact the State duly sanction such attitudes and we have nothing against it. But here is another aspect which is also likely to create confusion, which was the fact that the State in multiple situations also abused the term « foundation ». And we have examples of bad results. We have to wait a few years to see that, including the fact that we have established a foundation, called for prevention and security, to replace Portuguese Road Prevention and to speed up, under private law, what was a public function, to ensure road safety and to carry out campaigns in this regard, it led even to the resignation of government members when it was found that it was a false foundation, which was a way of circumventing public procurement. And we also have the bad example of being assigned to public institutes the designation of foundation when it should not have been. Because the Inatel, the lovely public institute, old and...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u96	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u97	I will finish, Mr. President. How did you say, why does Inatel, a public institute, assume the foundation expression? Why do public universities assume the term 'foundation'?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u99	Therefore, if we do not want hare cat in the private and social sector—and still well—we must recognise that there is hare cat in public, and there should not be. This is not the subject of this bill, it does not affect public foundations, but it is important to note that it would be important, perhaps, one of these days we will look at this, so that at the level of the state we do not create the idea of being before foundations when, of course, we are not. They are public institutes and so they should be designated and should not be allowed to escape to the private right to the ride also of the foundational figure.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u100	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from BE, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: A little longer a week ago the family of José Mário Branco announced that the creation of a foundation was under way to manage all the heritage of José Mário. It is a huge collection of scores, letters, lyrics of songs, work materials, photographs, are the documents that testify, according to their children, all the artistic and political activity of José Mário Branco, of all forms in which it has manifested itself. João Branco, his son, then explained that it was an ancient desire of the musician. « I intend to create a foundation to manage my artistic heritage, which will have as its main mission to support young artists and musicians in Portugal », said the Zé Mário. And he concluded, for his family: "I want to say by this that you will receive no inheritance from me." It is also for gestures of greatness and sharing such as those made the legal regime that fits the foundations. Collective people with no gainful purpose, they are a legal figure that allows to place a certain heritage, whatever nature it is, at the service of a social good. And there are many who do so: in support of refugees and migrants, in assistance to victims of violence, in cooperation for development, in preserving historical and cultural heritage, in encouraging scientific research or in promoting sport. For decades, some of them have completed the absence of the state and public policies where they were most lacking or where democracy had not yet created a network of accessible public services throughout the territory. A metaphor of this militancy, which the younger ones did not know but that all who were born out of the large urban centers before the 1980s remember, was Gulbenkian's Itinerant Library Service (SBI ), an idea of Branquinho da Fonseca, in the late 1950s. These wheelchair libraries gave access to many different worlds, particularly those with less access to everything. Herberto Helder or Alexandre O’ Neill are among those who in the old Citroën vans were responsible for guiding the adventure of reading the curious who appeared, having performed precisely the duties of officials of the mobile units of these travelling libraries. That, and many other remarkable things, we owe to a foundation. It would not be fair, therefore, to reduce this debate to «the foundation anything formi,... I don't know what», which — to use two so revealing expressions of Moniz da Maia — is behind the companies that he does not remember well whether he is an administrator or not. But it is also not serious, it is even incomprehensible, to do this debate today as if these realities did not exist and did not face, without shame, our collective life, as if those who have more accumulated heritage did not use the figure of the foundation too often to wash the social image of wealth accumulated in dirty processes of labor exploitation and of creative tax engineering. I will not make any accounts between 'rotten apples' and the rest in the basket. What I will say, yes, is that, in honor of what is best for the universe of foundations in Portugal, a change of its legal regime must take as priority the strengthening of its obligations of transparency and the consecration of a firm performance of the public authorities in the detection of fraudulent situations, accompanied by the application of express sanctions of the repudiation due to this deficit which is the institutional embezzlement. from our point of view, the proposal that the Government brings today to this House gives safeguard to these essential concerns. Transparency against the ambush that is the use of foundations as biombos of interests that transcend them, this must be the priority. That is why the foundations, however important and more relevant their object, cannot be offensive in labour matters, not fulfilling the fundamental rights of their workers. In fact, in too many cases, the founding regime has been a real technique of outsourcing public functions to private entities financed by the State, with the status of public foundations under private law, but which escape from any principle of public policy or the rules that we require the State in the area of transparency in contracting, democracy and participation in management or in respect of labour law. In many cases, there were those who found in the foundations skilled processes to subtract the most important spheres of action of public policy to these principles of public good and democratic participation. That is why the adoption of the foundational model by public institutions, such as universities, to circumvent the rules of public management and transport business logic to what must be scrupulously public service is a trick we reject entirely. Therefore, we do not make the acrylic apology of the foundational model nor criticism without criteria of what this story also deserves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u102	Mr. Deputy, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u103	I shall conclude, Mr President, by clearly defining the scope of what they must serve, as well as the transparency requirements and the mechanisms of punishment for whom this figure is used opportunisticly, and so we will indeed be making progress and valuing what really matters. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u104	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u105	Mr President, I would begin with Mr. José Manuel Pureza's last statement to say that, obviously, without drawing merit or brio and much less cultural merit from the examples of small foundations he presented, for me, as probably for most Portuguese, when using the expression « foundation», are not the examples he gave of « powder apples» or « vices» which he has referred to that most come to our head, because the names that come to us when we speak of foundations, then at the start, are names like Calouste Gulbenkian, Champalimaud, which are perhaps the great founding names and the great foundations that they have given us so much and are giving to our country. It's just a little note. The second note, Mrs. State Secretarys, that is to say that this amendment which the Government intends to make, by means of a comprehensive review of a regime, as has been said, substantially 10 years later, with the argument of improving, deepening, has its origin — and at the time I accompanied this process — in the framework law of the then PSD/CDS Government, whose essential and logical principles came within the framework of financial assistance, in the framework of a report of the 2011 Court of Auditors which drew attention to this matter, that is, to the need to monitor, monitor and control the fundamental realities themselves. Therefore, these amendments which are now proposed are not a rupture, they are not a revolution, they are not even a reversal, they will be, when much, a deepening, so I think I will be willing to say that in this matter, the fault was not the PSD and the CDS, that is, in this matter, the fault was not the Rabbit Step, until the law essentially will be good and deserves no kind of reversal. With regard to what the Government is now proposing to us, I would say that we are obviously willing to discuss and deepen. Control makes sense, evaluation makes sense, not usurpation, the absence of « cat per hare», as has been said here, makes sense, and we are not against these ideas. However, we call attention—as we have already done, because the Government has asked us this question—to some of the opinions of those who deal most with this matter, particularly the Portuguese Foundation Centre and to some extent also the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities itself, for example, whether this control or whether this deepening of state control, in particular in relation to its recognition, makes sense in these terms when we speak in foundations which are 100 % private. Is that, as they are 100 % private, meeting the requirements of the law, does this intervention of recognition in these terms or does it not make sense? It is a matter that we think can and should be discussed. The same with regard to the imposition of limits on own expenditure, because of course this type of limit cannot only be discriminatory in some cases as it will depend very much — I say, Mr Secretary of State — on the nature of the foundation, its object and its activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u106	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u107	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. The concept of the essentiality of goods is also an indeterminate concept and the need for cash at entry is laudable but may be a problem from the point of view of philanthropy. It is that demanding that 30 % be in cash may, in some cases of philanthropy—which must be valued— be an impediment, so to speak. These are general considerations, considerations that will certainly merit discussion in the specialty, but we will not be opposed to this proposal and, of course, we will be available to discuss it in the field of specialty. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u108	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, in relation to the theme that brings us here today, and almost at the end of the debate, it is quite clear that the legislation on foundations has been subject to successive improvements over the years, precisely going to meet the concerns that are reflected in this proposed law that the Government presents. in it are proposed several elements of improvement, of deepening the quality of the legislative framework, without ever forgetting to recognize that it is necessary to preserve those who recognize and use the foundational structure for the realization of altruistic purposes and those cases that, indeed, must deserve greater attention, greater supervision and greater control by the public authorities who recognize it at first and then follow their lives. This process—as is known, it was noted in the explanatory statement—was based on the contributions of the sector, whose role will continue to be fundamental in the specialty phase, precisely in order to improve aspects that may possibly require some additional densification. Several have been mentioned, and I will now address them, but above all I stress the five aspects which I think are essential to highlight. The first aspect concerns the enhanced transparency that is produced here, which is transparency which is based on the framework law but which has also been held elsewhere at the level of the development of other regulatory monitoring and follow-up instruments at the administrative level. The law on access to documents, for example, was ensuring that when there are situations in which we are facing a dominant position or before the dominant financing of the public entity, this affects, with a « touch of Midas », in that foundation and puts it at the perimeter of administrative transparency. Then, a second, quite important aspect of the rigour of management which can be discussed in detail, surely we all understand why the need for the establishment of limits to the realization of expenditure or that there are safer criteria for the disposal of goods, to ensure precisely that, at the level of its management, the objective that initially presides over the institutional intention of a foundation is not perverted over the years and that somehow the initial intention of the one who created it, of those who allocated heritage to the realization of those purposes is preserved. A third aspect is about supervision, and all of this we discussed here and analyzed would be deprived of the ability to change if there was not effectively a robust public sphere in order to be able to carry out the monitoring activities. The fourth aspect concerns the clarification of this scheme, in particular — and I will have the opportunity to return to it — as regards the nature of the institutions, as regards the form of the institution and, in particular, the matter of superfluous change which may arise from the legal nature of an entity which, as a result of the disappearance of the dominant public position, ends up changing the legal nature of the institution, and this cannot fail to have any consequences. Finally, the sanctions plan seems relevant to us. That is, we realize that, in some circumstances, this counter-ordering provision may not be the most decisive of all, but the other abusive uses of the foundation structures are already sanctioned by another way, being penalized and by tax. What was really lacking here was this aspect of the misuse of the designation, because that is what can be misleading and misleading. Mr Cancela Moura, I understand the point of the strangeness of the element of the natural person. The truth is that we can actually find several 'artists' — artists in the non-cultural sense but artists in the sense of those who develop forms of intervention that are not in conformity with the law —... [[PSD Member José Cancela Moura's laughs.]] ... we can find several people who, individually, singularly, appropriate themselves and account that they are foundations, so this framework makes some sense in these cases. So, in addition to the recent amendment which we have approved and which has entered into force in the Staff Regulations, there can be a "circle square" in very important aspects of the monitoring of this matter. Having said all this, of course, that the aspects stressed by the honourable Members. Members with regard to the precautions to be taken into account in the construction of this legal regime. The risk of escape to private law, although very thin, still exists. But, I recall, it has been greatly mitigated by legislation on administrative transparency, by legislation on public procurement, which, when we are before foundations which are also bodies of public law, under Community law, are within the scope of the rules of public procurement, and the own supervision by the Court of Auditors is possible indirectly through the supervision made by entities which allocate funds to the functioning of the foundations. That is, there is a channel and a way to do it, but obviously we have an opening to be able to consider better ways of transparency, of identifying, in the background, the particularization of cases that deserve this additional care and concern. It is a reinforcement that has several paths and that should not be confused with another dimension, in fact, in the public sphere, of cases in which it effectively resorts to the foundational nature, because they exist. In other words, there are, in the public sphere, foundations of public law which have a legal regime often defined to the piece but which are, indeed, foundational structures. What Mr António Filipe referred to, with some relevance, are those cases in which he is, in fact, misleading. I give one example: the Foundation for Science and Technology ( FCT ) is a public institute, assumed by this nature, but retains the designation, most likely for nomenclature purposes. This, yes, may potentially mislead. The example of INATEL will not be so much, because the choice was that of the institution of a foundational regime and we know this debate very well. In fact, this is a matter in which there is no room for us to work in the specialty, but these identifying elements are made through a small acronym, which is affixed to the identification of a public entity. As odd as it may seem, the Foundation for Science and Technology is the « Foundation for Science and Technology, IP », and that is what identifies its legal nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u110	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u111	I will finish, Mr. President. Obviously, it is not completely free from sources of possible misconception, but it is a regime that has been improved and worked. from the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, there is also the full availability for improvements in the field of specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u112	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u113	Mr President, this legislation that reaches us here has positive aspects and aspects that are far beyond what should be done in a matter like this. The desirability of the concept of "dominant influence" was something that, for a long time, both doctrine, 6 and the courts demanded it to be done. This is effectively achieved, although in a way far from what is done, for example, in most European Union states. The obligation to certify accounts, in cases of private foundations, was something that had long been required in the financial statements submitted by the foundations. But there are negative aspects that we should not ignore. For example, when the government says that the expenditure limit will be set by the government office is limiting the expenditure on a foundation, it is saying what they can and cannot spend. It is the public power to enter the foundation directly, telling them: « In our perspective, they can spend a, b or c». But what's left over, in this gate, isn't even that. Once again, the Socialist Government avoids defining criteria as « how much», « why» and « why» in relation to the much money being transferred to the foundations. What is the criterion for the Portuguese State to continue spending millions on foundations, some of them of former party party leaders here, without giving any account of it to the Portuguese? That was what was required of a law of foundations, that is, it is said that, from today to this day, there is a clear criterion and that foundations receive for a certain reason or for some other reason.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u114	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u115	Honestly, if any party present here approves or supports money that goes to foundations led by leaders or old leaders their guess is at least a question of lack of transparency. We must make sure that this does not happen again in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u116	We are now closing this debate. In order to do this, I can of course use the accumulated time, and I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, André Caldas.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is only for me to see a very broad convergence of purposes in the whole of the Assembly of the Republic, as regards what the proposal contains, at least among those parties that participate in the democratic consensus in our legal and political community. The differences that may exist are about issues which the proposal does not contain, without prejudice to the deepenings which, in the specialty, can still be made. And it is not only about what the proposal does not contain and should contain; it is even often about what the proposal does not contain, and the best legislative headquarters is another than the framework law of foundations. This is what we are talking about and, therefore, basically, we welcome the vision of the debate that will take place in the field. the Government must only maintain the availability of dialogue and, even, to offer its services from the point of view of the technical experience, accumulated over decades, in relation to foundations, so that this framework law can be effectively improved, reaching a high technical level and solving effective problems that all recognize that exist in the foundation sector. But the aim will always be to value the sector and the purposes of public interest that continue and to which the foundation was created precisely. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u118	At the end of this item, we turn to agenda item 4, of which the general discussion of the Bill No 99 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1, which aims to empower the competition authorities of the Member States to apply the law more effectively and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. To this end, I begin by giving the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Trade, Services and Consumer Defense, João Torres.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the Government presents to the Assembly of the Republic an important proposal in the field of promoting healthy and fair competition within the framework of the single market, which is the framework in which we find ourselves. This has important reflections in our economic life and in our economic activity. I begin by saying that Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1 aims to confer on the competition authorities of the Member States the power to apply the law more effectively and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. In this way, the conditions for national authorities to apply competition rules are created, ensuring that they have the necessary means and powers of independence and research and decision, in particular as regards the application of fines. Competition law is fundamental to ensuring freedom of economic initiative within the level playing field, i.e. the level playing field, contributing to business expansion, entrepreneurship or even investment promotion. The existence of difficulties by competent national regulators for the purposes of defending competition in the collection of evidence or in the speedy application of decisions or dissuasive sanctions may contribute to a wrong perception of impunity, with harmful and harmful effects on citizens and businesses. Therefore, the promotion of instruments to ensure competition rules safeguard the proper functioning of the market, as I have already had the opportunity to mention, but also consumer confidence. The proposal which brings us here reinforces the guarantees of independence and strengthens the powers of investigation and effectiveness of the counter-ordering procedure of the Competition Authority. in this framework, we promote the amendment of two essential diplomas: the legal regime of competition and the statutes of the Competition Authority itself. Among the main amendments, let me highlight some aspects advocated in the proposed law under discussion. First, in terms of strengthening the guarantees of independence, this bill specifies that the members of the board of directors, leaders and workers of the Competition Authority do not request or accept instructions from the Government or any other entity in the performance of their duties and also increase the list of incompatibilities. This bill amends the revenue sources of the Competition Authority and eliminates the proceeds of the fines charged as a form of financing of this entity. More: in the area of strengthening guarantees of independence, the bill determines the exclusiveness of the Court of Auditors with regard to the enforcement of financial control and the financial responsibility of the Competition Authority. On the other hand, as regards the strengthening of the powers of investigation and the effectiveness of the counter-order procedure, the proposal under discussion expands the type of elements that may be covered by the search and seizure of the Competition Authority within the scope of its tasks and requires the authorization by a judicial authority to access, from the outset, the premises and the seizure of elements and sealing of premises or registers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The diploma we present today to the Assembly of the Republic is, as I said, an important diploma to better ensure the existence of a uniform legal framework, capable and connected with the reality existing in the context of the single market, resulting, underlining, from the transposition of a European directive. This proposal aims at the independence and effectiveness of the national regulatory entity, after a process of public discussion, promoted by the Competition Authority itself. Of course, the Government, fulfilling the necessary and appropriate formalities, makes this same proposal today to the consideration of the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u120	I now give the floor to Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, first of all, I welcome you. I cannot say this in any other way: this bill that the Government is introducing to us is unconstitutional. It's even blatantly unconstitutional! I'm sorry to start like this, but that's what it is. In fact, this proposal is unconstitutional because it confers absolutely excessive powers to the Competition Authority, far beyond that which is admissible in the context of a fight that has a consequence: a figure of a purely counter-ordinary nature. Article 34. the Constitution is clear in this regard when it establishes the inviolability of communications. That is what we are dealing with, from the outset, in two principles, if I do not miss the memory of this diploma. Article 34. it states that this possibility exists only in the case of combating criminal practice. It is not at all that is at stake and, therefore, it is obvious that a typical figure of a police state is being created to defend competition. We don't accept that! We do not accept and the Constitution does not accept it! Clearly, it is a case of excessive means that are attributed to a strictly counter-ordinary combat. So, here is a flagrant unconstitutionality. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. and Mr. Members, I would like to add just one point: it cannot be because it is a transposition of a directive that this assessment of unconstitutionality is annulled. In fact, to understand that, as a transposition of a directive, it would end unconstitutionality, is to defend the possibility, then, of there being a constitutional review in continuum, whenever we have a directive to apply. We can't accept that! The primacy of Community law — Article 8 (4). that of the Constitution and not only, we see the conceptual definition — cannot go to the point of having standards, such as the directives, which bind with the purposes, but do not link with the means or time of application — so there is an act of transposition — and that, let us say, have a supranational value. from our point of view, this is not admissible! Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. and Mr. Members, we must realize that the legislator in Portugal, in this case the Government, is linked to the fulfilment of the Constitution. It cannot, on the pretext of an important objective, such as the fight against anti-competitive acts, create a serious injury to the rule of law, giving the Public Administration powers that are absolutely excessive. Mr. Secretary of State, to conclude, this is of course our appreciation. We cannot, however, follow this initiative and understand why it goes down to the Commission without a vote: it is likely to try to overcome this terrible misunderstanding. on our part, I wanted to make it very clear that this proposal is absolutely unacceptable for Portuguese democracy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u122	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Mr. Secretary of State for Trade, Services and Consumer Protection integrates the biggest government ever, the most expensive government ever, but not that circumstance prevents this government from arriving hardly in time and time at any time. Mr Secretary of State, this bill is just another example to add to many others, particularly in the case of the electronic communications law. Notice : the European Union directive to which this legislative initiative concerns the date of 11 December 2018, entered into force on 4 February 2019 and the deadline for transposition into national law ended on 4 February of the current year, but only now Parliament is called upon to appreciate the proposed law of the Government which exactly enshrines the transposition of this Community directive. Mr Secretary of State, the government has had time — more than time — to arrive in time and time. This is even more evident when it is public knowledge that the Competition Authority sent to the Government a proposal for a preliminary draft of this diploma on 3 April 2020, i.e. more than one year ago. Mr Secretary of State, we do not know the reasons for the government's delay, we do not know why the Government omitted the reference to that preliminary draft of the Competition Authority in the explanatory statement of this bill. He has also omitted any other studies or opinions that have substantiated his presentation. We do not know, Mr Secretary of State, and we could even highlight all of this if, at least, a good bill was presented to us, which would be a good transposition of this Community directive, but that is not something that is presented to us. Mr Secretary of State, what is presented to us is a proposal for a law which shows various risks of incorrect transposition of the directive, which implies, in terms of terminology, a number of inaccuracies which reduce the scope of the research powers of the Competition Authority, and this is in conflict with the Union's directive and competition law, and which, as already mentioned in the previous intervention, raises serious doubts as to its compatibility with constitutional standards, as inferred from the technical note drawn up by Parliament services, as inferred from the opinion of the Competition Authority and as inferred from the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission. But if all this is not enough, Mr. Secretary of State, what is presented to us is a bill that addresses the independence and autonomy of the Competition Authority, when the expected was exactly the opposite. In fact, the bill, Mr Secretary of State, not only does it not provide adequate guarantees of financial autonomy and human resources management as it does worse than that, introducing a new form of government intervention on the mission of the Competition Authority, as is, in fact, well visible in the wording of Article 40. the proposal of this law. Mr. Secretary of State read the first part, but he did not read the second part of Article 40. and, therefore, I will read it in its entirety. Mr Secretary of State said: 'The Competition Authority is independent in the exercise of its functions and is not subject to governmental oversight or protection, and the Government cannot direct instructions or recommendations or issue directives to the Board of Directors on its activities, or on the priorities to be adopted in the pursuit of its mission...'. What he did not say was the second part: «... but may be addressed by general strategic rules or guidelines on priorities not related to sectoral surveys or specific procedures for the application of Articles 101. o and 102. the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Secretary of State, I should like to say that this government position does not surprise us at all, because we have long known that the government is struggling with the independence of the regulators. It deals badly with the independence of regulators and does not miss an opportunity to control them, as you see again with this bill. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u124	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : This proposal for a law submitted by the Government and the Community directive which gave rise to it are based on the idea that strategic sectors of the economy should be in the hands of private persons, but, as privatization leads to monopolies, oligopoly or cartel situations, there is a need to create competition authorities, those authorities that will never be truly independent and impartial and therefore will never be able to prevent, indeed, abuses of market power. As high as the proclamations on free and healthy competition in the context of the European Union, the last decades have seen the failure of the neoliberal model of privatization of strategic sectors around the world and in the most varied sectors, adorned by mirror regulators who, at best, prove powerless and, in the worst case, complicities of the regulators and captured by them. This proposed law and the directive giving rise to it are supported by the idea that almost all legislation in the countries is insufficient or bad and that therefore Community legislation must be produced and powers conferred on the European Commission. Moreover, the concept itself underlying the rules of framework, operation and even legal interpretation, either with regard to the competition regime or with regard to the Statutes of the Competition Authority, leads to a level of fanaticism the primacy of Community legislation, to the extent that it is considered a primacy of automation in its own interpretation in the light of the Constitution of the Republic. The Competition Authority, in accordance with the intentions expressed by the Government and its proposals, appears as a more independent entity and the evidence of influence by the institutions of the Portuguese State, and increasingly integrated as a piece of a European machine that follows the risk of the guidelines and lines of action defined in the European Union, in addition to the evolution of the processes of federalist and supranational integration in the European Union, of which the Banco de Portugal, which takes the Portuguese branch condition of the European Central Bank, is an example, in particular. Mr Governor will say that he is not, but we « know what the house is spending». This bill points to substantive amendments to the competition law and to the Regulations of the Competition Authority. The proposal was submitted, almost with emergency signs, following the failure of the government to comply with the deadline in respect of the transposition of the directive, but these amendments should be considered very well. In fact, from the very beginning of the drafting of the bill itself, these amendments should have been well thought out, in order not to subject the Government and the Assembly of the Republic to such situations. Mrs. Members of the Government have already been referred here to the seriousness of unconstitutional standards, either in relation to Article 18. the, on the powers of search and apprehension, either in relation to Article 31. o on admissible evidence. It has already been widely explained that it is not acceptable to consider for processes of mere social and counter-ordinational order the type of searches and the type of state interferences that are assumed as if they were for criminal processes. Article 18 ( 2 ). the, when the Government proposes to determine whether the proceedings depend on the authorization of the competent judicial authority, the conclusion would be easy: they would never be authorised. But, moreover, neither the very definition of judicial authority, nor the reference to Mr. Juiz, assuming that they would not be thinking of the Public Prosecutor's Office, appears here. Now, Mr President-in-Office of the Council will say « we are confusing the tree with the forest and this is a specific matter within a broader proposal». The problem is that the forest itself here is a dangerous path that we must avoid. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u126	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u127	Mr President, in addition to the rules already examined and which are hardly compatible with our legal system, namely access to communications and traffic data — this is indeed not only a prerogative of our Constitutional Court but also of the Court of Justice of the European Union itself — in terms of access, it is not properly clarified in the Government's proposal how data can be accessed. And I stress that, for example, you can even access messages that have not yet been read by the visa, which have not even been accessed by the visa, which has to imply the strengthening of the warranties that the examining judge is present and that this happens only in duly anticipated cases. But then there are two elements that are contrary to the spirit of the law itself. For example, the ability to carry out searches, collections and seizures is further restricted because in the Government's proposal only the « visas » are referred to, contrary to what happens now, where the visa may be a company, but there may be difficulties in a number of companies which are associations and which are not, by the legal-material concept, « visas ». I believe that this is at least an issue which needs to be clarified in the specialty, as well as the question of the agent, because in the current law we have the figure of the "actor" of the Competition Authority and this figure is eliminated from now on, which leads us to question who is carrying out the dynamisms of the Competition Authority. Are they the collaborators? Could it be any employee? It is that the concept of "agent" is eliminated. There are, therefore, several aspects which need to be clarified and which, from a technical point of view, still deserve some deepening.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u128	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from the point of view of the purposes, this proposal for a law, by defending competition, by defending the smooth functioning of the internal market, as principles, deserves our concordance, without any doubt. But the truth is, looking at it carefully, there are essential warnings that need to be taken into account. And he drew attention to two types of alerts, the first of which is the one which gives us the opinion of the Competition Authority itself, which alerts us to an incorrect transposition of the directive in question when it does not provide for adequate guarantees of financial autonomy and human resources management. This is a problem that various regulators have raised, in fact has been more or less generalized. But here is another problem, which is no longer so widespread, which is the introduction of a new form of government intervention on the mission of the Competition Authority, promoting a limitation on the independence of this entity. It's worth a careful look at. But, moreover, it is not only the issues directly related to the Competition Authority that raise doubts. As far as this initiative is concerned, of course, subject itself to procedural or counter-ordinary law, and realizing that it is obvious that we have to get here, I cannot but say that we are very concerned about the low form as this is done, and that it has already been mentioned here by several Members. Members, as is the case, for example, in the case of the seizure of evidence in the digital environment, using expressions as'similar nature' to allude to the means of proof which are permitted. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about very serious and serious intrusions in the privacy of citizens, whether of companies or, therefore, on such sensitive subjects, the concepts must be defined in a completely strict manner, in order to avoid abuse. Even more worrying is the alert of the National Data Protection Commission, which stresses, and well, the dubious way in which Article 18 (2) is written. the legal regime of competition. This entity alerts that : « Once Article 18. it covers various types of research powers, with distinct impacts on the fundamental rights of citizens, it should be clarified that the provisions of paragraph 2 do not alter the exclusive competence of the judicial authority to authorize certain investigations, especially as regards electronic communications. Do not keep on seeking. ” This must be absolutely clear and it is a very serious matter, because we are talking about fundamental rights. Therefore, from this point of view, I think that there is a great deal of work to be done in the specialty if this proposal goes down to its Commission. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u130	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u131	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members : I would like to begin by saying that the Government of the Socialist Party and the Socialist Party, in particular, understand that the market-based economic model is the one that best defends the interests of consumers, the interest of citizens and even the best allocation of resources. We believe that, but we do not believe in that logic of a fully liberalized market, in which the "invisible hand" controls everything and self-regulates the market, i.e. we well know that the law of supply and demand in itself generates market failures. hence the importance of regulators and, in particular, the Competition Authority and its functions, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the market, avoiding such failures. Having said that, perhaps replying to the PSD Member, and putting aside the questions relating to delays — we are not here to make an account of delays in the transposition of Community directives from the PSD / CDS Government, it is not worth doing so, and even I think that it is clearly unfair that we have forgotten that we are at a stage of the pandemic which, of course, has delayed processes that were not, from our point of view, manifestly priority — I would like to tell you that, when it comes to the matter of the regulator's independence in this case, in particular the competition regulator, the only challenge I would suggest is to tell you here, in Parliament, and to the Portuguese people, how often this Government has intervened in the activity of the Competition Authority or has influenced the Competition Authority, but that it has not been perennially, clear and demonstrated that this has happened, because its intervention seems to have been the practice, that this has been the objective of this Government, and, on the contrary, has not been so. But let me also add something that seems very important to me. As regards what you have read in the transposition of the Community directive — because that is why it is not an invention by the Government, it is a transposition of a Community directive — on issues related to strategies and priorities, as an attempt by the Government to withdraw independence from the regulator, I would like to say that my parliamentary group clearly differs from the PSD Parliamentary Group for a very simple reason — and I think that the honourable Member will be right: that the matter relating to strategies and priorities is a matter of the State, it is not a matter of the regulator. In fact, you have tested this, and that is why, for example, with regard to the law on electronic communications and 5G, strategic and priority responsibility has remained in the hands of the regulator and, in some matters which are now being put, because of the regulator, the government cannot intervene. Therefore, Mr President, on this matter, it seems clear that we have diverged. Contrary to what you say, i.e. that this question puts less independence on the regulator, what I say is that it is essential for the defence of the state and for the protection of the consumer's interests. So we do not agree on this matter, which I think is obvious. The second question that I think is important and that has to do with the deepest controversy that has been debated in relation to this proposal is that of unconstitutionality. I do not want to focus the debate on this issue, but I also want to say that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has complete openness to discuss in the specialty the best way to overcome these doubts and arrive at a solution that is appropriate. However, for everything I have read during the debate on this proposal — not today, but before now — it is not entirely consensual that there is unconstitutionality. Moreover, in the effort that was made by the Competition Authority itself, in particular in the public consultation held, for example, to the Superior Council of the Magistrature, to the Order of Lawyers, to the Supreme Administrative Court, to the Public Prosecutor, there was no mention or criticism on this issue. So that's not consensual. Moreover, Mr José Manuel Pureza, in fact the primacy of European law must be looked at with balance and attention...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u132	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u133	... carefully, but you will give me reason that the construction of the European market and the European Union has also been done on the basis of the primacy of European law. It is sufficient to look at the final decision of the European Court of Justice on the German Constitutional Court and perhaps to think about it and make a decision on what you want from the point of view of the country. We know that we disagree on this matter, but we are at least consistent. Finally, with regard to the means, there is an effort here to clarify that the product of the fines of the Competition Authority does not serve its financing, which I think is essential, because the fines product could somehow imply a loss of independence on the part of the Competition Authority and that is indeed not healthy. I shall finish by saying that the PS Parliamentary Group has already submitted a request for this diploma to be brought down to committee without a vote. We have complete availability to, of course, evaluate the points that do not leave some benches comfortable.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u134	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u135	I will finish, Mr. President. He said that we should evaluate the points that do not leave some banks comfortable to find a solution and, in fact, have a robust, strong Competition Authority capable of keeping the market in operation to improve the living conditions of the citizens. PS applause.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u136	To use the time available to the PSD, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u137	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, it is not just us who differ from the Socialist Party and from the Government in respect of the independence and autonomy of the Competition Authority. It is the Competition Authority itself that disagrees with the Government and the Socialist Party. The opinion of the Competition Authority, which, as we certainly read, will also go in this direction and is very clear when it says: « The bill shows a risk of incorrect transposition of Articles 4. o is 5. the Directive. On the one hand, it does not provide for adequate guarantees of financial autonomy and human resources management...” — what is true! — '... and, on the other hand, introduce a new form of government intervention on the mission of the Competition Authority, which is contrary to the spirit of the Directive on strengthening and not limiting the independence of competition authorities'. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u138	To close this debate, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Trade, Services and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the various speeches. I think that, essentially, two questions have been raised about the proposed law that the Government is submitting. One concerns constitutionality and the other concerns the interference of the Government — in the words of some Members. Members — with regard to the Competition Authority. On the subject of constitutionality, I would like to make it clear that if the Government submits this bill it does not consider it unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u140	That's worrisome!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u141	Our understanding is that there will certainly be room for discussion in the field of specialty, so that the Assembly of the Republic, within its remit, and as the First Legislative House of the Portuguese Republic, can make due consideration of the rules that the Government suggests. But I would like to stress, in particular, something which has already been mentioned here and which goes in the direction of, at the public consultation promoted by the Competition Authority itself of a large set of institutions, none of these institutions have raised this issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] At the same time, I would like to raise awareness among the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the European Commission itself, other Member States of the European Union have powers similar to those which the Government is suggesting under this bill. I therefore believe that it is a matter which may deserve the best consideration in the field of debate in the specialty, because, indeed, it is a matter of strengthening the powers of supervision, of intervention by the Competition Authority, within the framework of a regulatory framework which requires, in this case, in particular, the authorization by a judicial authority. Another issue mentioned here concerns the possible willingness of the Government to interfere with the independence of the Competition Authority. There, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to mention that it seems not only unfair to me, as this accusation goes far too far. In addition to the arguments that have already been put forward by some Members. Members, in particular by Mr Carlos Pereira, would allow me to quote recital 23 of the Directive, which expressly states: « The competence of the national administrative authorities of competition, in order to give priority to their enforcement procedures, does not prejudice the right of the Government of a Member State to direct to the national administrative authorities of competition general strategic rules or guidelines on priorities that are not related to sectoral investigations or specific procedures for the application of Articles 101. o and 102. the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ». [[P.S.'s applause.]] Why did I mention this? Because it seems very important to me to bear in mind that this is a consideration of the directive that the Government in the proposed law which it submits to the consideration of the Assembly of the Republic considers that it must be transposed. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to make it quite clear that, in the view of the Government, there is no will or intention to challenge the independence of the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u142	I ask you to finish, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u143	In the view of the Government, with the exception of the best views of the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Members, there are also no serious constitutional issues, without prejudice to the own technical opinion of the Assembly of the Republic to raise some doubts which, as mentioned in that opinion, are likely to be overcome in the matter of discussion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u144	We therefore end this item on the agenda, and we move on to the following, which consists in the general assessment of the Bill No 100 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to establish the requirements for access and exercise of the activity of technicians of the Energy Certification System of Buildings. To begin the debate, I give the floor to Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Energy, João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing the bill that authorizes the Government to establish the requirements for access to the activity of SCE technicians ( Energy Certification System of Buildings ). Energy efficiency has been a priority. The Clean Energy package for All Europeans, presented by the European Commission, with a view to the development of a sustainable, competitive, competitive, efficient, safe and decarbonised energy system up to 2050 has devoted particular attention to buildings, which account for 36 % of total greenhouse gas emissions and 40 % of energy consumption. It is undeniable that buildings represent a considerable contribution to meeting the objectives of energy transition and carbon neutrality. The commitment to energy efficiency is one of the priority objectives of the Government's Programme, having already defined measures, objectives and ambitious targets on the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality up to 2050, on the National Energy and Climate Plan 2030, in the recent Long Term Strategy for Building Renewal and also in the renewal of the ECO.AP Programme, in the allocation of funds in the Social Stability Programme — which started at EUR 4 million and ended at over EUR 8 million — and in the PRR. We understand, in fact, that the cheapest energy is the energy that is not consumed, therefore, in all areas, and as a transversal objective of energy policy, energy efficiency is given priority. Complying with the designs of the clean energy package, the Government transposed the Community Directive on the energy performance of buildings by Decree-Law No 101 - D / 2020 of 7 December laying down the requirements for the design and renewal of buildings with a view to simultaneously modernising them, reducing consumption and emissions and safeguarding the comfort and health needs of their occupants, including family aggregates. In the light of the new Community framework, this decree also regulated the Energy Certification System of Buildings. The certification of the energy performance of residential and non-residential buildings is necessarily included in the resources and mechanisms to be mobilized for the promotion and development of their energy efficiency through, inter alia, the allocation of energy classes and the identification of opportunities for their improvement. in this sense, Decree-Law No 101 - D / 2020 provides for a set of tasks and obligations relating to the certification of the energy performance of buildings, the installation, maintenance, inspection of technical systems and the management of energy consumption, for which performance provides for the intervention of qualified technicians whose framework now needs to be updated. With this legislative authorization, the Government intends to legislate on the criteria for access and exercise of the activity of SCE technicians by recasting the requirements for experience and academic and vocational training and also initiating the review and updating of the offer of the national catalogue of eligible qualifications for this purpose. On the other hand, the Government intends to foresee new categories of SCE technicians, on the basis of new obligations related to the management of the consumption of buildings and their periodic inspection, subject to failure to comply with the objectives of the Decree-Law. Finally, and at the same time, the Government intends to ensure the proper safeguard of the current technical arrangements of the SCE by means of a transitional regime appropriate to the current and higher degree of technical rigor and complexity that the obligations related to the certification of energy performance and the installation and maintenance of technical systems determine. Thus, and in this sense, with this authorization of Parliament — if approved — the Government concludes the regulatory framework on the energy efficiency of buildings at the same time modifying the paradigm of the purely consumer real estate park for a fundamental instrument within the objectives of energy transition and carbon neutrality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u146	Mr Pedro Morais Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State: The Government makes a request for legislative authorization on a subject whose importance is recognized a priori by all of us, which is the energy certification of buildings. At present, I do not think there is any party in this House that does not recognize the relevance of this matter, not only for environmental sustainability, as you mentioned, but also for the well-being of all Portuguese families. in this sense, the requirements of access and exercise of the activity of the technicians of the Energy Certification System of Buildings cannot, however, be ignored. However, Mr Secretary of State, the Government justifies the need to review these requirements because the existing regime is outdated in view of the legislation currently in force, in particular the Statute of Decree-Law No 101 - D / 2020 of 7 December. Realizing the need for this update, we also need to understand whether it is proposed in the correct terms or whether there are some aspects that could or should be different. We can refer to the various criticisms contained in the opinion sent to the Assembly of the Republic by the Order of Technical Engineers. One of the criticisms made by the Order is that of the Agency for Energy in the provision of training. It refers to the Order, and it seems to us that with great reasonableness that training should be carried out by entities which are certified by the agency itself. So we ask the following: has the government listened to the Order? Why do you keep this exclusivity? But it wasn't just the Order of Technical Engineers that made criticism. The National Association of Qualified Experts of the Energy Certification System also notes that the National Energy Certification System is the most complex of the 27 countries in the European Union, involving hundreds of operations, evaluations of very difficult execution and evaluation, making the emissions of energy certificates increasingly expensive for the citizen and little valued by public opinion. This criticism should be of the highest importance on the part of the Government, since it is not the case that there is too much complexity in Portugal compared with our partners in the European Union. Finally, we cannot ignore the criticism and suggestion made by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which suggests that the products of fines resulting from counter-ordinations applied in autonomous regions constitute their own revenue. Is the Government — to question Mr Secretary of State — willing to accept this suggestion from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira? Finally, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot finish without leaving a final criticism of something that the government has unfortunately also used to us in this House. Knowing that, on a regular basis, the bills must be accompanied by studies, documents and opinions so that, in some way, they can be based on them, despite the Government, in the explanatory statement, to mention having held hearings, it did not, however, provide us with any studies, documents or opinions that have substantiated the presentation of the current bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u148	Mr Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two questions that we must separate. First of all, the intervention of the Secretary of State and then the proposal we are considering today — are two completely different realities. The question of the energy efficiency of buildings, especially in a country with the highest energy poverty buildings in the European Union, is undoubtedly a key issue for the Portuguese to have a higher quality of life in their housing park, because unfortunately we, in addition to the almost unbearable prices of energy in Portugal, also have a problem of energy poverty and not energy efficiency. Therefore, it is very important that there is a big step, that there is indeed public policies for the effective implementation of energy efficiency in our buildings, until we know that much of the population does not even have access to heating or air conditioning in their dwellings or workplaces, given the absolutely inappropriate prices they have. Turning to the subject which we are brought here today, which is indeed the regulation of a profession and the regulation of energy certification, which is another reality, I must begin with a regret, Mr Secretary of State, regarding the attitude of the Government: it is not the Rules of Procedure but the Constitution which says that legislative authorizations must be accompanied by the opinions based on the initiative, which, once again, did not happen. In fact, today I have drawn attention to this issue, because the Government, in constitutional terms, cannot continue to make requests for legislative authorisation along with the decree accompanying the initiative and then fails to meet one of the fundamental requirements, which is to send the studies, opinions and documents with the initiatives. This does not allow the Assembly of the Republic to be able to properly legislate and assess matters. Mr Secretary of State, this is one of those matters with which, in some way or another, with one criticism or another, we hope that the government will pay attention, we all agree, being important that progress is made and that the law conforms to European legislation. However, it is not so in all matters, and it is not due to the matter that can be breached by the Constitution—which, in fact, so much like to have at the tip of the tongue when it is appropriate and to ignore, too, when it is appropriate. Having said this, we are going to the regulation itself of the bill, because that is what we have to discuss, not so much the legislative authorizations. There are several issues that we cannot overcome. Some have already been mentioned here, in particular the order of Technical Engineers, which has to do with registration in the ADENE ( Energy Agency ). Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary of State, the Government has to decide whether or not it wants professional orders, because this contradiction actually has to do with transposing a European standard, taking into account that we also have an order and therefore we cannot duplicate it. There can be no registration in a professional order and at the same time require certification to be made by another association, when the orders themselves draw attention to this problem. Just like the duplication and complexity that we have, on the one hand, in training, the trainer is the sole certificater, in monopolie, because it does not even allow other entities certified by ADENE to provide such training. And that, Mr Secretary of State, is against what the government is talking about and that we all believe is fundamental, which is the simplification of procedures. We are bureaucratizing procedures and making them increasingly complex. Just listen to the Real Country, the owners, the entire sector of professional orders, the various professional classes concerned: all complain about the amount of formalisms and the amount of bureaucracy that is necessary to overcome. That was not enough, the government added even more bureaucracy, rather than simplifying. What is intended is simplification and therefore we hope that the government will still take these concerns into account and also the concern of the Madeira Regional Government, which we will also extend to the Azores, because what applies to one autonomous region must apply to the other, which is the issue of counter-ordinations. Co-ordinations are not taxed, they are fees, they always have a counterpart, so it is important that both autonomous regions benefit from this measure, although it was the Autonomous Region of Madeira that specifically called attention to this issue. But it is important that autonomous regions also benefit from the amounts that come from the autonomous region itself when there is no participation. Mr Secretary of State, I hope that the Government will be sensitive to these issues so that we can achieve true and effective energy efficiency in Portugal and are not diverting the subject from the poverty in which we all live. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u150	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nelson Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law is to establish more demanding requirements for the energy certification activity of buildings, which, of course, we follow. But being a theme that is so expensive to the NAP, we cannot fail to take advantage of the opportunity to highlight some aspects within that which is the problem of the energy efficiency of buildings in Portugal. According to the European Union study assessing the thirty energy efficiency strategies delivered by European countries, only three building renewal strategies do not meet basic requirements, Germany, Portugal and Poland. Energy poverty was addressed well in most strategies, being recognized as a growing socio-economic issue, with serious health, well-being, economy and environment consequences. It is mentioned that Portugal is one of the countries with higher levels of energy poverty, and no measures have been proposed by Portugal to combat it. In this study and in a score of 1 to 5, Portugal obtained 3, 5 in the identification of the housing park, 0 ( zero) in the identification of effective cost approaches, 3 in policies that encourage efficient cost buildings renewals, 2, 5 in the view of investment policies, 0 ( zero) in the expectations of energy saving and other benefits. At the global score, Portugal is in the penultimate place in Europe, just behind Poland. Palms for our country.... One of the many rankings in which Portugal stands and which is not, at all, a cause for pride. Given the importance of energy efficiency in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and combating energy poverty, which is about 20 % of the national population, it is absolutely important to encourage energy efficiency of buildings through support for families, depending on their income levels, including by direct, partially reimbursable support, and by tax incentive, to encourage energy efficiency in businesses and to combat energy poverty. We presented a draft resolution in February, which was rejected by the PS, which proposes precisely that the Government set up a financial mechanism to support energy efficiency in buildings and to combat energy poverty in which companies and families benefited from energy consulting to improve their efficiency. It is incomprehensible that for this Government 20 % of people in Portugal who have to choose between hunger or cold go away are still not a priority. This government prefers to continue giving EUR 500 million of the State budget in subsidies for the use of oil to EDP (Energy of Portugal ) and so on than to take that money and channel it to the about two million people in Portugal who cannot afford the heating and cooling of their homes, many of them ending up dying in cold. And this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it says a lot about the people who rule our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u152	I now give the floor to Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : The Government submitted this bill on May 21, which amends the requirements for access to the activity of technicians of the Energy Certification System of Buildings. We have already seen the Government's haste to see the transpositions of the directives adopted this afternoon, but we agree that the time has not been given and, above all, the documentation needed from the opinions which should follow the proposal for this matter, with this complexity, to be fully examined by the Assembly of the Republic before this discussion, especially since it is a discussion that ends here, because it is a legislative authorization and there is no speciality, so there should be another type of element for the Assembly of the Republic to decide on this matter. This proves that only two opinions have been reached at the Assembly of the Republic: one from the Order of Technical Engineers and one from the National Association of Qualified Experts ( ANPQ ) of the SCE. And here we start by questioning the government because they both complained that they were not properly heard. ANPQ says: « We request the right to be heard, taking into account our activity as the main agents in the field of the application of the requirements of the Building Energy Certification System, which has escaped legislators ». It's a criticism of this association. We would like to know whether the Government has heard it and also what a response it gives to the Order of Technical Engineers, who complains that they have not been properly heard in their demands. The question remains also: what other entities have been heard by the government? Because we only have these two opinions, we have no other opinion on this matter. This is, however, important because we are talking about the regulation of access to a profession, and we cannot want to legislate in a hurry and for mere legislative authorization without hearing the entities representing the visas, which go a long way there these two entities mentioned here. But considering only these two opinions, we put here some questions that are raised in them and we would like to have clarification from the Government. Does ADENE, the Energy Agency, which is a private legal entity, have responsibilities for the issue of professional qualifications and also accumulate training functions with examinations? The questions raised by the Order of Technical Engineers on qualification levels for the category TRM (technical responsible for the installation and maintenance of technical systems), extending access to more qualified professionals, are they or are they not justified and may or may not be accepted by the Government? Does it make sense that a qualified expert who makes a specialized project of water or sewage is thus prevented from making energy certification? What additional costs may represent this impediment which apparently is not justified and two different specialties are at stake? There are objective ways of classifying what is an infringor, with all subjectivity of energy certification, and considering that who evaluates has the same qualifications as who is evaluated, as the ANPQ points out? In addition to professional and court orders, does it make sense to have another entity that can prevent access to the profession of qualified expert? Does or does not make sense of a differentiation between housing buildings and small service buildings, in which reference solutions can be applied, and more complex buildings, which will then require a more complex methodology of energy certification? Does it make sense to have that differentiation or not? Does the Government consider that the criteria for assessing quality within the SCE are already disproportionate to the risk of possible malpractice? This is to say that with only two opinions there are many issues that have been raised to us, but above all we do not know that other problems could be raised if we knew the position of other entities. But perhaps they can help us in that clarification. One thing is certain: the Government would have done better to have submitted a bill in time, with opinions, which could be properly appreciated, in a normal process of specialty, and which would have allowed to clarify all the issues raised. Not doing so, it is subject to the decision by the Assembly of the Republic on the basis of the information it has available and the clarifications that are being provided here today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u154	Mr Filipe Pacheco, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u155	Mr President, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Energy, Mrs and Mr. Members: The Government today asks this House for a legislative authorization to reformulate the requirements for access and exercise of the activity of technicians of the Energy Certification System of Buildings. For the Socialist Party, this proposal comes in a much broader, broader context, a path that the current government has been going on to accelerate the energy transition, having as one of the major foundations of this path the vector of energy efficiency. As we live in times when it is often necessary to reaffirm the obvious, I think it is never too much to remember that in the area of energy efficiency and the improvement of the environmental performance of buildings, the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which has even been criticised by several parties in this House, has provided more than 600 million euros in support. We have a number of energy efficiency palladins here and it is therefore important to remember the EUR 300 million planned for support for the residential sector, EUR 250 million for the Public Administration and EUR 70 million for services. These funds are not just a mirage, they are already being implemented on the ground and this is an example of the recent launch of the second phase of implementation of the Most Sustainable Buildings Support Programme, with EUR 30 million, and it is also public that, as soon as this money runs out, we will have the opening of new tenders. This specific programme is very important because it covers new buildings and energy efficiency not only applies to construction but also to the installation of equipment. In addition to these concrete measures, the truly structural change that the Government and the country are making is to put energy efficiency at the heart of all political decisions. An example of this is the money entered in the PRR for several other areas, such as housing or public buildings, such as hospitals or health centres, which will have to be spent scrupulously respecting the principles of energy and environmental efficiency. In other words, even indirectly, these funds are also a real investment in energy efficiency. All these are contributions to an ambitious design, in fact, the Secretary of State has already mentioned it, which has to do with the long-term strategy for the renovation of buildings, with quite ambitious objectives such as the rehabilitation of 100 % of the building up to 2050, and investment needs are expected to be in the order of EUR 143 billion in the coming decades. Therefore, this need for investment must begin now and, with what the government is doing, it is starting now. This is, therefore, the first context in which the proposal for a genuine commitment to a sustainable development strategy based on decarbonisation and energy transition arises. to the PSD, which talked a lot about energy poverty, I say that these are the real structural reforms. Remembering what happened in your government, it was precisely at that time that all the policies to combat energy poverty, to bet on renewable energies, and out there. [[PSD protests.]] The second context justifying this request for legislative authorisation is the need to comply with the transposition of European directives. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] The Government has transposed several directives and, of course, there is a need to adapt the profiles and criteria for access to this profession, which is basically what we are discussing. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that this proposal has a very positive aspect that should be emphasized, that this diploma does not create additional limitations on access to the professions concerned, on the contrary. This is very important because now, with this government, energy efficiency is a real bet from the country, we also open up the opportunity for creating and maintaining job opportunities that we cannot waste. in this case, the limitation of access to these professions already existed, the activity was already highly regulated and this decree-law does not create new restrictions, it only adapts the profession to the new legal framework. In addition, this diploma also recognizes the formal and informal part of the acquisition of competences, which we believe is appropriate to the socio-professional reality of our country. For all this, we understand that this legislative authorization makes all the sense, but, above all, what makes sense to us is the way in which the government and the country are going to solve a structural problem in terms of energy efficiency and which is an important part of a much more broad energy transition strategy that the country is doing, yes, structuring for the future of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u156	Mr José Moura Soeiro, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The promotion of energy efficiency is an issue that must obviously deserve our attention and commitment to public policies. Energy efficiency is also seen as essential things such as fair climate transition or combating energy poverty, and several parliamentary groups have already referred to this issue. This bill refers, however, to a very specific aspect of this debate and has to do with the access and professional exercise of the technicians of the Energy Certification System. When the diploma before this proposal was discussed in Parliament in 2013, it was within the framework of transpositions of services directives which basically aimed at the liberalisation of these services. It was in this context that the diploma was discussed and criticized by the left, precisely by creating a greater restriction on access, by contributing to precariousness and to lower professional safety in this sector. That is why the benches on the left of the Socialist Party voted against at the time. Already this year, within the framework of this discussion, the National Association of Qualified Experts of the Energy Certification System, one of the few opinions that we could have access to, has drawn attention to the fact that our Energy Certification System is the most complex of the 27 countries of the European Union, warning about the inaccessibility, in terms of costs, of energy certificates for citizens. There are also objections, which have already been invoked here by the Order of Technical Engineers. In fact, this is a diploma—you must recognize it! — with an eminently technical nature and whose discussion would benefit greatly from the dialogue held with those who are most within the details of the exercise of this profession. Therefore, we ourselves feel that the requirement that the Assembly of the Republic should make is that this dialogue be more in-depth, that there are more elements, on the basis of the request that the Government make us a legislative authorization, may indeed appear to be a kind of request for a blank check, because this certainly will not be comfortable for Parliament to give. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u158	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the conclusion of this debate and, to this end, of course, it can accumulate the 2 minutes of this phase with the time of 1 minute and 58 seconds that it still has, the floor is Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Energy, João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In response to what was asked by several sides, we sent out the opinions we had at the time. Do not forget that this is a legislative authorization and most of the opinions will come when the Council of Ministers adopts the above-mentioned decree. Then we will send out all opinions and Parliament will always, of course, be able to appreciate the decree. Therefore, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, does not lead me to harm, but, on the constitutional issues which you have referred to, the Government is not even obliged to send the bill together with the proposed legislative authorization and, as such, there is no constitutional violation, contrary to what you have said. [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] We will send all opinions and, obviously, when the decree-law is passed, we will receive more opinions from other entities, so we commit ourselves to sending them all. If there is a problem in this bill, Parliament can always appreciate it. Some topics have also been mentioned here, such as the alleged exclusivity of ADENE in training, but that is not true. ADENE does not have the exclusivity of training, it only has the exclusivity of certification. As far as training is concerned, ADENE can give it in accordance with its statutes, but it does not have exclusivity at all. On the issue of fines and autonomous regions, we fully agree, without any doubt, that it must be taken from the two regions. I believe that this question has been raised by the Autonomous Region of Madeira, but of course it will apply to both of us. With regard to some of the questions raised regarding technical engineers, and ADENE is the managing entity of the SCE, which has always been — it is not a novelty of this government, that since its genesis, it has its own competences and there are acts practiced by ADENE – we consider that this certification must be paid and that it is not enough to certify the Order of Engineers, since there is no overlap because they deal with different matters. There were other questions, of greater detail, raised by Mr José Soeiro. I do not know whether this question has been raised by the honourable Member, but it has been asked why they could not accumulate. Often specialist projects should be analysed by energy certification, so in order to avoid conflicts of interest, qualified experts who issue energy certificates cannot themselves be the designers, and hence the separation. As regards the provisional withdrawal of technicians who are condemned by practice, they may, in certain circumstances, be subject to an accessory penalty of temporary prohibition of activity also does not seem abusive to us. The publicity of the sentencing decision comes from the faculty that the general system of counter-ordinations provides, therefore, we also believe that it is not abusive, and the limits of the fines are designed to create an appropriate counter-ordering framework that is proportionate to the objectives of the Building Energy Certification System, with no intention or objective of humiliation of the class. There is only recognition of the particular complexity and sensitivity of these issues and therefore the sanction framework should be appropriate. I conclude by commenting on what Mr PAN said. Mr President, what you said about energy efficiency has a problem. It is that after that report, the ECO.AP regime has been fully revised; it has been fully transposed all the energy efficiency related directives and portals; the Social Emergency Programme has been approved, in which payments of about 9 million euros have been made for energy efficiency; and it has been included in the PRR that it... [[Protests by PAN Member Nelson Silva.]] I am not finished yet, Mr President, with something strange that you do not know. I'm a little puzzled, I confess. By correcting what you said, don't hurt me, we don't have EUR 600 million for energy efficiency. We have EUR 600 million for energy efficiency, plus the EUR 1500 million of housing, which will also have to follow the energy efficiency guidelines, and all interventions in buildings, whether they are made by social security or health, will have to respect the principles of energy efficiency. Therefore, Mr President, we have a lot more than 600 million euros for energy efficiency, thus showing the priority given by this government to this matter. I would like to add two details, Mr President, that are very strange to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u160	You have to finish, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u161	I will finish, Mr. President. Portugal is in the European top 5 of the reduction in energy consumption of buildings, and now I am very surprised that you do not know why you cannot know - after the intervention you have made! — Portugal has presented a national strategy for energy poverty which has not been mentioned in this report, which it has been in public consultation for a very short time. We are finishing the public consultation report and we will end the national strategy to combat energy poverty in close dialogue with all those concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u162	You really have to finish, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u163	What is strange is that the NAP, which is so interested in combating energy poverty, has demonstrated, through its only Member present at this session, not knowing that this strategy exists, not knowing that the public consultation has been made and not knowing that we are currently... [[Protests by PAN Member Nelson Silva.]] If you knew, Mr. Deputies, then you hadn't said what you said. [[PS Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u164	It's another hand full of nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u165	After the discussion on this point, we moved on to the debate on the Annual Internal Security Report — 2020, which is commonly known as RASI. You recomposed the benches, I begin by giving the floor to Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrito, to intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As Mr President has well identified, we are discussing the annual report on internal security for the year 2020, and as we all know, for the multiple debates we have been working on, it has been a truly exceptional year. In addition to the requirement in all functions that characterize Portugal as one of the most secure countries in the world, it was a year marked by the need for additional efforts to the security forces in the context of their tasks, in safeguarding health security, in the application of a set of rules, maximum in periods of emergency which, for the first time in a democratic framework, we live throughout 2020 as well as in the framework of a set of measures aimed at protecting those who have been victims of the disease and safeguarding public health. I wanted to convey a deep recognition to the women and men who serve Portugal in the security forces and who have contributed decisively so that, in this context,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... unlike some European countries, this period had been marked by such a significant reduction in both general crime, which had been reduced by 11 % or by violent and serious crime, which had been reduced by 13 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would say that these 2020 results — which, essentially, in the preliminary data available by May 2021, have been reaffirmed, have justified Portugal, for the fifth consecutive year, to be considered one of the world's four most secure countries and that we can even say that the five years of governance of the Socialist Party correspond, since there is RASI, that is, since 1989, to the five years with the lowest rates of general crime and violent and serious crime. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is, in times of particular difficulty, the consolidation of a trend marked by high internal safety standards. And that is why we should go even further in identifying areas that force us to mobilize for remaining risks. Domestic violence, which has dropped 5, 5 %, remains the most reported crime and therefore the government has initiatives on the subject and national action must be strengthened here. Everything that is computer crime has grown: computer jokes and also cybercrime-related areas, new areas of action to which we should be careful. Finally, the risks of radical movements, extremists, especially of extreme right, are signalled in Portugal as in some European countries. That is why the adoption of mechanisms such as the new mandate of Europol or the regime on the eradication of online terrorist content within the Portuguese Presidency already contributes in 2021 to consolidate the path of a safe and confident country in our security forces and services. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u167	Mr Duarte Marques, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal has been a safe country for many years. That is why the annual discussion here on RASI is one of the most consensual, repetitive and transversal that Parliament knows. Obviously it is a great sign to see that Portugal remains a country where it lives in security and with low crime rates, as the RASI informs us. But it was already so in 2009, when the RASI of that year detected 39 crimes per 1000 inhabitants, it was so in 2010, but it was also so in 2012, in 2013, in 2014. Since 2007, when Portugal, alone, was already a country with low crime, it has always been coming down. The fact that Portugal continues to be a safe country does not mean that the Minister or the Government deserves a medal. Portugal is a safe country thanks to several factors, which pass through Portuguese culture, the quality of our security forces and, of course, the stability of policies. This fact makes it clear that such a level of peace and security is not due to this or any government in particular and much less to this Minister. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Moreover, as recently emphasized by the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System, Portugal is in fact a safe country, and therefore it is not seen the need for such profound reforms in the Foreign and Border Service, with clear implications for the stability of security forces. It is important to praise the capital of knowledge acquired by this force, but above all to emphasize the importance of the specialization of the internal security device, as opposed to a concentration of powers in such sensitive areas as the sovereign exercise of authority. The proof that this context of security is structural is that neither the incompetence nor the instability nor even the lack of credibility of the current Minister of Internal Administration has changed that. Portugal is and continues to be a safe country. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is for these reasons that the triumphalism of Eduardo Cabrita and the Government with the significant low crime and road sinequality makes no sense. That's ridiculous! In fact, it is RASI itself—as we know, it is granted by the Minister of Internal Administration—which refers precisely to the fact that the highest rate of crime and sinequality coincides with the beginning of confinement. This fall is therefore only a positive externality in a misfortune that has come upon us all. But in this report there are two areas of concern: domestic violence and cybercrime. And for these, Minister, we need to ensure that we can provide our security forces and services with the means and capacity to provide more effective answers in this area. I am leaving to the end, Mr Minister, Mr President, Mr and Mr. Members, the two most worrying areas that depend not only on citizens, on their behaviour, but on the action of the government. I would say that what the Government has failed the most and most depends on its ability to implement is the programming law. in this regard, the implementation rate is currently 50 %, in the last of the five years it foresees. I should like to point out, Mr Minister, that the only area with 99% of implementation is the purchase of cars, which I hope are already tight and are not waiting for Mr. Minister's agenda to get to the hands of the police in a public presentation. In terms of infrastructure, the degrading conditions of many quarters and posts of the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) and the PSP ( Public Security Police) are known, where men and women live under even worse conditions than we saw in the images of the immigrant workers of Odemira, who shocked us all. And, Mr Minister, in this matter, your Ministry has executed only 7, 4 %. In four years, of five, they executed 7, 4 %. Ninety-two percent left to run! This is revealing, it's shocking, it's revolting! It's the de-investment, it's the austerity dressed in roses, Minister! This is unacceptable! If we check the human resources, the number of people in the GNR and the PSP, this farce created by the government has come to reveal, it highlights, in essence, that there is a decrease of about 300 people in the actual. That is why, Mr Minister, in this case we are opposed to the fact that the Government, even if it does not give the security forces a chance to carry out its tasks with capacity, continues to give them new capabilities, new objectives, new responsibilities. I give you the example of GNR, who can't even have a patrol for each municipality at the weekend and it happens that, within the country, the same patrol goes through four municipalities. Therefore, we do not understand the strength that the government wants to give them in order to increase their powers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u169	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u170	I shall finish now, Mr President, just with a message that we cannot forget. Fortunately for Portugal, security forces and services have quality and, despite the lack of quality or credibility of the Minister of Internal Administration, they continue to play their role in quality, rigour and ensuring the safety of Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u171	Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The 2020 Annual Internal Security Report must be read with the greatest of the cautions. Last year, almost as a whole, it was lived in anticipation of a global pandemic crisis, which imposed on all Portuguese and Portuguese a life in contingency and confinement. It is clear, therefore, that when it is celebrated that violent crime has decreased by more than 13 % and that road-trafficking has fallen by about 20 %, it is impossible to dissociate it in a year of quarantine and a huge reduction in the movement of people. It is also extremely difficult to accept that at the end of March, the Minister of Internal Administration welcomed the apparent reduction in domestic violence by 6 % in 2020 compared with 2019. Now, the United Nations notes that cases of gender-based violence have spread as a parallel pandemic that threatens half the world's population. It is clear from the specific nature of this crime that these numbers in the report do not reflect Portuguese reality. We're talking about people who found themselves confined to their own aggressors. All the more so that the United Nations and the organizations on the ground do not make this decrease in numbers clear. Any kind of vanity in view of this decrease, which appears to be merely statistical, is absolutely unacceptable. Accepting these numbers without further analysis is the way for a relaxation of measures on a topic that is a real scourge in Portugal and for which there is still so much to be done in combating this type of violence. This report is also a paradox in the area of corruption. When we look at the 2020 Corruption Perception Index, Portugal has the lowest score ever and is miles from the European Union average values. But when we look at RASI and the number of open surveys, we see that for the second consecutive year that number falls by almost 23 %. In the light of RASI, and in front of contradiction with the understanding of the international reference organizations, we live in an oasis of transparency, in which it is believed that everything is resolved with the National Strategy for Combating Corruption, of the Government, which is indeed so poor that it cannot even understand that in order for there to be a status of the complainant, consequently, with useful effect, protection measures should not only apply to people within the organization. It is only that, Minister, it is never too much to remember that there would be no Panama Papers or Luanda Leaks without complaints outside the organization. Related to corruption is the issue of weddings of convenience involving citizens of Cyprus. The NAP has repeatedly warned the Government that the tightening of the visasgold rules in Cyprus is leading fugitives to justice — and that they have seen Cypriot gold and they have been removed — to see in Portugal and its programme of golden visas the door to access the Schengen area, i.e. access to a money laundering with a guarantee of impunity and, of course, to escape justice in their countries of origin.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u173	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u174	I will now finish, Mr President. Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, we have already learned about the scheme of visasgolds and have now discovered in RASI the scheme of weddings of convenience. How many more schemes will be needed until we see the government take steps to prevent our country from being used as a laundry and shelter for fugitives to justice with Cypriot nationality?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u175	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to say, Mr Minister, that you were expected to come here, at the moment of the RASI presentation, to exercise seriously, rigorously and without propaganda, but we already realize that you are not capable. He can't do it. And a serious, rigorous and unadulterated exercise implies, of course, a very simple thing: to relate these RASI numbers to the circumstances we live in, the pandemic. That would be serious, rather than having done a pure propaganda exercise. In fact, if we look at the numbers, what has decreased? It has decreased — and seriously, keeping a trend for many years in our country — violent crime, theft on the public road, violence on the streets, a number of things, because, as it is evident, they could not have happened. What has increased, according to this RASI? He added to the joke, especially the joke with computer equipment. And why will it be? Why are there more computer jokes when everyone's locked up at home? Oh, my God! It has increased lenocinium and some sexual crimes—for which we have already presented a legislative initiative—particularly related to minors, obviously when people are closed at home. And we can have, as has been said here, and well, hidden figures, which should have been assumed in respect of domestic violence, because it is very natural that this crime is hidden when people are, too themselves, shut down at home. Therefore, the first reality of this RASI is its relationship with the pandemic. For example, it has increased—of course, great surprise! — the crime of disobedience. Of course! How many people have the authorities had to monitor because of their pandemic-related behavior? Oh, my God! It's obvious! That is, the numbers of this RASI are obvious and this required seriousness and not propaganda. But you always prefer to advertise and create the idea that, by the action of the Government of the Socialist Party or, in particular, of the Ministry of Internal Administration, things are going very well. It is a reading, I would say, "beyond Baghdad." And I don't say "beyond Baghdad" by chance, it's because it was in Baghdad that there was the famous propaganda minister who, when you see tanks passing by, said the war was being won. So that's what we have: propaganda and more propaganda. On the contrary, I would say that this RASI has positive numbers, globally, despite everything that has happened in the Internal Administration. In other words, despite the wrong and late manner as it reacted to the case of the Ukrainian citizen, despite the case of flammable goals, despite the errors and nonsense related to Zmar and Odemira, despite denying the problem of illegal immigration landings in the Algarve, although nothing has been done to control football celebrations, despite the fact that the error has been repeated shortly afterwards in the city of Porto, with Champions, despite all this, global numbers are positive. And despite also the lack of investment, as has already been mentioned here. In fact, we have investment numbers that, in some cases, are around 45 % and in other cases, in terms of equipment, it is not even half. For example, for GNR posts 60 million were budgeted and 4 million were executed. Therefore, they are very low execution rates and there is still no risk allowance, no effective support.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u177	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u178	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. This is the reality of a government which is, from this point of view and as regards a particular minister, increasingly unauthorized and with increasingly affected credibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u179	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Is it good to have a report that presents us with a reality of low rates of violent crime? Yes, of course! Is it good to have a picture of a country that has as its essential feature low rates of insecurity that seriously affect people’s lives? Of course it is! Therefore, the first note is that, of course, in this report there are reasons for us to look with some pleasure at what is the Portuguese reality. That said, it is quite different to make this a more or less epic reading that it is a result that has been achieved thanks to decisive political intervention in this area. We know — it has already been said by several Members and I associate myself with this opinion — that much of what has just been mentioned here as a low of some criminality rates has everything to do with the circumstance of confinement, has everything to do with this abnormal situation. In some ways, we can say that the activity of many people has been computerized and that it has also been computerized what are factors of insecurity and that they are particularly important crime factors. I am therefore pleased, no doubt, but a pleasure that must be realistic, given what are the circumstances we are living in the year to which the report refers. That said, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is worth pointing out some sectors covered by the report and that we, the Left Block, deserve particular attention, let us say so, and the first has to do with domestic violence, of course. The Minister has already stressed what is important to be underlined, that is, that is the most involved criminal typology in its various forms, and that, among crimes against people, domestic violence, according to RASI, is the crime with the greatest incidence, a little above 30 %, which obviously leads to the fact that as a society, as a Parliament, as political leaders, we continue to pay full attention to the prevention and repression of these situations, because the decline in the number of cases, of course, cannot stop the government or slow down the prevention and protection measures in cases of domestic violence. The second area I wanted to mention relates to trafficking in human beings. As is clear from RASI, most of the cases reported or referred to in the case of trafficking in human beings, without surprise, relate to situations of occupational exploitation. Nevertheless, it is worth stressing that RASI realises that fewer investigations have been carried out in this area, which means that this is a worrying fact because it is certainly portrayed by default rather than by the rigour that should happen. The third field that deserves particular attention is that of the growth of radical movements of extreme right. The Report alerts us to the increase of these movements and to their spread of propaganda, including negationist propaganda within the pandemic, and I would like to quote the Report when it says that it is recommended to continue intervention on phenomena of violence, creating mechanisms that discourage racist behaviors, xenophobics, sexists and other manifestations of intolerance, stimulating civic behavior and tranquility in the use of public spaces. Finally, one last note, Minister, Mrs de Sr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to an absence in this report, which relates to insecurity and crimes committed according to sexual orientation. In fact, this is a matter of particular sensitivity. As we well know, we may not be talking about a large number of cases, but we are certainly talking about cases that are of extreme violence, both physical and symbolic nature, which clearly introduces insecurity factors in a large group of people in our country. It would therefore be appropriate for the Minister to pay greater attention to this segment of our reality and for the next internal security reports to be able to give us a more faithful picture of what is reality, quantitatively and qualitatively. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u181	Mr António Filipe of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u182	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Of course, being this 2020 Report, it is very marked by the pandemic with which we have all been confronted. With regard to this, it is obvious that this situation has consequences for the reduction of some types of crime and for the increase of others, as has already been mentioned, and there the concern about domestic violence is legitimate concern and the concern about computer jokes is obviously a concern that needs to be present, but it also translates into a requirement for professionals, forces and security services, so it is fair to emphasize the importance that these professionals have had, the effort that has been required for them in this situation and the dedicated and competent form of response to this situation. In fact, it is worth a word of recognition for these professionals and for the quality of our security forces, faced with such a demanding challenge for their functions in the context of this epidemic. I believe that for several years and several governments, in fact, the levels of crime have been reduced and therefore we can say today, either in absolute terms or in relative terms, that Portugal has a good position as a safe country and can stand before the world and itself as a safe country. But a few years ago—and I mean particularly at the end of the 20th century—it wasn't like that, I repeat, it wasn't. And what happened to make it that way? It is that there have been significant changes and one of them has to do with the so-called drug law, which was approved about two decades ago,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u184	...because much of the crime we were discussing here was associated with drug addiction, was associated with the small drug traffickers who were, at the same time, drug addicts — it was the theft by the public highway, it was the theft of auto radios, it was the assault on cars, the assault on residences. Therefore, it is good to note that the legislative amendments which the right so contested at the end of the 20th century, concerning drugs, had a very significant impact on the safety and tranquility of the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u186	On the other hand, I also refer to the abandonment of the policy of concentration of police officers, in which the then Minister Dias Loureiro, Minister of the Interior Administration of Cavaco Silva, who was betting on the superstations, in the concentration of police forces. This policy has been abandoned by security forces and services on behalf of a people's proximity policy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u188	... that we always defend and that in fact also had a significant impact on improving security conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u189	Get out of Lisbon and go see the proximity!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u190	Mr Duarte Marques, who recently praised the fact that Portugal is a safe country, he is evidently changing his opinion or at least this irritates him. [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] But, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will allow me, I believe that there are aspects that deserve particular attention in the light of the data in this report. First of all, it is necessary to improve the implementation of the Infrastructure Programming and Equipment Law of the Forces and Security Services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u191	Improving? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u192	... which is at a low level, in particular with regard to infrastructure. Well, I know that in the time of the PSD and CDS there was no law, because they ended it, but, despite that, an execution of 50%... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] If Mr Duarte Marques will excuse me, Mr President, I will conclude. In fact, the implementation rate for infrastructure is reduced and mechanisms need to be adopted, such as, inter alia, effective recruitment, which was adopted in the State budget for 2021, so that there are no balance transitions, so that this money is not lost and, in fact, what is planned to be invested in infrastructure is effectively invested.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u193	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u194	It is important, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u195	It's all a wonder!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u196	If you let me finish, I would like to say that it is important to continue the effort to recruit effective personnel to address very old deficits in security forces and that it is necessary to give due recognition to professionals. To this end, the work being carried out with regard to the future allocation of the risk allowance must be successful and there are worrying signs in this matter for which I wanted to warn, because it is important, in addition to the words of height, that there are acts of recognition of the work of the personnel of the security forces and services and there the conditional risk allowance is fundamental...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u197	Finally!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u198	...to make this recognition from words to acts. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u199	Mr. André Ventura has the floor now. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u200	Mr President, Minister : I would like to begin by saying that, today, what Mr Minister should mention, first of all, when he arrived, regardless of the matter we were dealing with, was the shameful risk subsidy that was allocated to the security forces. It is unbelievable, after years of struggle, that these men and women continue to be treated this shamefully. But seeing the PCP here defend the Socialist Party's security policy as if it were all right, the PCP, which a few years ago claimed, when the PSD and CDS were in power, more men, more means and more security policies, has now turned and is more PS, more PS, more PS and less security! It's incredible to see how it's possible that the management continues to suffocate everything it can. [[PS protests.]] But also, Minister, let me say that reaching this plenary and saying that "we are the safest country in the world, look at the data", and point out crimes that in a country in the state could never increase, that is the same as saying - and I apologize there for the example and not lead me to harm - that have diminished road crimes because everyone is closed at home. I mean, one thing like this doesn't remember the crack! It's getting here and doing a propaganda exercise like you've never seen before! I shall conclude, Mr President, because I know that my time is running out, calling on the Minister to look once at the budgetary implementation data on security and infrastructure policy which his party has supported and which has only been executed by 30 %. The data is this, the facts are these, the rest is socialist propaganda, mounted in the morning at night...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u201	And in the morning!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u202	...to deceive whoever's out there to see.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u203	Mrs. Susana Amador from the PS has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u204	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: We are discussing today the Internal Security Report on the year 2020 and once again we affirm that internal security is a fundamental axis of the state of democratic law and an essential pillar for the freedom of citizens, contributing to a society that we want free, tolerant, just and democratic, but unfortunately not all of us. I could not fail to underline the importance and success of the Portuguese Presidency here with significant progress in the area of migration, such as the Regulation of the European Union Asylum Agency, which will be responsible for improving the functioning of the Common European Asylum System, or the agreement reached on the Blue Card Directive. In the area of police cooperation and internal security, this bench welcomes the Government for the general guidance on the revision of the Europol regulation, together with the adoption of the regulation on combating the spread of terrorist content, and also the Council conclusions on the impact of the pandemic on the threat posed by terrorism and violent extremism. Mr Minister, as you mentioned, Portugal has registered the lowest rates of criminality ever in 2020, showing that the internal security structure has maintained its effectiveness and strengthened it, because that is what this is about. 2020 was a year of pandemic, but in the previous year, as in the previous year and still in the previous year, this trend has been consolidated and therefore the pandemic and confinement do not explain the marked trend of the decline in numbers. Facts are facts, not propaganda, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u205	... are statistical realities that reflect a competent and continuous work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Since the adoption of the Internal Security Act 2008 and 2020, we must also welcome the reduction in general crime, which has been reduced by 29% over the years, and within this period serious and violent crime decreases by 48, 7%. They are sustainable numbers, which inspire us and encourage us. In 2020 there was 11% decline in general crime and 13%, 4% in violent crime, which makes us - it is evidence, it is a fact, it is not propaganda — the second most secure country in the European Union and one of the safest in the world. This isn't propaganda, it's actually a sustained work over the years... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... of men and women of the well-coordinated security forces who also apply good public policies to prevention, proximity police, local security contracts, the Safe School program, in the Elderly Security or Secure Trade program. That is, there is a consolidated strategy of prevention and deterrence of deviant conduct, that the reduction of juvenile delinquency is a good sign, an encouraging signal itself. There is a significant decrease in the crimes of theft of opportunity, of counterfeiting of money and also of offensive to physical integrity. There are still very positive indicators, which we have to underline and which I have not yet seen, as regards the decrease of 14, 5 % of fires and an improvement in the field of forest fire prevention and control. The year 2020 is even the second best year of the decade, with less than 50 % ignitions and less than 51 % burning area. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's data, it's statistics, it's not propaganda!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u206	What an idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u207	As for the increase in crime, the crimes of computer jokes and communications, which for the third consecutive year have an increase of more than 20 %, and this is not just confinement because it is the third year in which this rise is made. That's why we need to worry, ladies. Members, of course, with the street, with the crime, but also in an increasingly demanding way with the information highways, with computer security, where the multiple cyberbaths, which also in the context of pandemics found fertile ground, as evidenced by the excellent Cybersecurity Report in Portugal, 2021, and therefore is very relevant, and I stress this fact, that there is a reinforcement of the general cybersecurity framework that the Recovery and Resilient Plan also leverages, allocating significant financial investment. They continue to demand an unceasing fight against crimes such as child sexual abuse, lenocinium, child pornography, labour exploitation and trafficking in human beings, which require adequate human, technological and international cooperation, given their transnational nature. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as trafficking in human beings and related crimes is concerned, we know, and we have come to say, that only with regular and safe channels of migration and the indeclinable defence of human rights, of which Portugal and the Socialist Party have made their own matrix, can we effectively combat parasitic crimes involving forced displacement. the draft resolution presented by this parliamentary group in order to protect human rights and foreign policy of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are not neglectful, we make net contributions to the improvement and affirmation of human rights. Finally, I would like to point out that concern about domestic violence persists. In fact, it's a structural crime. Still, it is essential, with all the measures and all the warnings, to continue to strengthen intensive work within 72 hours after the denunciation of the crime, as well as a joint work, which is fundamental, between health, justice and internal administration, so that it does not come too late.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u209	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u210	Finally, Mr Minister and Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we have an implementing programming law, with more than 5,000 authorised promotions, 114 million retroactives paid, a multiannual admission plan that is under way, together with an integrated strategy that prevents demonstrations of discrimination in security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u211	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u212	In conclusion and with your tolerance, Mr President, I would say that the concept of contemporary security is multidimensional, multi-level, comprehensive and both collective and individual. Security aims first and foremost to ensure lasting peace. It is this peace that abides that is our plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u213	You have the floor again, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate on the 2020 Annual Internal Security Report, which was presented promptly and properly at the end of March, but which only now, on a parliamentary agenda, came the debate, allows us a great consensus of recognition that Portugal is a safe country and the pandemic has strengthened that security image. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is in this framework that we should highlight — and I started here in my initial intervention — firstly the recognition for the remarkable work of women and men serving Portugal in the security forces and who have done so in a context in which, without failing to fulfil all their traditional functions, they have fulfilled those which the state of emergency or, now, the disaster situation determines. But they did more: they disinfected hundreds of residential structures for the elderly or hospitals, they were at the borders, when they were closed, they were ensuring compliance with the rules of prophylactic isolation, and they did so appropriately. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The right lives badly with these results, the right is ashamed—and they use this word so often—of the good results of the country and its security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u215	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u216	That is why it is enough to see what social communication brings us when, in several European countries, the pandemic did not translate into a calm of conflict, on the contrary, in those countries it has grown up, but in Portugal it did not. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it is true and I said here that in everything that is online crime, and the computer joke is an obvious case — the dimension of the pandemic situation is associated with the modelling of what are the criminal types. I have to say here that the right was responsible for years in 2011 and 2012 in which violent and serious crime was 24,000 cases per year.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u217	2011 was a socialist year!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u218	Now in 2020 there were 12 000 cases, about 50 %. This is the reality! And it is not only in 2020, it was five years, five reports, corresponding to the period of my term of office and the Urban Constance of Sousa, which are distinguished.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u219	We're different. We're different. ...detain quite!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u220	In fact, since 1989 it has been the best five years in terms of data on criminal records. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This explains a trend: five years and five reports show a tendency with a concern that security forces contribute, for example, to support the elderly in senior centres,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u221	They've been doing this for 20 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u222	... in a proximity dimension which has a proportional and appropriate intervention. We must therefore do even more and better in investment, in which the difference is radical. As Mr.António Filipe well remembered, between 2011 and 2018, there was all the difference: there was no programming law and therefore it was not possible to criticize her because she did not exist. That was the abandonment in which the right left the area of security. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u223	Even with the troika built more!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u224	So we were not the third or fourth safest country in the world, we were back there in the eighth place. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our commitment is to legislative measures, which we hope will still be completed at this session, in order to continue to combat domestic violence, which is a crime with which we cannot deal and we must act more decisively. We need to be more active in investment. currently, there are 80 installations that are in operation, in project, as many, solving problems, from Amarante to Serpa, which have been put to the service of the security forces in recent months. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is necessary to combat the radical phenomena, but extremely right, which are signalled in this report and at European level. It is necessary to have a broad view on the dimension of cybercrime and the new forms of crime that require adequate answers. The right denies the country, denies reality,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u225	And you're not? Oh, my God! Ask the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u226	... denies these five years which are consolidated in the 2020 work.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u227	Mr. Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u228	It is for this commitment, with motivated security forces, that they will have the allowance that they have not given them, that they will have the careers that have been frozen, that they will have the promotions that have not existed, that we will consolidate the image of a security country, a country that trusts their security forces and services. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u229	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finishing the debate on the Annual Internal Security Report — 2020. Now, you have the floor to Mrs. Secretary Sofia Araújo, to account for the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u230	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Bill No 104 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. the Commission. Law No. 897 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 898 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 899 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 900 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 901 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 902 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission, 903 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, and 904 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission. Resolution Nos 1377 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 11. the Commission, 1378 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1379 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1380 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1381 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1382 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 1383 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1384 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1385 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1386 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1387 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1388 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1389 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1390 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1391 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 3. the Commission, 1392 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 1393 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 1394 / XIV / 2. a ( Committee on European Affairs ). To conclude, Mr President, I inform the House that they were present, via videoconferencing, Mr. Paulo Porto, of the PS, and Mr. Deputies Pedro Cegonho, of the PS, and João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, who are both in prophylactic isolation. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-07.u231	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. As the Rules of Procedure require me to read the agenda for tomorrow's sitting, which will take place at 3 p.m. At the first point, we will discuss the priorities of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union for Slovenia. In the second point, we will have a debate on the annual report sent by the Government on Portugal's participation in the European Union building process. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 3 minutes.]]
