ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 14 hours and 34 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, I ask you to open the gallery doors to the public. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed with the reading of the dossier. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u2	Good afternoon to all and to all. They have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. I refer, first, to Law Projects Nos 834 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission in connection with 13. the Commission, 835 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 836 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission in connection with 2. the Commission, 837 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 838 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 839 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 840 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission in connection with 13. the Commission. The Resolution Projects Nos 1267 / XIV / 2 were also included in the Table. a ( PAR), 1268 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 1269 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 12. the Commission, and 1270 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 6. the Commission. Law No 94 / XIV / 2 was also included in the Bureau. a ( GOV ), which falls to 5. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start our agenda. The first point is the submission and assessment of the reports on the implementation of the State of emergency declaration for the periods from 1 to 15 April and from 16 to 30 April. First of all, you have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These are the two reports corresponding to 14. a and 15. the statements of the state of emergency decreed by Mr. President of the Republic. The best reason for the whole of Portuguese society is to look forward to this being the last debate around these issues in the Assembly of the Republic. These reports show that after a terrible period of time Portugal passed, especially during January, the appropriate and demanding measures allowed us to have been transformed in the country which, about 2 months ago, has the lowest incidence of cases and the lowest incidence of deaths throughout the European Union. This result demonstrates the adequacy of the initiative of the President of the Republic, the decisions of the Assembly of the Republic and the difficult and demanding measures taken by the Government. This result is, above all, the merit of all Portuguese, by the way in which they generally exemplaryly carried out these measures. The merit is also of the professionals of the National Health Service ( SNS ), who have responded in these difficult times and who have contributed so that, during April, we had a significant reduction of cases, so that we had, on April 30, a day without deaths and that on April 1 was the only day with more than 10 deaths this month, together with a significant reduction in the number of hospitalizations, of hospitalizations in intensive care and active cases. This result is also worth it — let me say it — of the security forces, which, with determination, with courage and commitment, in a pedagogical or active manner, were present, ensuring compliance with the measures, such as border control measures, even when, for hours, they were attacked with bottles, stones and you know what else is there. This dimension has allowed us to open schools, restaurants, free cultural activities and, in coordination, to resume the opening to the outside, first of the land borders and now, since this week, of the air borders. Therefore, at the moment — having as its main wish, which will be shared by all, that there are no new debates on new emergency periods or on reports of their implementation — I mean that this has not ended and that it is essential that at all events tourists strictly respect the rules which made Portugal an example at European level. It is essential that the extremely positive results we are having in the vaccination process be consolidated. It is with this feeling of duty fulfilled that we must not today loosen the tenacity and resilience and that we must continue until the completion of this terrible battle of our lives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u5	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u6	Mr President, the Minister of Internal Administration, whom I welcome, presents himself in this House as if his measures had solved the problems of the Portuguese. I would remind you, Mr Minister, that one of the reports you are presenting to us today speaks — imagine! — the fast-tracking economy. But what all the newspapers say — I am not saying — is the following: 'Portuguese economy is again suffering one of the greatest falls in the history of democracy'. This is news of 30 April, one of the dates that coincided with the end of this report. Fantasy, propaganda — that is what we have in the state of emergency report, which leads to the luxury of saying that Portugal is again in economic acceleration. However, it is the state of emergency report which, for the first time, acknowledges that the State has failed the Odemira problem, because it says that it failed to monitor the transport of those workers, failed in the preventive measures of the COVID and failed to allow such a serious situation as that which occurred in Odemira to worsen and translate itself, as it translated into nearby health, which the Government had also promised that it would never implement in Portugal, when we discussed this about another matter. This is the moment, Minister, when I should ask you the following: how can you get to this House and say that the measures you have taken have been correct and that the data are proving that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u7	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u8	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. Minister spoke in restaurants. Restaurants, Minister? Oh, my God! 60 percent failed! And you're here to say that the measures worked? Oh, my God! So what would it be like if they didn't work? Imagine the scene of terror that we would have in Portugal! Thank you for your tolerance, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u9	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we discussed the last two reports of a long, hard and complex state of emergency. We expected more, as we said during these months of discussion. We were hoping these reports would look more into reality. Looking at the reality of unemployment, which reached tens of thousands of workers, particularly those who had precarious links, stressing the injustice of this condition. Looking at the reality of the action, or lack of it, of the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ), which calls for strengthening the human and material resources of this structure so that they can do more than training actions and prevent abuses in labour relations. Looking at the reality of the closure of numerous micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which leave thousands of families without income and dismantle a large part of the economy. Let them look at the reality of public transport, which have been missing, and especially those who have stopped for another year and for which there is no commitment to resume. To look at the reality of the difficulties in access to primary health care, with the demands that it places to extend the schedules of health extensions, to strengthen psychologists, to strengthen the teams to the home, to increase the screenings that have to be done. That they look at the reality of mental health, making the survey as rigorous as possible of the impacts of long periods of confinement and isolation, particularly of young and old, pointing out prevention programs, reinforced campaigns of alert, and assuming the need of more psychologists in schools, homes, day centers. That they look at the reality in which the workers of culture are living, that will not resolve, in all their dimensions, with the progressive defination that we are living, being indispensable to ensure that tens of projects are not left on the way. To look at the reality in which thousands of elderly people, isolated in their homes, were prevented from leaving their homes and from receiving family visits, day centres and associations closed because they have no human means to deal with the rules on the number of people in the closed spaces and frequent hygiene of them. The Government's option was to draw up a text with vague references and praise for its own action, even though for that, repeatedly, the texts are literally the same as the report. The government has set itself up in a document with a rigid structure that has not accompanied the pulse of life, the constant and profound changes, or even the dramatic moments experienced by much of the population. Now, that we definitely want to leave behind the states of emergency, exceptional measures, restrictions, limitations on freedoms and confinement, is time to talk about the future. Even if these reports do not provide a basis for the measures that need to be and must be implemented, problems exist. The Government has the means to provide answers, particularly in the State budget for 2021. Now give yourself to that task! [[Congrats from PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u11	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, Member of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Fourteen months after the first case of SARS-CoV-2 infection in our country, we chose to provide a retrospective view of these reports regarding the implementation of the state of emergency. We welcome the presentation of these reports as instruments for monitoring the measures implemented, but we regret that the Government has chosen to use these reports to affirm the positive results rather than to list the difficulties or measures for its resolution. throughout this process, the NAP sought to maintain alongside scientific evidence, not forgetting the necessary balance between global health needs and the difficulties of people in this scenario, seeking to bring balanced positions between health and the economy. We knew that, in the absence of comparable experiences in the past, it was essential for the government to learn quickly and avoid making foreseeable mistakes, errors and inconsistencies that, 14 months later, continue to occur, unjustifying all who did and continue to make deep sacrifices for a greater common good. We understand the difficulty of governing in periods like this, but we do not understand the insistence and maintenance of errors and inconsistencies. I mention some examples: the lack of initial wager in the solution through the tracking of infection chains, i.e. in public health; the arbitraryness of measures in relation to restoration; or the abuses with disproportionate fines that were resolved with much more pedagogy. We still need to know whether the government has learned from this crisis and whether it has realized the importance of strengthening public and environmental health teams or whether it has just covered some holes and will quickly forget the importance of these teams. Unfortunately, we must say that the inconsistency of government measures has greatly undermined the credibility of emergency states. Already outside the states of emergency, but reflecting the inconsistencies of the government, we have the manner in which the government, together with the City Council of Lisbon, did not properly plan the celebrations in Alvalade and disagreed with the suggestions of the PSP, which even presented alternative proposals for action. We would like to make it clear that this position of the Minister reveals a total lack of respect for those on the ground.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u13	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u14	I shall conclude, Mr. President. This fear and lack of responsibility brings us consequences that should not be ignored.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u15	Mr Pedro Morais Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over a year and 15 states of emergency later, we are today discussing what the CDS and the country deeply wish for, that is, these are the latest reports on the state of emergency. We want it for several reasons, of course, and above all, because we sincerely hope that the COVID-19 pandemic will finally be controlled and that the number of infected, hospitalized and dead continue in a descending path. In this regard, I take advantage, on behalf of the CDS, to pay sincere tribute to all those who have been sick, all those who have left and their families. I also take advantage of it for, once again, we deeply thank all those who have been on the front line of this battle so hard and so unequal. If the Government did not know what was required, the health professionals and the Armed Forces were opposite, which were an example from the beginning of the pandemic, from home support missions, assembly of campaign hospitals, the numerous civil protection missions, ending in the honorable work that Vice-Admiral Gouveia and Melo is performing. The health professionals and the military institution were proud of the country—to them our « very, very, very thank you». The CDS cannot fail to make a reference and say 'thank you' to all men and women of firearm corporations, civil protection services and security forces, to employees of social institutions, to thousands of volunteers, from north to south and from the interior to the coast, without ever forgetting the islands, and to the authorships of this country for the extraordinary support they have given and continue to give to those who need us most. Secondly, we hope that this will be the last discussion of these reports, because Portugal can't stand any more states of emergency. The population must be fully vaccinated quickly and the economy must re-emerge. Finally, we hope this will be the last time, because the country is tired of seeing the messed up behind the mess, that these reports have always camouflaged. And, unfortunately, the examples are numerous and cross-sectional to all areas: since the lack of the number of PPE(individual protection equipment), the constant delay in paying social support to families and citizens who have been prevented from working, or who were at home accompanying children who had no classes, passing the ban on movement between councils at weekends and, still, all restrictions on family contacts. Nor can we ignore the support of the elderly, particularly those who were institutionalized. This was one of the biggest failures of this government; there was abandonment of those who needed the most support. The rapid intervention brigades were created, but arrived late and insufficiently. The government still failed when, in the full state of emergency, it was not eager to bring back to its land the Portuguese who were scattered around the four corners of the world and who were held in custody, some of them totally destitute. And it failed again now, when, by pure electoralism, it did not plan and ignored the recommendations of the security forces in the celebrations that we all attended last week, unacceptably calling into question public health, work, effort and resilience of the Portuguese over this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u17	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: In conclusion, if there is any certainty that the Portuguese can — and is of little consequence — be that the Minister is really responsible for all these reports that we have discussed here. It was Mr. Minister who has already shipwrecked in the ocean of public credibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u19	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr João Oliveira of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, recently he said that he hoped this would be the last time we discussed the question of the state of emergency and the health situation that the country has gone through. We share the Government's wish, but we say that it is not enough to wish this to be the last time we have this discussion. It is true that wishing this is the last time is already an advance in relation to a tone, in some way excessively triumphalist, to which we attended last year, in an intervention by the PS bench, saying that we had conquered the virus and that the virus had found a government and a people who were resilient. Therefore, to make hope that in the future this situation does not repeat itself is, let us say, a much more realistic position. But it is not enough just to wish that this does not happen again. It is necessary to create material and objective conditions so that the situation does not, in fact, repeat itself. The lack of control of the health situation, the need to respond to this health situation and the choice by the containment measures are no alternative situations. There is, in fact, an alternative to this, which goes through the strengthening of means, public health teams, screening, contacts and testing to prevent the uncontrollability of the health situation. The alternative is, above all, due to the acceleration of the vaccination process so that, in time, a more solid solution to the health problem and also to create conditions for the option of confinement not to repeat itself. This option cannot be repeated again and there must be an alternative if the health situation gets worse! Let us hope that this does not happen and therefore conditions have to be created for this alternative to respond to the health problem, essentially going through the aspects I have already mentioned: screening, testing and vaccination. These are truly the keys to the answer that must be put on the ground in order to prevent the situation from actually repeating itself. We insist on this issue of vaccines, because it is indeed necessary to take steps to ensure the national production capacity of vaccines and, at the same time, to intervene in order for Portugal to take the right side of history, discussing the suspension of patents in relation to vaccines. Therefore, conditions should be created for them to be produced in sufficient quantity in Portugal as well, ensuring that all Portuguese people can be vaccinated in order to overcome the health and epidemic problem that we have in front of us. I would also like to stress another aspect, which has to do with the economic and social consequences of this difficult period that we have gone through at the beginning of the year and which will last, but the exact extent of which is still unknown today. from the point of view of the most directly affected sectors—such as hotels, restaurants, culture, tourism—and also of the activities associated with these — industrial, trade and services—, they suffered hard with the decisions of confinement, but, in general, they also suffered the economic activities on the basis of which our economy is based.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u21	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u22	Mr. President, I will conclude. It is absolutely essential that the Government ensure economic and social support not only for the resumption of economic activity to take place as wide and as quickly as possible, but also for those who need social support to their full potential, implementing what is in the State budget for 2021. Above all, these are the challenges we want to leave to the government, those we want to keep up with the hopes that the situation does not repeat itself with concrete and objective measures so that it does not actually repeat itself! [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u23	The next intervention is the Left Block. To that end, Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 29 April, the Prime Minister announced, at the end of the day, that two Fregueses from Odemira would have a health fence. The Government took that decision because it concluded that there was a much higher incidence than the rest of the country and a much higher risk of contamination than the rest of the country. Despite this on 29 April and despite this report which we are discussing referring to the dates from 16 to 30 April, this report does not really report what happened in Odemira. What happened in Odemira is extremely serious and this report should look more closely at this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u26	In fact, this report is cleverly misleading about the situation. Near page 50, he refers to the decree that imposed the state of calamity and there he will admit that there were no living conditions in the lodgings of agricultural workers to make compulsory confinement, prophylactic isolation, etc. But stay there. On the causes, on what the government has been doing to prevent these outbreaks, on the intervention of the so-called'social and economic determinants' there is nothing. The truth is that the government knew of the situation of extreme exploitation of these migrant workers, it knew of the extreme precarious housing and also the work to which these people were subjected, it knew of the existence of trafficking networks that subjected human beings to this everyday indignity. I knew everything for a very simple reason: because the whole country knew, because the situation was public. over the past few years there have been no lack of reports to denounce the matter; over the last few years the Left Block has brought this matter to the Assembly of the Republic many times. So the government knew about everything that was going on. But the government also knew that controlling the pandemic, avoiding new outbreaks, preventing new contamination chains also meant acting in these social and economic determinants of the disease. He knew why, for example, at Infarmed meetings, it was said that it was necessary to intervene in housing conditions, working conditions, combating work precariousness, etc. He knew why the Left Block itself, a year ago, in March 2020, questioned him, particularly the Ministry of Health, on this particular subject. After more than one year, he did not have a single answer to that question addressed in writing. It is unbelievable that more than a year has passed since the beginning of the pandemic, in that same place, the same housing precariousness continues to exist and there are still situations in which 20 people living in the same house. It's unbelievable that everything goes on in the same way! Finally, the seriousness of the situation requires that the government, instead of having a « touch and flee» approach to the matter, rather than trying to ignore it in the report, explain what it has been doing to prevent these outbreaks. What did the health authorities do to prevent these outbreaks?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u27	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u28	What did the ACT do to prevent these outbreaks? It is not only about the action after it has happened, but about the action to prevent it from happening. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u29	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Lima Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u30	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all want this to be the last time we talk about the implementation reports of the state of emergency declaration. Since these are the latest reports, it is a good time for the European Parliament to take stock of the results of the fight against the pandemic, during the emergency states, which the Government gives to the Portuguese. Portugal recorded, this year, for weeks, the world record of infected and killed with COVID-19. Portugal, of the 30 countries accompanied by ECDC ( European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control ), is in the group of the 10 worst in infections and deaths with COVID-19, per million inhabitants since the beginning of the pandemic. Portugal, according to EUROFOUND ( European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions ), is the penultimate of the European Union in access to non-COVID-19 health care. It is inhumane the level of delays in consultations, examinations, screenings, surgeries! Portugal, says the ECB ( European Central Bank ), despite the white letter given by Parliament, is the foreclosure of the euro area in the support of governments to combat the effects of the pandemic. Portugal, in the European Union, says Eurostat today, has the biggest fall in GDP (gross domestic product) in the first quarter, and the European Commission says this year will have the fourth worst rate of economic growth and the second worst rate in 2022. And in this situation, in the face of an incentive plan of EUR 750 billion for the recovery of the European economy, what does the government do? Of all the 14 Member States that have already submitted their recovery plans, Portugal is least supportive of the recovery of the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u31	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u32	It is the worst in support of the recovery of the economy, choosing to apply the bulk of the part in the structure of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u33	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u34	These are objective data resulting from a pattern of government behavior: do not prevent, do not anticipate, react late and badly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u35	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u36	A standard that is the face of Mr. Minister of Internal Administration — a minister who knew the explosive situation of Odemira and did not prevent, did not anticipate, reacted late and badly; a minister who knew the risks to the public health of Sporting parties and who did not prevent, did not anticipate or even react. Fortunately, in a vital way, there is indeed a positive result: in vaccination, we are in the middle of the table at European level. That's a good result! But it is also a good result because, at a decisive and critical moment, good sense has prevailed. Vaccination only began to run well when its maximum responsible, before the initial disqualification, had the good sense of resigning. Mr Minister, look at this example of common sense! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u37	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u38	Mr President, Mr Minister of Internal Administration, Mrs Minister of Health, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs Members: The exit of the state of emergency and the ongoing defination, a sign of withdrawal of the indicators that assess the state and control of the epidemiological situation in Portugal, constitute the turning point that we have long wanted. This would not have been possible without the essential workers, of which I highlight the health professionals, the security forces, our firefighters, without careful management and appropriate measures of national and local political decision-makers and without the individual accession and contribution of all Portuguese, and always with the parliamentary scrutiny of this House. Throughout this period of collective adversity, the social state, which socialist governance has been robust, was decisive and did not fail, because the social state was strengthened long before the beginning of the pandemic, contrary to what happened to the right, which left the social state devastated in social security, in public school and in the SNS. We did not fail in the SNS, because public investment has been continued both in material resources, or in the strengthening of professionals, currently preparing the hiring of 2,474 health professionals, including 1,366 nurses to strengthen the SNS frameworks. There have been 9 830 nurses in SNS since 2016. Also, since 2021, the community teams of psychiatry and mental health of childhood and adolescence now have 30 more professionals. The reinforcement of the SNS, as I said, began back there in the previous legislature, with more than 15,500 professionals who strengthened this Central Service in our lives, this Service that saved lives daily. We have not failed in social security and labor support. Contrary to what has been said, there have been many social support, economic support and company support. The simplified layoff has reached more than 1 million workers and the government has already spent EUR 3, EUR 4 billion on paid social support and has already supported nearly 3 million citizens and more than 180 000 companies. It did not fail in public school, which has always ensured meals for students who lack them, welcomed the children of essential workers, strengthened human resources—operational assistants and school psychologists—, supported vulnerable students and we reached the lowest levels of school dropout in our history in this period, exceeding the European target, which was 10 %, remaining at 8.9%. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know exactly what the choices on the right would be today. They would not be very different from those they did in the past: less public school, less solidarity and social protection, less SNS, that is, a minimum state and a poor public school, a poor SNS and minimal social security. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the evolution of the pandemic in Portugal continues on a downward course, with incidence levels suggesting a Community transmission of moderate intensity and reduced pressure in health services — less daily cases, less hospitalizations, less patients requiring intensive care. In reverse, the numbers of our satisfaction have been rising: up the recovered ones — 803 000; vaccination — 4, 4 million vaccines administered, having in the past weekend struck a record of nearly 200,000 inoculations to teachers, school employees and other workers of social responses.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u39	Mrs. Susana Amador, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u40	Mr President, in testing too, there were 11 million tests and half a million tests at COVID-19 in schools. Finally, I would like to say, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who need to strengthen the living conditions of weaker groups — that is what we are doing with programme 1. the law — and with a set of housing reforms.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u42	We need to continue the turn in international cooperation and we will regain our economy with the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ). We shall continue to renew the sense of words such as community, cooperation and solidarity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u43	To close this debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Several reports on the state of emergency have already been discussed. There are still those who have not fully understood the basis of the legal framework for the restriction of rights, freedoms and guarantees that underpin what we bring here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u45	Nice way to get started!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u46	It was possible, in the period of one month, that we discussed today, to record an average of 506 cases of COVID-19 per day, in the first fortnight, and an average of 469 cases of COVID-19 per day, in the second fortnight. There has been a declining trend in new cases of infection. The actual risk of transmission was 0, 95. The new cases reported at 14 days were 68, 5 / 100,000 inhabitants, in the first fortnight, and 62, 1 / 100,000 inhabitants, in the second fortnight. There was a significant decrease in the number of hospitalization cases and excess mortality was not identified. Despite everything, the tests increased. Despite everything, vaccination has increased. Nevertheless, the Portuguese continued to resist and continued to comply. And that is why, in that period, thanks to the combination of individual effort and collective effort, it was possible to recover to advance to the second phase of defination and then to the third phase of defination. A lot of things went less well than we would like in these stages. One example was the epidemiological situation of the municipalities of Moura, Odemira, Portimão and Rio Major and some others who had rivets, retrocesses, slower rhythms. Therefore, it is not correct to say that the reports of the state of emergency that present themselves make the table of everything that went less well. We are here, we recognize that, we have been with people and we will continue to be with them, because the failures and successes are not ours, they are all of them. They are all those we work here and they are certainly also all those who work in this House of the Republic. We therefore hope that this will be the last time we have come here to discuss this subject, but therefore we also warn that this will be the last time. It is indeed necessary to continue to create real and objective conditions for public services to be prepared to respond. How do you do that? It is done with the approval of State budgets like the one we approved a few months ago in this House. It is recognized that the storm has not completely disappeared and that it is up to each of us to continue to work. at the level of health services, health professionals have done it every day and that is why, with satisfaction, we can say that not only the numbers of COVID-19 are lower, but also the numbers of care activity are being recovered. April will have been one of the most productive months in the National Health Service, having obtained 2, 5 million consultations more in primary health care, more than 400 000 consultations more in the hospital area and more than 32 000 surgeries also in the hospital area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u47	Mrs. Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u48	So this is the proof of what we have achieved and of what we will continue to work to achieve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u49	With this government intervention, we have concluded this first item on our agenda. The second point of our agenda is the joint assessment, in general, of the Bill No 83 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Electronic Communications Act and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1972, establishing the European Electronic Communications Code, and draft Law No 818 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — Amends Article 27 ( 1 ). the, adding points 3 and 4 of Article 53. that of the Law of Electronic Communications. To present the bill, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Communications, Hugo Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government today brings to this House the bill that transposes the European Code of Electronic Communications into the national legal system. The European Electronic Communications Code represents more than an exercise in harmonising the rules applicable to Member States and deepening the internal market. It represents, above all, the definition of a framework that seeks to better protect consumers, stimulate investment and strengthen competition, making connectivity the basis of the digital transformation of society. The Government's option to transpose this directive was not to create a new law, but to make the European Code an updated version of the existing Electronic Communications Act, which has been the backbone of this sector's legislation since 2004. The new Electronic Communications Act brings, in view of the present, important advances in several central areas. Without ambitiously summarizing all the relevant changes in a diploma of this size, I would stress: firstly, a set of new rules that strengthen users' rights, with emphasis on the requirements for comparability of offers and contractual information, as well as greater protection in the context of package offers; secondly, the universal service comes to include a broadband Internet access service and voice communication services at affordable prices; thirdly, in spectrum management, this proposal strengthens coordination at the European Union level, giving priority to the implementation of 5G technology; and finally, it makes important advances in promoting investment in highly high capacity networks. I would like, in this initial intervention, to leave a word on the choices that guided the process of transposition of this directive. It was the government's initial intention to transpose it through a process involving all relevant entities in the sector. To this end, it requested the regulator to draw up a draft transposition, which submitted to a working group set up for this purpose, including representatives of operators, consumers, regulators themselves and the government, in order to obtain a proposal for a diploma. However, with the advent of the pandemic and the drag of work over the year 2020, and so as not to delay sending the bill to this House, the Government has taken the option of integrating only the contributions submitted by the participants who did not depart from the European Code. In other words, it decided to move forward with a more faithful transposition of the Code, including in the bill only what was mandatory to transpose. We understand that this decision may have broken the expectations of the different entities that composed the working group for not having seen their mirrored contributions to the bill. However, it was the Government's option, even advertised at the end of last year, that the essential of this work done by the regulator and by the representatives of operators and consumers could now be presented and discussed, not in a closed group, but in a public debate, in Parliament. the detailed and lively work carried out with these entities, resulting from a directive also very complex and long, resulted that, in some of its most relevant themes, the Electronic Communications Law may not form broad consensus between regulators, operators and consumers. There is, in this lack of consensus, no perplexity: dissent is the normal state in a plural and democratic society. Plural, because different actors have different views and interests, and, democratically, because we have at our disposal the mechanisms that enable us to transform the dissent into a legitimate compromise through debate. It is this commitment that the Government calls on the parties of this House to find in the course of the next few weeks, following a broad public debate with the central participants in the electronic communications sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u51	You have the floor to present your initiative, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The proposal that we are being presented seeks to transpose into the Portuguese legal order a mechanism that we have long been waiting for. It comes late and is inadequate to what is intended. If you seek to ensure universal access to Internet bridges and communications, in particular voice bridges, do so in disregard of the market itself and without even being able to define what will be an affordable price for what we will have to agree at Community level. It has advantages, such as access to people with disabilities and achieving, within a global rule, a law, which should be done long ago, to promote universal access. However, there are shortcomings which must not fail to be pointed out, such as the lack of harmonisation within the countries of the European Union itself. Additional resources are available from the user's point of view, but there is still full unfavourable access, and what we want is that Portugal is in the best of these access practices in terms of the European Union. What is also said is that these additional resources must be exempt from any fees, as other European Union States have also proposed in the past half-year. It was something we should look at, because this law was very much below what the working group wanted to do and was very much below what the participants themselves wanted in their contributions. I finish this presentation, saying the following: Imagine the emergency calls. They still have a different rule in several countries of the European Union, but Portugal can do worse, it can have different resources, different rules and award procedures in terms of electronic communications, also different ones. This is a legal confusion which could and should have been corrected by this law. What our proposal wants to do is harmonise what should be harmonised and allow resources within the European Union to be equally harmoniously used.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u53	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Filipe Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u54	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The Government is presenting to this Parliament an absolutely structural document, not only for the telecommunications sector, but above all for the future and for the present country. This bill approves the Electronic Communications Act and amends and transposes a set of other Community laws and directives, including that of the new European Electronic Communications Code. The discussion comes with a draft law of the Arrival, but on this proposal there is little to say, because on a subject with so much matter to be dealt with, the proposal is a total void. If you disagree, as I said, then hand it over to the proposal. But I admit that you are still trying to understand what your advisors have written to you, because you say absolutely nothing! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, focusing on the important debate, there is, of course, a first conditionant in the discussion of this document. There is no way to transpose a European directive without presupposing or accepting a set of common rules, which are those defined by the representatives of the Member States — and with equal democratic legitimacy — and without agreeing with various objectives such as the objective of building a single digital market. It is true that we can transpose directives in various ways and that is why, beyond the common trunk of mandatory transposition, we believe that there is now a wide possibility of initiative and even a margin of consensus between the various parties in this House and that the document that the Government is presenting today is a good document and a good starting point. Despite taking, as the Secretary of State has said, a minimalist transposition of the directive, this proposal does not fail to add a set of guarantees and definitions that improve, and much, this law, without prejudice to the discussion we will certainly do in this House. The Socialist Party highlights three major objectives, among many others. Firstly, to accelerate the digital transformation of society by creating rules and encouraging the massification of high-capacity networks, such as 5G networks, creating not only conditions for private investment, but above all also creating conditions for public investment, in which the State can assume the implementation of new generation networks in places where operators currently do not arrive. Yes, the guarantee of territorial cohesion must be a key factor in the new electronic communications law. Secondly, there is a major objective, which is to defend and protect consumers, strengthening their rights in electronic communications or in digital space.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u56	Consumers need to have more information and transparency so they can have more choice. And they have to have better quality services, paying only for what they need. Finally, the third major objective, this law updates the concept and the scope of what is the universal communications service, imposing broadband internet access and taking care of the most vulnerable users. It is here, for example, that a proposal which the Socialist Party has already brought to this House a few months ago, the social rate of the Internet, which is to be created shortly. Yes, we believe that we have increasingly to evolve into a country where access to the Internet and the competences to do so are universal rights. In conclusion, Mr President, we believe that this is a good proposal and that, even using the words of the Secretary of State, it will be possible to reach a compromise based on the broad public debate, which, of course, deserves the comfort of the main actors in the sector and which has the contribution of all, but even of all, the political parties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u57	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecologist Party (“The Greens”) spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal from the Government transposes into our legal order the European directive establishing the European Code of Electronic Communications and, at the same time, introduces several amendments in a number of other diplomas, partly by giving the body, as the Greens have defended, to the need to consider the broadband Internet access service a universal service, in which specific quality is ensured and at an affordable price. The weaknesses of Internet access were clearly seen during the pandemic, in which many students were unable to attend classes, or had enormous difficulties in doing, due to lack of broadband mobile/fibre coverage. However, in terms of costs, the bill refers us to the social tariff in cases where citizens have less resources, when what should be done is to establish a basic tariff accessible to all, regardless of economic resources. Furthermore, the proposal retains the maximum loyalty period of 24 months and does not require companies to make available to all users the ability to enter into contracts without any type of loyalty or six and twelve months of loyalty period for each benefit granted to the user. The Greens have argued that if there is loyalty, it should be no more than six months in order not to harm consumers themselves and at the same time compensate operators for the costs of installation. On the other hand, the electronic communications sector is one of the major conflicts between consumers and service providers. Consumers submit recurrent complaints — increasingly limited, it is true — for the costs with customer support, not only with regard to quality failures in the service provided, but also with regard to the abuse of contractual matters by operators. The loyalty period is exactly one of the main outbreaks of conflict in the electronic communications sector, and what we believe is that operators should "liquidise" their customers for the good services they provide and for the appropriate tariffs they present and not for a possibility of legally and unconditionally withholding them for two years. For example, in the event of a complaint of the contract during the loyalty period, the proposal contained in the preliminary draft of ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ), although not perfect, was accessible to consumers, providing that the costs in the event of termination were 10 % on the amount of the monthly amounts awarded or 20 % on the first half of the initial loyalty. However, in drafting this bill, «the charges for early termination of the contract with a period of loyalty, on the initiative of the consumer, must be proportionate to the advantage conferred on it and as such identified and quantified in the contract concluded », a situation which naturally only favours operators. The fact is that citizens have been clearly affected by Leonine contracts in which they have no negotiating power, subjecting themselves to the rules of operators, a problem that this proposal does not solve at all. [[Congrats from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u59	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Communications: The bill currently under consideration was expected about five months ago, as we know. Moreover, the Government itself has already admitted that it did not just intend to do so, let us say, a simple transposition of the directive establishing the European Code of Electronic Communications, but that it wanted to go further and look more deeply at the various issues and problems of telecommunications in Portugal. In addition, there have been several alerts on these issues that have been given over the years: tariffs above the European average, conditions of loyalty and relidelisation harmful to consumers, lack of diversity in the type of packages and services available, difficulties in broadband coverage in all regions of the country. But, in this context, the opinions which have so far reached the Assembly of the Republic have raised very relevant issues that have to do with just a few of these matters which I have just mentioned. Moreover, in the vast majority, they are also present in the preliminary draft which ANACOM drafted last year, for example on loyalty and the fact that the Government does not go as far as necessary, from our point of view, to guarantee rights to consumers, as it was not so far, for example, to impose a limit on compensation for early denunciation of contract, something, indeed, that has been proposed by ANACOM, DECO and the Competition Authority itself. On the other hand, the proposal also refers to some concerns about the use of personal data, potentially giving in to mercantilization logics, as it has been, indeed, alerted by the National Data Protection Commission in its opinion to this proposal, which we would also like to see clarified, because the reservations mentioned are, in fact, worrying. We also miss the absence of some rules which were present in the preliminary draft of ANACOM and which, in fact, in this proposal by the Government end up benefiting only operators. This is the case with the changes in the lives of each one of us, in the lives of people, which can lead to the termination of a contract: cases of unemployment, emigration, hospitalization, loss of income, finally a number of situations that may occur and which people should not have to pay in order to put an end to telecommunications contracts. The list has also been made by the various entities heard. These situations are frequent and the power has always been on the side of the operators, so it would be necessary to reverse this relationship a little. Therefore, making a more general analysis of the Government's proposal for law, it seems to us that it is necessary to strengthen the rights of the weakest, i.e. of consumers; to ensure that the complaint of the contract for these reasons does not have any cost for the same consumers; to simplify the terms of change of residence; to eliminate disproportionate contractual conditions, which still exist; to extend the time limits for notification of contractual amendments; to set deadlines for reply to complaints. All of this is measures we welcome that may be under discussion in this proposal. It seems to us that some of these measures need to be further in the process of expertise and that others do not go as far as they could. In fact, according to the preliminary draft and the opinions already made, they could go further, and the Government's proposal does not do so, but the debate in the specialty could serve exactly for that. Finally, with regard to universal service, affordable prices and social tariff, not being all these matters directly involved in the law, are issues that are closely interconnected. We are also very concerned about this and it will be necessary to understand how it will happen in particular with regard to compensation to operators, which we are concerned about the lack of clarification of this mechanism by the Government so far. The Left Block will therefore monitor very carefully the work in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u61	Would you like to conclude, Member of Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u62	I shall conclude, Mr President. In particular, we will present proposals for amendments which may meet the strengthening of consumer law, taking into account the contributions already made and the hearings to be made to the bodies within the committee. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u63	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa, from the PS, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The digital transition is a design of the Socialist Party and this government. This Code discussed today aims to stimulate investment, protect consumers, particularly the most vulnerable, and to bet on the quality of service and innovation that have marked the sector. Regulation and competition in this sector are fundamental. I remember here that the pandemic has expanded the inequalities already existing in the digital domain and accelerated the transformation. Measures such as the social tariff of the Internet aim to combat these asymmetries and inequalities and territorial cohesion is also a priority in this matter for the Socialist Party. I would like to highlight two questions of the many issues already raised in this debate, which were mentioned by the Secretary of State: the extension of universal service to the Internet and the promotion of 5G technology. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, responding to the challenge of the Government and the other parties, will propose a broad debate on this proposal, so that it is more than simply a transposition of the directive. thus, the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group will propose the establishment of a working group in 6. the Commission to promote the debate and the necessary consensus. You can count on us for this dialogue. We expect everyone to have a robust and transparent electronic communications law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u65	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : Always arriving late and at no later time seems to be the rule of government. After failing to transpose into domestic law the directive of the European Code of Electronic Communications, the Government was also able to fail to respond to the proceedings brought against Portugal by the European Commission because of the failure of that first period. This is truly unusual, Mr. Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u67	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u68	The European Electronic Communications Code was approved in 2018, but the Government left to 25. the time for submission of the proposed transposition of this directive, so, in the light of European rules, Portugal is in an irregular situation and will have to continue in this situation for at least a while longer. Mr Under-Secretary of State and Communications, the pandemic can justify a lot of things, but it does not justify everything, and the circumstances of other Member States have not yet transposed this Community directive does not serve as a justification, when much could serve as a mitigating to the Government. [[PSD applause.]] The government left for 25. the time for submission of this proposal for transposition and called on Parliament. Mr Secretary of State, we understand the urgency, we bear in mind that the European Code of Electronic Communications is an extremely relevant legal instrument for the future of the communications sector, both in Portugal and in the rest of the Community. We are well aware of the importance that this diploma can assume in the defence of the consumer who, as we know, is increasingly dependent on data traffic and Internet access services, and we have not ignored the steps taken in this diploma. We also bear in mind the importance that this diploma has for the health, safety, education and economic sectors, where the most impact has the requirements of effective management of the capacity of fixed and mobile communication networks. Mr Secretary of State, we bear in mind all of this, but, as you should agree, with us and with this House, this is not a debate that can be held in a hurry, it is not a discussion that can be held at the « four ravines» and « the horse-slaughter». They do not contain us for a debate of this nature and with that appreciation. That is not what is expected or what is required of Parliament, and, as has already been mentioned by the various benches, there are too many matters that require a very careful and well-considered analysis. Mr Secretary of State: if it is true that the Government has not gone through an intrinsically minimalist transposition of this directive, and specifically the European Code of Electronic Communications, it is also true that many of the measures to protect users' rights, including end users with disabilities advocated in the preliminary draft of ANACOM, have simply been along the way. This is in clear disagreement with the spirit of the European legislator and with the real needs of national communications users. Yes, sir. Members, we will probably dare to go further in the field of counterparties, either in the loyalty of contracts, in the conditioning of additional loyalty periods, in the free access, even if limited, to support lines, in the most detailed information on monthly invoices, in the clear discrimination of all prices practised, in the precise identification of all costs associated with early termination of contracts and the unlocking of equipment or the prohibition, by default, of the collection of goods or services from third parties when they are not expressly authorised by the consumer. And we could continue to exemplify with situations they also deserve particular attention in the field of comparability of offers, availability and performance of the service, duration and denunciation of contracts, changes in contractual circumstances, portability of numbers, etc. etc. etc. As you can achieve, Mr. Secretary of State, there is a lot of ground to unravel. There is a lot of ground to unravel, I repeat, there is a long way to go and we are willing to do so. Have the PSD not to miss this opportunity to create a good electronic communications law for Portugal and the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u69	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : The political objective of the European Code of Electronic Communications and, more importantly, of this proposal from the Government is to take the large and liberalised European telecommunications market further. This bill is part of this path and strategy. The damage caused by privatization and liberalisation to the public, to the national interests, to the public interest is well visible. Benefits, even for multinationals in the sector, which promote and benefit from monopolistic concentration at European level. This is a process that needs to reverse and not deepen. The CFP believes that it is essential to break down with the model implemented in the telecommunications sector, composed of private operators, tendingly foreign, exploiting a public good, the electromagnetic spectrum, with a public regulator without political accountability, a state hostage of private operators and users with a expensive and non-universal access service, with large regions of the national territory excluded from a minimum of quality. This is not the law that the country needs and nothing will make it a good law. We need to break with the way in progress. what the country needs, and the PCP defends it, is a universal service in a logic of progressive "dismerchantization" rather than a mechanism to overcome market failures. what the country needs, and the PCP defends it, is the reconstruction of a public operator that operates and develops the telecommunications infrastructure and not a discussion marked by the contradictions between economic groups and the correlation of forces between incumbents and entrants. We will have to make this debate more concrete and in-depth on the crucial issue of universal service, its definition, the guarantees for users and populations, the rejection of pretexts to benefit more fully the oligopoly of this sector, the measures aimed at improving, and not harming, the rights of consumers. Several of these matters have been mentioned in the past, but there is, of course, a question which cannot be put aside in this debate and which has to do with constitutionally enshrined rights, freedoms and guarantees. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I would like to draw your attention to the phrase that I am going to quote: « By assuming a legal standard that the remuneration of a service, in the case of electronic communications, may correspond to the provision of personal data, the possibility of monetization or marketing of personal data is being recognised, which, in the Portuguese legal order and in the articulation of the legislative acts of the European Union has never been recognised. Do not keep on seeking. ” Who said it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Government members, was the National Data Protection Commission,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u71	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u72	... which refers to a materialistic view of personal data and refers to Article 35. the Constitution, which contains these legislative options. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, it will not be surprising that the PSD or the CDS claim delay in adopting measures such as this or, in general, these legislative options, but that is also what we talk about when we accuse the PS Government of insisting not to break up with the right-wing policy or even to take further on fundamental issues such as this one, that of the telecommunications sector. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u73	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u74	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: I would like to begin precisely with the question of transposition of the directive and, with respect to Mr Bruno Dias, to say that transposing directives is not yet a right-wing policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u75	No, no! That's what they bring in!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u76	Transposing directives is an obligation of the Portuguese State from the moment it participates in the European Union and therefore we can circumvent, thinking that transposing a directive is a policy of left or right, depending on what it has, but is not. It is an obligation of the Portuguese State and,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u77	The problem is what's written there!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u78	...as such, it is important that we comply with it. Or if, for some reason, we cannot comply, it is important that at least we answer in time. As Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has well said, there is a State that does not comply with the transposition and that, after that, it cannot even meet the deadline to challenge the fact that it has not been transposed very much — and I must say - in relation to the effort that there are at least two governments, to achieve an early compliance with the transpositions of directives. And it is not just the matter of complying with European rules. It is that the directives, as is the case with this directive, have very important consequences for those who, on the ground, suffer or benefit from their application. Therefore, the sooner they are transposed, the better for each of the market players competing in open markets with operators from other countries and who, of course, need to ensure that the regulatory framework is not a competitive loss factor for our companies. Having said that, the European Code of Electronic Communications transposed into this bill obviously has objectives that we subscribe to and that we find important. In the specific case of Portugal, and citing only three important issues, it is relevant for the implementation of the 5G, it makes a legal framework that allows the implementation of the social tariff and allows, for example, the mechanism for identifying the white areas so that, through public investment, an effort which is also European, one can fulfill what is obviously the public service of a network coverage that goes beyond the commercial work of each operator and which fully respects the public interest of an extended coverage. There are other issues where transposition by this bill goes beyond what was in the European Code of Electronic Communications and that is where the problems begin. For example, the question of the personal responsibility of operators' managers is something that arises here and has absolutely no connection with the European Code. It is a discussion that can be done, whether what is here is constitutional and whether the principle of proportionality is respected, but this has nothing to do with the European Code of Electronic Communications. Another issue that is here and which is important is the use by public services of services made available by operators. I am sorry, but this cannot be an open bar system in which any public service, under any circumstances, uses the services of a telecommunications operator and does not pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u79	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u80	I will finish, Mr. President. There are essential rules on the market so that, from the consumer's point of view, we can follow a good relationship with operators and a justice towards consumers, but so that we can also respect the investment effort, which in Portugal is greater than the European average and is even greater than many countries which, from the economic point of view, have a higher prevalence than our own. Mr President, I have benefited from your humor and your tolerance, thank you very much. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Mr André Ventura has the floor for a short speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u82	Mr President, it is only to answer Mr Filipe Pacheco. Mr President, I have nothing here that my advisors have told me, but since you want to go to the debate, then use the time of the Secretary of State to answer why in articles 18. it's 19. if requested an opinion from the National Cyber Security Centre. On what basis? Ask your Secretary of State to respond because there is a reference to wiring in Article 143. when this has been resolved since 2009. You don't know why your advisors haven't called yet, but they're gonna call you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u83	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u84	By the way, ask why in Article 123. it speaks of competent authorities not identified in a counter-ordering process, grossly violating the principle of legality. I do not have the answer here, Mr, but if you call your advisors or your Secretary of State, you may be able to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u85	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u86	This one stays for now; for the next there will be more.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u87	To speak, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk in the CFP about right-wing policy, we are not just talking about formal issues, we are essentially talking about issues of content, political options and interests that stand up and benefit from these options. The CDS is concerned about the personal responsibility of the administrators of telecommunications operators, and we are concerned about the marketing and use of consumer personal data. While the CDS speaks, with concern, about whether private operators will not be abused and about the demands of public services — concern, indeed, shared by the PSD and, I would also, by the Government — we talk about the need to ensure the quality of service to populations and users, and not that idea, which actually consists of the proposed law, in that the performance of the network may be considered similar regardless of the experience of end-users to be variable according to the intrinsically different characteristics.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u89	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u90	In conclusion, Mr President, this political option, in what is underlying decisions and choices, even legal standards, is what is underlying the criticism and warning of the CFP, are neither the final issues nor the procedural issues. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u91	To close the debate, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Communications, Hugo Santos Mendes, who will bring together the time for intervention that the Government still had at the time of closure which would also be appropriate as a proposer of this initiative. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the questions that have been raised during this debate. Objectively, I will not have time to respond to all nor would that be the ambition. To use an expression which the Member of the Socialist Group of the Filipe Pacheco Socialist Party has used, this is just a starting point for a longer debate. This is a very long, complex directive, the diploma has almost 300 pages and this debate should serve as a ‘step-off’ for the next few weeks, regardless of how long it takes. I understand that Portugal is already in breach and I have responded to the European Commission. The European Commission has not yet responded to Portugal and, if this is an indicator of gravity, I remember that when we were notified by the European Commission four of the 27 countries had transposed the European Code of Electronic Communications. This is no excuse, it serves as a framework and contextualization for what has happened over the past two years, after the Code has been published, and certainly the pandemic context has not affected only Portugal. But that, now, is not the important thing and it would be strange for the government to be pressing to, "the three sides" — to use the PSD's expression — we will produce a closed diploma. The Government's objective is not that. We are fully aware that the working group that worked for several months did not produce the result we wanted, by our decision and not by failure to comply with the working group. There were various vicissitudes which led to that the final result was not the one that was intended at the beginning of the formation of the working group. However, our concern, since we made the decision that we would make the most faithful transposition of the directive, was that this work should not be lost and that all the participants — the regulator, consumers, who were also represented, and the operators — whose contributions resulted from an effort over several months, could intervene themselves now in a public debate and not in a closed working group. Although the closed working groups have their virtues and are not necessarily negative, it seems to me that, in a bill of law of this magnitude and of this importance, the debate would gain in public. It will probably delay a little longer, but that is not really our concern. Our effective concern is to get out of here a good law and this law will be as much better as the wider consensus that we are able to produce. We know that this is difficult because there are areas where it is objectively demanding to find a common platform for operators and consumers, for example, or even between the regulator and the government. The institutions think in different ways, there is no problem at all, we must publicly debate the positions and reach a position that is acceptable and legitimate. I would like to remind you that there are issues on which the government is taking the initiative. For example, in the question of universal service, the government, as is public, has been working for several months on a proposal for a social tariff on the Internet, and at the beginning of the second half — and we will be able to achieve the timetable — the tariff should be on the market and allow beneficiaries with lower incomes to have access to the Internet at a very, very affordable price. Therefore, the Government is fulfilling a very important chapter of the code through this measure. Without prejudice to the debate that has also taken place here, there is another dimension, which I believe is that almost all parliamentary groups — and at least on the left, with particular emphasis — have to do with the issue of the resolution of contracts. The Government is working on a proposal not only for electronic communications but also for other areas, such as energy, gymnasiums, long-term service contracts and, in this context, electronic communications will also be covered. Therefore, there are a set of rules which Members have known, namely the preliminary draft of ANACOM, I believe that in August last year, and they also now know the position of the regulator and other participants, whose contributions have been sent to the Assembly in recent days, so they can make these comparisons. It seems to me that there will also be no consensus between everyone in the part of the settlement of the contract — common, in the rules of loyalty and compensation to the operators, there will not be an easy consensus. But the Government will take the initiative, without prejudice to this House also be able to move forward, have a debate and take a position at the end. The Government is pleased with the acceptance of the challenge, made by the overwhelming majority of the parties, but only by the whole, to start a working group where all the entities that participated in the initial working group can be heard, and possibly also the Government, who is also a participant in this process, so that we can work in good electronic communications over the next few weeks. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u93	Good afternoon, everyone. We have thus reached the end of the joint discussion, in general, of the Bill No 83 / XIV / 2. a and draft Law No 818 / XIV / 2. a ( CH). We will start the joint debate, in general, of Law Proposals Nos 84 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the new Organic Law of the Bases of the Organization of Armed Forces and 85 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the National Defence Act and the Bills No. 792 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Change the National Defence Act ( Second Amendment to Organic Law No 1 - B / 2009 of 7 July ) and 793 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Alter the Organic Law of Bases of Organization of Armed Forces ( Second Amendment to Organic Law No 1 -A / 2009 of 7 July ). To open the debate and present the Government's initiatives, Mr. Minister of National Defence, João Gomes Cravinho, who I take advantage of to greet and greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is with great pleasure that I here, in the Assembly of the Republic, present two proposals for government law, which, because they are directly associated, will be presented together. In view of the fulfilment of an element of the Government Programme, I begin by recalling precisely that the Programme speaks of the need to, and I quote, « definitely reorganize the Armed Forces, depending on the operational product, and it is essential that a joint capacity-based force structure be given priority and more based on a modular and flexible organisation model, with more than likely need for an effective joint command architecture ». This commitment has a great consistency and continuity with government programs over a quarter of a century ago. After the end of the Cold War some 30 years ago, there was obviously an adaptation of military structures to completely new challenges. The strategic reflection in Portugal was not indifferent to the important changes in the international scenario. Therefore, the governments that took possession of it in 1995 and 1999 spoke clearly of the need to strengthen the value of national defence and to restructure the Armed Forces in order to improve operational efficiency, in particular with the strengthening of operations, capacities and joint command. However, for the economic reasons of the politics of the time, it was not possible to carry out the reforms which, at that time, felt as necessary. The two governments that took possession in 2002 and 2004 have a similar formulation of the Government Programme, of course in the same sense. Similarly, the government that began its duties in 2005 also had a very clear ambition, as can be seen by reading the Government's programme of the time, and I quote: « Reform of the model for the organisation of the Defence and Armed Forces, in order to restructure the device and optimize the conditions of command and operational control in the missions of the Armed Forces, in particular with a view to the joint use of forces and their interoperability, which should lead to the creation by stages of a Greater Defence State. In spite of the ambition expressed in this Government Programme and in previous government programmes, the 2009 amendments, which in some respects were quite significant, ended up falling short of what was desired. The following government realized this and in 2014 it moved forward to try to complete the proposed reform. It was possible in 2014 to improve in several respects the organization of the National Defence and the Armed Forces, but the political situation of the time—and possibly also the methodology adopted—did not allow it to go further. The result was that some of the amendments, as in 2009, were incomplete and until today, the closure of a cycle that has been too long for several years. In short, I would like to stress that over the years, the political power and the protections of defence have shown to be aware of the need to adapt our model to the post-War Cold, a period that has lasted three decades and has already experienced several mutations. We have advanced something, but insufficiently, and therefore we have a significant gap between our financial and structural effort rate and the operational product achieved. Today we have the opportunity and obligation, on behalf of the investment made in the Armed Forces, on behalf of the effort of each of our military and on behalf of the full fulfilment of the multiple missions, always assumed and never denied, we have the obligation, he said, to take the decisive steps that are missing to prevent the dispersion of means and some legal entropies that still condition the performance of our Armed Forces. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I now propose to identify some specific aspects of these amendments. This is a reform that looks at the challenges of the present and the future, not those of the past. The Armed Forces do not exist for themselves and the branches do not exist for themselves. They are at the service of the effective defence of national interest in an increasingly conflicting, more competitive and more rapidly changing world. The factors affecting our strategic positioning and the position of our Armed Forces are in transformation, particularly with changes in the distribution of power at global and regional level, with the rapid development of new capabilities, with changes in the threat type and with changes in the type of priority missions. Today, we have to confront hybrid attacks and cyberattacks and a sudden evolution of disruptive technologies, from robotics to artificial intelligence. We need to develop a technological response capacity and we need to commit expeditionary forces to deal with security crises in regions that we are directly or indirectly interested in. We must also do so in close cooperation with our international partners and with the other agents of the State in a position that must be comprehensive, coherent and coordinated. These changes all compete in the sense of the need for integrated, joint, multi-dimensional and multi-domain responses. This is what is enshrined in the Strategic Concept of NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) of 2010, or in the 2016 Global Strategy of the European Union. It is also what is enshrined in our 2013 National Defence Strategic Concept (CEDN). This is why discussions are taking place at NATO 2020 - 2030, as well as within the framework of the European Union's Strategic compass. That is the reality of the contemporary world in which we live. It would be strange if these transformations were not reflected in the structure of leadership and superior command of the Armed Forces. This happened with our allies, each in its own way, but all in the same sense, in particular with the centralization of command in the CEMGFA ( Chiefs of the Armed Forces Staff). The argument that Portugal is so exceptional and so different, and the challenges we face are so diverse from the challenges of our allies, that we must be immune to this trend is an argument that lacks reasonableness. This is the real historical and geo-strategic context, and it is in response to this framework that we make these proposals, whose main outlines are those which I will then list. First, in the political-military relationship, clarity is established in the command line. This is a basic principle in the Armed Forces. A minister should not have the function of managing each branch individually in the military. The current dispersion in the relationship of guardianship with the Armed Forces undermines the overall orientation and makes it impossible to assume responsibilities. Currently, in the major issues, which extravagant the scope of the heads of the individual branches, or which are transversal to the Armed Forces, the guardianship gives guidance to the CEMGFA, but in turn it does not have effective control capacity, nor even full visibility in relation to what happens within the branches. With the amendments now proposed, it is easier to understand that the political-strategic dimension is responsible for the protection, the CEMGFA is responsible for the strategic-operational dimension and the managers of the branches are responsible for the operational and tactical dimension, and they also participate, cooperatively, in the structural and genetic fields. Secondly, these amendments allow us to finally have consistency between responsibility and powers stipulated in the law. It says LOBOFA ( Organic Law of the Armed Forces Organization ), that CEMGFA is responsible to the Government for the military response capacity of the Armed Forces. It seems to be taxing. However, there is a disparity between this accountability and the powers that the law assigns to CEMGFA. This reform aims to correct this discompassion, matching responsibilities with responsibilities in the law. Third, it is clear that for the performance of its functions, EMGFA ( Major-General State of the Armed Forces) should know, at every moment, where the means of the Armed Forces are engaged and which are available. The current drafting of the law, when determining as its own competence of the branches the « missions regulated by its own legislation », is a source of numerous legal and operational disputes. in this proposal it is clearly defined what the tasks of the branches are in order to ensure the effective management of a system of forces that is unique. Fourthly, we need to develop mechanisms to think what we want for our Armed Forces as a whole and we need to develop joint doctrine. In the past and at present, it is not possible to work clearly and consistently on the future of the Armed Forces as a whole and investment through the Military Programming Act is a good example. With these changes, the investment is being made thinking about the overall logic of the Armed Forces, which is fundamental in a framework where our missions are increasingly demanding it. Our resources will always be scarce in the face of needs and we cannot run the risk that, for example, cyberdefense areas or drones or space or other disruptive technologies, which may not meet the traditional priorities of each branch individually, will not have adequate funding. To have the Armed Forces properly equipped for the future, which is already the present we live, we must have equipment at the service of the Armed Forces as a whole. Without prejudice to the specificities and specialities of each branch, branches shall be managed in a global logic, depending on the missions assigned to the Armed Forces. Fifthly, I would like to stress that we have consciously chosen not to extinguish the larger states of the branches, an option that differs us from many other countries of our own size. The essential function of the branches is clear and vital to our Armed Forces, essentially corresponding to the generation of forces, its development and its support. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a prudent and thoughtful change, sustained and advised by the experience of the reforms of 2009 and 2014 and also by the experiences accumulated in the management of the various missions of the Armed Forces and in ongoing coordination with other national and international institutions, including the valuable lessons learned from combating the pandemic. The Portuguese know and respect their Armed Forces and the more they know, the more they respect, something that was evident during this time of combating the pandemic, in which the Portuguese learned in a very palpable way the effectiveness and the spirit of mission of our military. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What will be less obvious to those who observe from the outside is that the remarkable results have been achieved not because of the current organization of the higher structure but despite it, obliging the spending of a lot of energy, by military leaders and guardianship, in solving problems that are now being dealt with organically. The fundamental objective of the proposed amendments is that the intrinsic quality of our Armed Forces is not inhibited or embarrassed by the legislation leading to conflict in the upper structure, as is the case with current legislation, and that the resources invested in the Armed Forces correspond to the fundamental needs of the present and the future and not to separate and disassociated views. We have Armed Forces to be proud of. This is the time to create legislative conditions so that their capabilities are fully put in service in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u95	Mr Minister, four Mrs have signed up. Members for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u96	I am replying together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u97	All right, Minister. Mr Marcos Perestrello of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u98	Mr President, Minister, the proposals that we have brought to us and whose parliamentary debate begins today have been the subject of a lively public debate, but also institutional debate, in the very bodies where this debate must be held, at the National Defence Council and at the Military Superior Council. This debate, both institutionally and publicly, enables us to arrive here today, knowing that these proposals deserve the unequivocal support of the Socialist Party, but also of the Social Democratic Party and the CDS, and that, Mr Minister, from my point of view, is good news. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It enables us, Mr Minister, to see these proposals generally adopted on Thursday as soon as possible and enables us, as soon as possible next week, to start the specialized work so that this scheme is approved even before the end of the legislative session. It is not surprising, Mr Minister, that these proposals have such broad parliamentary support, because, after all, as the Minister here explained, they are not only part of the Government's programme, which was discussed at the beginning of this Parliament, as they have pointed out, more or less with the same formulation, several years ago, in various electoral programmes and in several government programmes that have supported the political action of different governments in this Parliament. These proposals, as Mr Minister has explained, do not constitute a rupture in relation to today's situation under the command of the Armed Forces, are a continuation in relation to the 2009 proposals and the 2014 proposal, are a transformation in line with the transformations that our allies have been making. As Mr Minister said, they are not solutions that are the same as our allies because, among our allies, there are no similar solutions to each other, but they are similar solutions that are in the same direction to adapt the command structure of the Armed Forces to the differentiation of the type of threats that have occurred in the international scene, to the changes that have occurred in the geostrategic plane and that they recommend a more concentrated command for the use of forces, but in particular in our case, maintaining, even more intensively than in many similar structures of our allies, a control and a very large role of the Major States of each branch of the Armed Forces in their own organization. Mr Minister, this model which is proposed here for the organization of the upper structure of the Armed Forces consists basically in the application to the general command of the Armed Forces of the rules that have already been applied, and which are enshrined in the law, to the national forces highlighted, and which have also been used, by virtue of an order which Mr Minister has given, in the action of the Armed Forces in combating the pandemic. Now, either, the use of national troops, or the recent use of the Armed Forces in combating the pandemic, are only a target of praise and are exemplary at the national and international levels.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u100	Mr Minister, the question I ask you concerns only with a criticism that has been made in the way this reform has been conducted. This criticism has to do with the fact that it is pointed out that, prior to this debate, the need to have had a discussion on the Strategic Concept of National Defence and, after this being discussed and reformulated, to realize, then, whether or not we should adapt the structure of the command of the Armed Forces to this new Strategic Concept of National Defence. What I ask you, Minister, is whether you think that would be the ideal, that you should have done this discussion first, or if you do not consider that this continuation of the reforms started in 2009 and 2014 has already, precisely, the response framework that the current Strategic Concept of National Defence and even the NATO Strategic Council require for the use of our Armed Forces. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u101	Mrs Ana Miguel dos Santos, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor now. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. and Mr Deputies, Minister, one of the basic principles of the Armed Forces is the principle of the unit of command of its structure. But there is another one, already foreseen in the National Defence Act (LDN) since 1982, which is the principle of non-governmentalization of the Armed Forces, in respect of which the PSD has been, is and will be deeply intransigent. We well know that, in principle, one of the consecrations of this principle is precisely the fact that the heads of the branches are appointed by the President of the Republic and we well know that the proposals currently under discussion maintain this level of appointment, i.e. by Mr President of the Republic, but, Minister, why must it be clear to all and why it would be intolerable for any kind of governmentization of the Armed Forces to exist? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u103	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u104	For a question a little more difficult, please!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the National Defence Act and LOBOFA are structural laws of national defence policy, but above them we have the Strategic Concept of National Defence and, above all, the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. We are still living under a model very influenced by the 1982 constitutional change, which demarcated the participation of the Armed Forces outside the military field and which at this time has no reason whatsoever to be, and the current pandemic crisis has further reinforced this idea. Mr Minister, do we not think it important to accompany some of our NATO partners and to amend the Constitution to enshrine the evolution of existing concepts, which are stagnant, for a more comprehensive concept of security and defence, and which allows the Armed Forces to participate in as many possible missions in the area of security and civil protection? As we all know, threats today are diffuse, they are no longer exclusively internal or external, but, yes, very transversal. In view of the lack of financial resources we have, it would be absurd to duplicate the means of civil protection or security forces when military forces have the same means and this competence to carry out and execute these missions. Another issue that left you, Minister, is the following: the CDS understands — how I will explain in my speech, forward — that before the National Defence Act is changed and LOBOFA should have updated the Strategic Concept, because it is the laws that we are now discussing that need to be adapted to the Strategic Concept and not the other way around. From that point of view, Minister : are you considering the start of the revision of the Strategic Concept of National Defence? If so, when and why didn't you do it before the amendments were made to the National Defence Act and LOBOFA? One last question: since the CDS wants, within committee, to make proposals for amendments to improve the National Defence Act and LOBOFA, in order to correct any excesses that may exist, are the Government and the Socialist Party available to accept these same proposals? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u106	For the latest requests for clarification to the Minister for Defence, Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Minister, one of the justifications submitted by the Government for this reform concerns the need for Portugal to adapt to the countries of Western Europe and NATO. The pretext of transnational threats is thus reversed by proposals that centralize decisions in a single unit of unipersonal charities, which goes in the sense of absolute submission to NATO and a belligerent logic which here deserves the frontal opposition of the Left Block. What the government was supposed to do was start by fulfilling the Constitution, which advocates the dissolution of the political-military blocs, such as NATO, an organization of war and not peace, militarist, with a very sad history of destruction and death, since what happened in Afghanistan, Yugoslavia and Libya. Turning back to the proposals of the Government, Mr Minister, we do not see this rush so dashed, without practically any prior dialogue with various entities, which would be advisable when the latest reform of LDN and LOBOFA was, after all, in 2014. It is true that Minister Aguiar-White of the PSD/CDS government wanted to go further in reform, but the PS, at the time, did not leave, saying that there was — look! — an excessive concentration of powers in the General Staff of the Armed Forces in the face of the weakening of the political structure of the Ministry of Defence. Now, curiously, it is the PS government that is advancing with this consolidation of powers in the General Staff of the Armed Forces, at the expense of the lowering of the bosses of the branches, doing all the work of the PSD without this party being in power, and from there we are witnessing the conditional support of the PSD — and now also of the CDS — to this reform. That is, without firing a single shot, the PSD gets everything it wanted. PS and PSD pull each other's necks and we'll know in due course which matches. In fact, this is a marriage made in the right way of the central bloc, as we have already had in other agreements between two in this Parliament, but those who lose are the Armed Forces and the Country. There are many criticisms and the challenge of several entities to this reform is strong. The Left Block is even more concerned when some of these criticisms advance that, with this reform, the Armed Forces are more decharacterized and subject to political-party instrumentalization, and can open the doors to corruption in defence business. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions: why is there such a rush to advance this reform in the midst of a pandemic, social and economic crisis? What are the studies on which the government has been based? The strengthening of the powers of the CEMGFA at the expense of the decrease of the powers of the heads of the various branches of the Armed Forces, of the school decisions, will not constitute a factor in impoverishment of democracy within the Armed Forces, further increasing their discontent and degradation of the military condition? Will it not be unwise, and even dangerous for the armed forces and for the country, to have this reinforcement and that the Chief of the General Staff will concentrate the three commands, strategic, operational and tactical? Finally, Minister, what comments do you have to make when some entities advance that this reform can boost certain businesses in the defence sector? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u108	To reply, Mr. Minister for National Defence has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions you have asked me and for the order you have given me. Mr Marcos Perestrello, you are talking about the institutional debate process that took place. It is important to remember that these amendments here have faithfully followed what is prescribed in our political order, and that is where we should concentrate our attention, particularly with successive meetings of the Military Superior Council, which is where the minister meets with the leaders, and the National Defence Superior Council, chaired by the President of the Republic, and I myself have had the opportunity, on several occasions, to dialogue with the representatives of the parties, in order to extend to the maximum what is a desirable consensus in this House. I also agree that we are faced with a process of continuity and not of rupture. It is a process that represents the closure of a cycle, a cycle that is already long, a cycle of reform initiated in 2009, continued in 2014 and which now closes with these proposed amendments. in this sense, it is very important to remove the ideas proposed by some that we are facing something radically new. Only those who do not observe the reality of national defence are that they may be surprised by this amendment, that if it had not been done in 2021 far-CL - it would be in 2022, or 2023 or 2024. This seems to me to be the right time, we see no reason to postpone. Another issue concerns the Strategic Concept of National Defence, and on this subject I also take advantage of to respond to Mr. Pedro Morais Soares by saying the following: we are very late in organizing the superior structure of our Armed Forces in the face of the succession of strategic concepts that have evolved and that tell us about it. The 2013 Strategic Concept of National Defence, which is a Strategic Concept that already advocates these changes, makes clear the need for these changes partially achieved in 2014. But also the other Strategic Concepts are relevant to us, as is the case with the Strategic Concept of NATO 2010, which will be updated in 2022, and the case of the Strategic Concept of the European Union, called the Strategic compass, which is currently under preparation. There is strictly nothing in these proposals that is contradictory to what is foreseen in these Strategic Concepts, but on the contrary, what is evidence of a growing shift in our superior structure of the Armed Forces in view of what are the needs emphasized in the Strategic Concept. Mrs Ana Miguel dos Santos asked, well, about the issue of governance. I say « and well» because it is something that must always worry every time it touches on some matter related to our Armed Forces. However, what I would like to stress in this regard is that there is no strict change in the current relationship between the political system and our armed forces. There is no change in the powers of guardianship, there is no change in the balance of powers between the Government, the Assembly of the Republic and the Presidency of the Republic. There is no change in the mechanisms for the appointment of military leaders, there is no change in the way the National Defence Superior Council or the Military Superior Council operate, where the leaders participate. Therefore, there is no element that can serve as a basis for an idea that I have heard in the media, about governance, and I thank the opportunity it gives me to fully clarify this matter. Mr. Pedro Morais Soares, I spoke about the issue of the Strategic Council of National Defence, but he went further and asked about the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Of course, this matter is not being debated, however, but I am telling you, with all honesty, that it is time to think about the missions of the Armed Forces identified in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Matter aside, matter for another moment, matter for this House, when this House understands that the time has come to do so. However, I believe that, among other experiences, the recent pandemic feeds on the need to think how our Armed Forces relate today to our security forces and what our Constitution should say about this. Mr. João Vasconcelos, in effect, separates us from very large distances. However, I am surprised to think that these proposals mean that we must adapt to the countries of Western Europe. I did not say this at any time, said that we live in the same world that they, that our world is not different from them, that they have made changes, already consecrated over the years, so it is worth asking whether our reality is so different that we can afford to maintain a structure that is radically different. As for the processes, to the previous dialogue, I would like to say the following: what is the good school in public policy, we learn from the previous lessons, we learn from the lessons of 2009, we learn from the lessons of 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u110	Minister, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President, to conclude, I would also like to say the following: precisely because we have learned from these experiences, we have decided to opt for what is the methodology established in our Constitution, in our political order. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u112	To present the PCP bill, Mr.António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u113	Mr. President, Minister for National Defence, Mrs. and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In the 90s of the last century, the policy of the 3 R—restructuring, reorganizing and resizing—, fed official speeches for some time, and generated some expectation as to the need to adapt the structure of the Armed Forces out of the colonial war to the requirement of fulfilling its constitutional mission. An expectation that quickly disappeared, considering that, essentially, the objective was not to restructure, reorganize or resize but only to centralize and standardize, adopting models of armed forces from the so-called allied countries, aiming primarily to standardize management models without taking into account the history, culture and tradition of our military institution. This was the case in particular with the so-called "coronel law", with the termination of compulsory military service, so it was with the successive amendments to the legislation that examined the autonomy of the Armed Forces, in particular with regard to the method of selecting military leaders, that was also with the development of a new pay system, the negative effects of which are still felt today. The successive amendments to the National Defence Act and the Basic Organic Law of the Organization of Armed Forces have taken significant steps towards a governmentalization, which begins, at the level of the upper structure, to give clear signs of being able to compromise the constitutional principle of the partisan exemption of the Armed Forces. These legislative changes did not result in the improvement of the quality of administration, training, training and operational product, nor in the strengthening of solidarity and control unit at the top of the hierarchy. The limitation of financial and human resources and the degradation of the military condition continue to create situations of discomfort resulting from non-resolved problems, including the realization of military aspirations and expectations for careers and the pay system. at the level of equipment and operationality we saw a gap between national needs and existing means, with the military reequipment subject to the goal of national participation in international missions and multinational forces, in a process with negative reflections at the level of the macro indicators of the Armed Forces, which point to the reduction of their operational capacity, maintenance of means and qualification, training and training of personnel. The indicators disclosed last week, which point to the increase in the number of military effectors in 2020, are inseparable from the state of exception in which we live, which determined the retention of military personnel from the complement framework whose contracts ended during that period and have been called to military effectiveness in the reserve, and does not eliminate, even disguise, the dramatic lack of effect of the Armed Forces, inseparable from the lack of attractiveness of service in the Armed Forces and military careers. The situation of the Armed Forces is a result of a process promoted by PS, PSD and CDS, by successive governments that have put into practice a strategy of submission to the European Union and NATO, creating over time new links of involvement and dependence of our Armed Forces in order to force the sharing of means and missions of sovereignty, which will lead, in time, to their specialization and periphery not in a framework of equality or reciprocity of advantages and defence of national interests, but to sub-alternise the strategic objectives of the great powers, particularly in terms of doctrine, training and training. in this sense, the discussion we are conducting today should have been preceded by a broad debate around the Strategic Concept of National Defence and the Armed Forces that we want for the country, whose conclusions should have translated into the necessary adjustments in the organization, including in the higher structure, in the device and in the system of forces, in a given period and with the necessary investment. A debate in which we want to participate with our contribution, based on the idea that Portugal needs a national and patriotic strategy, based on its own thoughts and constitutional values and principles. That is also why the CFP presents, and today submits the discussion, proposals for amendments to the National Defence Act and to LOBOFA, proposals aimed, among other aspects, at refocusing the powers of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces and at adapting the general rules for the exercise of military rights to the constitutional framework, bringing them closer to the level of the rights of the military in most countries of the European Union, but also restoring some aspects of the autonomy of the three branches of the Armed Forces, in particular in the process of selecting and appointing the military for their superior structure. With regard to the fundamental rights of the military and their representative associations, it would be good if the Government, so eager to follow the models of other countries of NATO and the European Union, also accompanied some of these countries on the recognition of socio-professional rights of the military and, once and for all, referred to the historical past a situation in which to be an association leader in the Armed Forces means to be discriminated against, impaired in career or target of disciplinary persecution.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u114	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u115	As far as the Government's proposals are concerned, we do not consider them desirable and much less urgent to start this discussion by the upper structure of the Armed Forces. In particular, we do not expect sufficient efficiency and efficiency gains to justify the concentration of decisions in a single military leader, notably through the passage of the Council of Chiefs of Staff from deliberative bodies to the consultation body of the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces, and the subsequent formal sub-alternisation of the Heads of State-Major of Branches in decisions on structural matters, such as the Strategic Military Concept, the device and the military force system. And do not say, as some have already done, that, because there are several situations that deserve answers, one thing must not prevent another, because the facts show that for some things there is always time and opportunity, but for others that never happens. For this set of reasons, the CFP disagrees with these bills and will therefore vote against them. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u116	Mr António Filipe, the Bureau registered two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS and the Left Block, to send you requests for clarification. I don't know how you want to answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u117	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u118	All right, Mr. Deputies. So you have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Diogo León, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Filipe, let me congratulate your parliamentary group on presenting initiatives, even when they go on a notoriously diverging line of the meaning of the proposals which the PS Parliamentary Group supports, but this naturally reinforces the democratic debate. With regard to the proposal to amend LOBOFA, it obviously represents a return to the past when it restores aspects of the autonomy of the three branches, reverting to situations prior to LOBOFA in 2009. Already in the proposal to amend the National Defence Act, the CFP proposes far more substantial amendments. If you have rightly referred to the term « governmentisation », when referring to the reform of the Government, we could almost speak of a presidential impulse of the CFP, in order to compromise Mr President of the Republic, who is also the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, in this capacity also exercises its broad judiciary of influence, not requiring for that a functional strengthening of powers in the field of external and internal employment of the Armed Forces, where they already intervene with the use of the Supreme Council of National Defence. But the most significant thing to highlight is the 'class struggle' : the CFP proposes the right to the demonstration of the military and the right to collective petition, two instruments which military ethics and military duties clearly discourage and violate the principles of cohesion and the hierarchical structure itself, which are part of the matrix and genesis of military service. The clarification I ask you about asking the honourable Member where the coherence is, since they seem to want 'to please Greeks and trojans'. Do you think it is compatible, consistent, desirable to strengthen the traditionalist role of the leaders of the branches and, at the same time, to allow the classes of military rights such as that of demonstration and collective petition, proper to the union struggle? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u120	For a request for clarification, Mr. João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Filipe, indeed the proposals of the CFP are quite different from those put forward by the Government, are proposals that strengthen democracy within the Armed Forces and enhance the constitutional rights of the military. We had a government of bad memory, the PSD / CDS government, which made a number of cuts in reforms and pensions, attacked workers' rights, etc. No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u122	There comes the music!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u123	...and the military did not stand aside, also suffered, in their stocks, those cuts and the loss of rights. The PS governments will come and the military have felt no relief in their existence. Injustices continue to repair: due to the reduction of effectives, there is an increasing burden on the fulfilment of missions; on health care; on social protection; on the military condition. Anyway, there's a constant degradation. For the Left Block, there was no need to move in the National Defence Act and in the Organic Law of the Armed Forces. In any case, the proposals of the CFP, as I said, prove positive, in a general way, however, I would certainly like to ask Mr António Filipe a few questions. Instead of the government moving into the National Defence Act and LOBOFA, could you, for example, not be concerned with valuing the military condition of our military? On the other hand, the Left Block also has serious doubts when Mr António Filipe presents in his proposal measures that will strengthen the powers of the President of the Republic, as Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. Would it not be more advisable for the Assembly of the Republic to have this reinforcement in effect instead? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u124	You have the floor to answer, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for reasons of time saving, and naturally thanking you for your questions. Mr. Diogo León and Mr. João Vasconcelos, I will try to synthesize the answers. Mr. João Vasconcelos, it is clear that we think there should be other priorities, but, as I said in the rostrum, for these there is never a time and much less money and, therefore, what we think is not a priority, which is this reform, is what the government is proposing, and that is what we are discussing today. On two issues raised here, one on the role of the President of the Republic and one on the rights of the military, the Constitution enshrines the President of the Republic as Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. However, with regard to the National Defence Law, the densification of this status falls short of what would be desirable, in terms of an adequate balance and interdependence between the various sovereignty organs. And, for us, this is a matter of some serious concern in the field of the use of Portuguese armed forces outside the national territory, because under the National Defence Act, it is possible that this use occurs, even if there is an opposition by the President of the Republic. This has already caused problems, particularly in the past, when the possibility of sending soldiers to Iraq, in which it had to find a way, precisely with the President of the Republic, which would be unnecessary, if the presidential powers were properly set up in the National Defence Act. But the fundamental issue, for us, is that of military rights. Mr. Diogo León, the rights that you mentioned here are already in the National Defence Act, the military already have those rights. What happens is that the provisions on these rights contain vague formulations, including the concepts of 'cohesion' and 'discipline' of the Armed Forces, which in the past justified the disciplinary persecution of the association leaders, which led Portugal to be criticised by the European associations that bring together the trade unions and military associations.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u126	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u127	But now, and to conclude, Mr President, on the rights of the military, Portugal is among the most remote countries at the level of the European Union, which were precisely those where democracy arrived later, namely Greece and Spain, and is far from the situation of countries, such as the Netherlands, where there are military unions. And the armed forces in those countries have not disappeared because of this fact, they have not been characterized by that fact. Therefore, it would be good if the government, as it wants to follow models in what we think is bad, could also follow models in what we think is better. We therefore hope that this reflection will still lead to some improvement in this matter. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u128	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will move on to a phase of interventions on the content of the initiatives under discussion and on other matters. To that end, Mrs Ana Miguel of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the basic principles of the Armed Forces is that its organization is based on a vertical and hierarchical structure, whose organs relate to having as fundamental reference the principle of the unit of command. in this sense, the PSD has consistently and repeatedly defended in its electoral programmes since 2002 that, and I quote, the « allocation of adequate command and control capacity of the Armed Forces to the Chief of the Armed Forces Major-General in time of peace or war, is a relevant objective, which must be achieved in the short term ». In addition to its commitment to the latest reform of national defence, the « Defense 2020 » Reform, the National Strategic Council of the PSD has recently presented its programme and its vision of national defence, which resulted from the contribution of various entities, not only military but also, and above all, civil society. It is thus crystal clear what the party has been defending, consistently, over the past few years, and in line with the generality of the European countries. I quote: "CEMGFA must be constituted as the Chief of Defence Staff ; branch commanders move to the effective direct dependence of the CEMGFA in the operational field, including the current management of resources that today depends on the Minister of National Defence ; the commands of the component of the three branches are the development and support of the operational forces and means to be used under the command of the CEMGFA and the conduct of the missions regulated by its own legislation. Do not keep on seeking. ” At the same time, and in the path of what had already been defended in the last major reform of national defence, the Defense 2020 Reform, the PSD also considers that it is necessary: to ensure that the system of forces is built in a balanced manner, through a greater investment parity allocated to the specific capabilities of the branches; to strengthen strategic and operational level control and control systems, in the face of the latest challenges of emerging disruptive technologies; to strengthen the capacity of the Armed Forces for intervention in disaster or emergency situations, as well as in human security projects; and to build a national crisis management system, ensuring that the civil emergency planning function is once again a responsibility of the Minister of National Defence. The Government now presents two amendments to the National Defence Act and LOBOFA, today, here under discussion. In essence, these amendments propose two major amendments, the first of which concerns CEMGFA, which is the operational commander, having in their hierarchical dependence the Heads of the branches, for all military matters, having the same powers as they already have in the national forces highlighted. Together, and this is the second amendment, the Council of Heads becomes a consulting body in line with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. In short, contrary to what the Government presents, we are not faced with any reform, but rather with clarifications or adjustments in the upper structure, which merely equate the powers of the CEMGFA in the national territory with those already available in the international missions with our outstanding national forces. But, as I said recently, the PSD has its vision of national defense, which is not a circumstantial vision, or dependent on the moment or political struggle. It is a structured vision, as I said, and holistic of national defense, aimed at defending national interest, a vision that is based on reality and always designing the future. No one can deny that the strategic circumstances resulting from the end of the Cold War in 1989 have radically altered the conditions of preparation and employment of our Armed Forces and have led to profound changes not only in terms of the nature of the means, but also in terms of their organization or also in terms of the type of operations. These amendments, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they put, and they have, enormous challenges to the military condition. It is precisely about these challenges that all, without exception, must concentrate our attention and guide our efforts. This is the discussion we have to make: on the challenges to military status and on the challenges of our soldiers. Yes, the soldiers, men and women who daily bear their burden and display the national flag, who proudly defend, with the risk of their own life.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u131	Yes, the soldiers! The personification of the military condition!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u133	We need to remember the military condition. We must not forget what distinguishes a military from other officials or agents of the State, and this distinction is precisely the essence of the military condition. to the military, we request subordination to the national interest, the permanent availability to fight in defense of the homeland, if necessary with the risk of life itself,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u135	... by subjecting the risks inherent in the fulfilment of military missions. And what do we offer? Oh, my God! What have we offered? Oh, my God! A square of the permanent frames of the Navy—which is the only military branch with a square frame—at the beginning of its military life, it receives about 700 €. Now, a police officer or a Republican guard, in the same condition, takes about € 1100. That is, there is a wage difference of 400 €. How can we attract people to the Armed Forces? Oh, my God! The current situation of the Portuguese Armed Forces is very clear: we have more officers and sergeants than squares. Today, we no longer have a pyramid in the structure of the Armed Forces, because its base has decreased. We have a structure that is much closer to a prism, the Army being the most affected branch, in proportional terms. The loss of effectiveness in the Armed Forces has been a structural problem, for which we are all called to reflect. The PSD is aware that the problem is not solved by decree or at one time, but we have to start somewhere. It's time to act. The PSD has submitted proposals in this regard. In addition, it was the only party to submit proposals in the 2020 Supplementary Budget for the Armed Forces. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u136	The creation of a system of squares in the Army and the Air Force was also an example. Only PSD and CDS voted in favour. The PS voted against and the PCP and the Left Block abstained. It was not approved. Is this it, My Lords? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we are discussing the 21st century Armed Forces, which are no longer the guarantor of territorial integrity or national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u137	Aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u138	The Armed Forces are also an active agent in the promotion of human security in time of peace, the best-equipped agent to deal with new threats and new types of emergencies, such as the one we have experienced, for which we can draw very good lessons on the importance of the Armed Forces in combating the pandemic of COVID 19. As I said, the Armed Forces are now increasingly an active agent in the promotion of peace. That is why we have to speak of Aliu Camará, the Portuguese soldier who, when entering a United Nations peace support mission in the Central African Republic, managed to survive a very serious accident of his car when he was integrated into a military column in the theatre of operations. Fortunately, he managed to survive, but unfortunately he had to amputate both legs and put two prostheses. Since then, it has sought to find a possibility of Camará being covered by a regime that gives him dignified protection, in particular with his continued service to the Army. However, it has not yet been possible. We must act quickly to correct this injustice, because the contract of soldier Aliu Camara approaches its term and he cannot feel abandoned by his country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u140	Like I said, wars today are different. The fights today are others. We no longer send our soldiers to war. Today, we send soldiers to make peace and protect people, because, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the 21st century Armed Forces do not make war, they make peace. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u141	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: As the former President of the Republic said, this reform is a mistake in time to be corrected. He said this because, in fact, it is not only about the governmentalization of the Armed Forces, but about their true instrumentalization. When we change the top structure with the only objective of suffocating, we are allowing the Armed Forces to happen the same way that this government has tried to do to justice, security forces and the various sectors of society. Many say that it's corporateism and that those who don't want to allow this law to pass are giving way to military corporateism. None of that. They are, yes, to allow the autonomy enshrined in the National Defence Act, the autonomy of the branches, their effectiveness and operationality to be truly valued and not ignored by a government that no longer wants to suffocate the top of the Armed Forces, making it subordinate to the political will of those who command and the parliamentary majority. We must not fail to put forward a reform proposal, when what we should be discussing was the strengthening of military structures rather than their command or operationalization reform from the top. When we should discuss the renewal and restructuring of careers, we should discuss who is at the top. When we should discuss the integration of so many who are feeling abandoned, as has been said, we discuss who should command, within the political majority that governs. This is a sign that we should be concerned about.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u143	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time to intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u144	I shall conclude by strengthening the appeal that this rule does not pass. It is never too much to mention an old Chief of State of the Armed Forces, who has left us this dramatic alert, for which we should look and perceive: a misconception to the point and even in time to be returned.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u145	Mr Diogo Leone, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u146	Mr President, Minister of National Defence, Secretary of State for Human Resources and Former Affairs, Under-Secretary of State and National Defence, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members : We are debating a proposal for an amendment to the National Defence Act and a new Organic Law on Bases of the Organization of Armed Forces. These are two indissociable proposals and the Government presents them with the intention of reformist intent to move forward on a path consolidated by political power, in view of the options and organizational models of the military institution, which we should call « reform of the military superior structure », or « reform of the superior command structure of the Armed Forces. We do not seek semantic shortcuts that only confuse and do not clarify. It does not fall into the simplistic formula of saying that it is about the reform of the Armed Forces, when we approach ourselves, yes — deeply, it is true — in terms of the organization of the command, council, EMGFA and branches. With these legislative amendments, the purposes and foundations of the Armed Forces remain unchanged: their missions and objectives are maintained; the military service model is maintained; the existing capacities are maintained and the efforts to modernize and create new capacities at the level of the military institution are maintained; the need to strengthen the military condition remains. None of this is under discussion with these legislative amendments. We can even admit the need of the country to update the Strategic Concept of National Defence by discussing the State's defence priorities, but certainly it will not be today and here. In methodological terms, let us be clear: the 2013 Strategic Concept of National Defence is absolutely compatible with the meaning of this reform, stating that « the predominantly common character of the action of the Armed Forces must extend not only to operational concepts, doctrine and procedures, but also to the institutional and organizational culture of the Armed Forces », considering that the deepening of the military reforms that favour joint action is unacceptable. The reformist commitment is clear in the Government Programme, which we cannot call an unknown or inaccessible document, and much less secret. There it can read: « The Government will definitely reorganize the Armed Forces, depending on the operational product, and it is essential that a joint capacity-based force structure be privileged, with more than likely the need for an effective joint command architecture. Do not keep on seeking. ” I stress that "reforming" in the proposed sense is developing in the deepening of principles that are already reflected in existing legislation and that, with this reform, they are clarified, leaving no gaps that allow doubts or interpretations. CEMGFA, to whom the current law has already directly and exclusively responsible for the overall military response capacity of the Armed Forces before the Minister of National Defence, must possess the authority inherent in the responsibilities that are already requested to it on a daily basis and under any circumstances. It is necessary, even imperative, that the command structure of the Armed Forces, particularly at the level of the operational component above and beyond borders, should have the appropriate conditions to carry out, without hesitation or subterfuges of any kind, the missions entrusted to it. While some speak of « military autocracy», which is impossible in an armed forces in a democratic country, we remember that CEMGFA leads and controls this superior structure and that the hierarchical chain cannot be confronted with entropies; it must be absolutely transparent, clear and obvious. hence the need for its centralisation. While others speak of « governmentization», we categorically reject this notion,... [[Congrats from PS Miguel Matos.]] ... fully displaced by a reality in which the political responsibility for the Armed Forces remains unchanged with this reform, maintaining itself, and well divided by the various sovereign bodies, in particular in a balance, in a shared co-responsibility between the President of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic and the Government. in this measure, the Socialist Party defends that this reform closes a cycle of organizational reforms of the Armed Forces, following 2009 and 2014, dealing with a process of normalization, harmonization, consolidation and robustness of pre-existing responsibilities, resulting from the political will of extended majority, and not from a revolution or disturbance of concepts, unlike some echoes of the public debate so far have suggested. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In short, this reform appears only as an apparent surprise or as unheard of for those who fully oppose the change or transformation of the military organization. By agreeing or diverging, in whole or in part, when a logic and constructive intervention are underlying, there is always room for institutional dialogue, and this should, preferably, be maintained with the current military leaders. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this reform, there is no change in the process of selecting and appointing military leaders. Yes, there is a better and sharper political-military articulation, centered on two permanent interlocutors: the Minister of National Defence, on the Government's side, and the Chief of the General Staff, as head of the highest hierarchy in the Armed Forces, now with real powers to carry out answers on all matters of a military nature, in close coordination with the heads of branches that are subordinate to him. The Chiefs of Staff of the branches maintain all authority as commanders of the Navy, the Army and the Air Force and their own branches all their dignity. Currently, the branches are already essentially called for the generation, preparation, development and support of the forces of the operational component of the force system. In the specific case of the Navy and the Air Force, the Chiefs will continue to assume autonomous command of the search and rescue missions and the Heads of the branches shall not lose authority or capacity to exercise operational command in missions and operational competences delegated to them by CEMGFA. In relation to political power, the Heads of Branches maintain their role as advisers of the Minister of National Defence within the framework of the Military Superior Council and maintain, on a permanent basis, direct dependence on matters relating to the implementation of projects under the Military Programming Act and the Military Infrastructure Act, as well as on administrative and budgetary matters. The Council of Chiefs of Staff continues to be the main advisory body in the dependence of CEMGFA, but moves from its majority deliberative character to a majority advisory character, maintaining some relevant deliberative competences. The Council shall remain a collegial and central body for coordination and co-responsibility between the CEMGFA and the branches and, in all matters of greater importance and where appropriate articulation is necessary, the Council shall deliver opinions on proposals and preliminary drafts that favour the overall needs of the Armed Forces in the overall view, allowing the position of the branches to be known. In most cases, when it comes to the allocation of resources and means, the final decision will be at the level where it should be: at the level of the political decision-maker. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in a world that is in peace at the same time more dangerous and unstable, the Armed Forces are required the efficiency and effectiveness that can only be generated by the deepening of joint capacities, and therefore a fundamental pillar of this reform is the strengthening of the unit of command at strategic and operational level — a path consistent with that assumed by most of our countries in the post-war Cold War. We will honor and perfect the path made here, preparing the future. The Government, the Armed Forces and the Country are therefore aware of the Socialist Party's strong support for the reform of the upper command structure of the Armed Forces, which, we are sure, a large parliamentary majority will realize, on behalf of the national interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u147	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mr Pedro Morais Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : We are discussing today several amendments to the National Defence Act and LOBOFA, coming from the Government and also from the CFP. First of all, I would like to highlight the importance that both the other law has in the policy of national defence and in the structuring of our Armed Forces. We are therefore discussing something very important in terms of Parliament's powers and functions. This debate, which begins here today and will be further developed in committee, will count on the active contribution of the CDS to improve these proposals, as has been parliamentary practice. The reforms that occurred over time and the adoption of legislation were mostly done with the support of the CDS, the PSD and the Socialist Party, in a position of consensus on national defence laws. It happened in 2014 when, before the discussion of the National Defence Act and LOBOFA, we had the discussion and amendment of the Strategic Concept of National Defence. This occurred in 2009, a discussion that was not preceded by the update of the Strategic Concept of National Defence, which the CDS did not cease to criticize. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members, the first criticism the CDS points out is exactly that: first, the Strategic Concept of National Defence should have been discussed and updated and only then these laws. The average duration of a National Defense Strategic Concept has been 10 years. The current has already passed eight, so it would be normal that at this time we were discussing the necessary updates to the current Strategic Concept. Puts this first criticism, and in the first analysis of the amendments, the opinion of the CDS is that they are sufficiently positive and go against most of the equivalent laws of our Atlantic Alliance partners — in fact, it is never too much to remember that, even though the PCP and the Left Block do not like, convergence with NATO and with our allies is an aspect always valued by the CDS. Mr Minister, however, there are some aspects that we believe can and should be improved in Parliamentary committee. It is therefore necessary to be duly clarified and expressed that the Heads of State-Major of the branches are endowed with administrative autonomy. The hierarchical dependence — for all military matters — of the Heads of State Major to the Head of State Major General is a change in the matrix of dependence of military leaders on the management of the resources and capabilities of the branches, which has consequences, which is essential to understand, in order not to find incongruence not tested and which cannot result from the legislative intervention in question. In this respect, it is important to safeguard the competence for the administration of the branch. The maintenance of the administrative autonomy of the branches cannot be called into question. This aspect has to be quite explicit. Mr Minister, in these and other areas, the CDS will contribute to improving the proposal under discussion. I cannot, however, at this time — because two of the most important laws on national defence are discussed — cease to address two of the main problems of national defence, which it is important that not only these proposals but, above all, the Government responds. For if it is important to update and harmonise defence laws, as important as it is to have the necessary effectives and to have the essential means and resources for our Armed Forces. According to the letter from former military leaders that much, and well, served the homeland, and I quote: "They have left themselves to solve numerous problems, public and notorious, which are related to the failure to coincide with the resources made available with the defined objectives. It also refers to the letter, and the CDS attests, the « situation today is much worse». If we check the numbers for 4. the quarter of 2020, we find that there are currently 26 220 soldiers who, despite being the highest quarterly value of the last two years, are still far from 30 000, a number considered at least indispensable. It remains similar to 2019, the year in which the current Chief of the General Staff considered this situation unsustainable. But not only in relation to the number of effectives that the situation is unsustainable, but also in relation to resources and resources. The CDS has long been alerting to the serious consequences of the so-called pocket seizures. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : As good as it may be for the amendments to the National Defence Act and LOBOFA, if we continue with capacitious capacitations, with a lack of planning or with little effect, the situation will continue, as said Admiral Silva Ribeiro, in 2019, unsustainable. And that, I'm right, neither the CDS nor the government want. The CDS will always be present, next to and in defense of the military institution. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u149	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government is presenting to us today two proposals for discussion on important matters. One that intends to approve the new Organic Law of Bases of the Organization of Armed Forces and one that amends the National Defence Law. On this subject, the Greens consider it important to underline some notes from now on. Let us begin with the proposal to establish the new Basic Organic Law of the Organization of Armed Forces to say that this new law was constructed by the Government having as a guiding light mixed in the upper structure of the military institution, from then on through the concentration of powers in the Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces. In our view, however, it was precisely necessary to recover some elements related to the autonomy of the three branches of the Armed Forces, in particular with regard to the mechanisms and the process of selecting and appointing the military for the upper structure. In fact, if we look back, we can easily see that the various amendments that the Organic Law of the Organization of Armed Forces has been knowing over time, and always in order to accentuate the concentration of decisions, at nothing have contributed to enriching the quality of administration or to strengthening the solidarity and unit of command at the top of the hierarchy. In addition, this gradual process of concentration has been a promoter of doubts that should not take place in this area, especially when it comes to matters such as, for example, the progression in the career of general officer and even the processes of appointment for leaders. in a more comprehensive reading, with this proposal from the Government is, of course, concerned the desirable balance with regard to the distribution of powers or competences between the Minister of Defence, the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces and the Heads of State of the three branches of the Armed Forces. It was not, in fact, that this proposal deserved a challenge from several sectors and that a significant set of former Chiefs of Staff of the Armed Forces, the Army and the Air Force signed a letter expressing serious and well-founded concerns about the evolution of the process of reform of the upper structure of the Armed Forces, promoted by the Minister of Defence and the Government. According to the subscribers of this letter, "there is no effective and structural vision for change; no supporting or supporting reform studies have been revealed; the sequence of planning processes established in the law has changed; they have left themselves to solve numerous problems, public and notorious, which are related to the non-consistency of the resources made available with the defined objectives and which would be much more premeditating; they have become confused by a discursive style that separates from traditional communication in national defence and that causes new subjectivity; and they do not measure the diminished conjugated effects of the factors mentioned." That is, this significant set of former Chiefs of Staff of the three branches of the Armed Forces expresses a deep concern not only with the content of the amendments themselves but also with the way in which the entire process involved this reform was conducted. Therefore, the Greens Ecological Party considers that no further effort can be made to see how and how the Government's proposals in this area can contribute to the desirable stability that is required for the Armed Forces and which is, in this context, a fundamental prerequisite for the Armed Forces to be able to respond to the demands arising from our constitutional architecture. With regard to the amendments to the National Defence Act which are also under discussion today, we would like to point out that we feel sensible about the proposals presented by the CFP, in particular with regard to the powers of the President of the Republic as Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, but also with regard to the rights of the military in service effectiveness. Indeed, if the power to declare war belongs to the President of the Republic and Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, for the most part, the President of the Republic and Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces should have the competence or power to authorize the involvement of the Armed Forces not only in missions against international aggressions or threats but also in military maneuvers outside our territory. The same is said about the extension of the representation of the Assembly of the Republic in the Superior Council of National Defence, from two to four elements, leaving the requirement for election by a majority of two thirds, which we also accompany, as well as the proposals that intend to remove subjective elements with regard to military rights in service effectiveness. Proposals that we understand as contributions not only to the desirable stability in the Armed Forces but also to the realization of constitutional rights to the military. However, we do not follow the Government in its proposals, which, in addition to what has been said, no longer aims at reaffirming submission to NATO and warlords, in clear and harsh confrontation with the Constitution, the Basic Law of the Country, the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and, in this particular case, with Article 7 thereof. o
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u152	Mr John Vasconcelos, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : In the last half century, the Portuguese Armed Forces went through various processes of transformation. After 25 April, between 1976 and 1982, it was the time of the Revolution Council. With the first constitutional review in 1982, the military returned to the barracks and became protected by the civil political power. Until 1991 the external missions of the Armed Forces shall be re-established. Between 1991 and 2015, the Portuguese Armed Forces are subject to various internal restructurings, with the reduction of their effectiveness, the end of compulsory military service, the professionalization of forces and the definition of the priorities of their missions. It was in 2009 that one of the most profound reforms with the Law of National Defence and the Organic Law of the Armed Forces took place ; with the PSD/CDS Government, there was a reduction in international missions, although increased subservience to NATO ; it also accentuated the degradation of the military condition. In 2014, we saw a new reform of the Armed Forces with the revision of the National Defence and LOBOFA Act, only five years after its approval, and the government then justified its review with the need to gain efficiency and resources. From 2015 onwards, with the new PS governments, covered by the so-called « dual use », the interventionist route of the Armed Forces at the internal level and in the national forces highlighted – justification is the hybrid and terrorist threats. We must reject the inclination of some sectors of our country, which are seeking to walk on a dangerous path to militarisation of society, as is already the case in other European countries. The current Government intends to undertake a new reform in the Armed Forces through the amendment of the National Defence Act and the approval of a new organic law, with a view to strengthening the importance of the Major-General State of the Armed Forces. One of the justifications is the adaptation of the Armed Forces to NATO, which deserves a total opposition from the Block, because it means greater dependence and subservience to this belligerent structure. There are many critical voices of this new restructuring within the Armed Forces. The government does not want to know and push the belly forward: the dialogue practically did not exist. In addition to the PS — the political force that supports the government and supports reform — we have weight support on the whole line from the PSD, and now also from the CDS. Interestingly, Aguiar-White failed to go further in its 2014 reform because the PS, in opposition, at the time, did not leave, and its votes in Parliament were necessary for the adoption of the laws. Now, without being ruling, the PSD seems to be going to get everything you wanted in 2014. It will be more a negotiation, in the good manner of the central bloc, not yet glimpsed the counterpart for both sides. Indeed, it does not cease to be very worrying, when Vasco Lourenço, of the Association 25 April, suggests that in this reform the PSD managed to capture the government party... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ... and that the same, I quote, « opens the doors to dirty acts of compassion and corruption in the many possible businesses within its scope». In the face of such harsh and cruel words, the citizens of this country are right to be seriously concerned. The Left Block also stays! The most controversial and worthy of further challenge are the strengthening of the role of the Chief of the Armed Forces Major-General, placing the branches under his authority without deliberative powers. Attributing superpowers to the Chief of the General Staff at the expense of lowering school precepts is wrong, impoverishes democracy and even becomes dangerous. In the current times, the concentration of power in a single person, however intelligent it is, will be to avoid, and it is preferable to make decisions based on collective thought. Minorization of the role of the Chiefs of Staff may be a factor of instability within the Armed Forces, which will be avoided. This reform, moving forward, will lead to the governmentalization and partisanization of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u154	Ui!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u155	The reduction of effects in the Armed Forces, which we have seen in recent years, has a very well-known diagnosis: the gradual degradation of the military condition — health, assistance to the military, the remuneration system and the military career. If there is degradation and there is no revaluation, of course the military career is not attractive. If there is an effective dignification of military function, it will be more attractive for young people and for society. If this is not taken into account, the current reform of the Armed Forces will be another steep failure, like the previous reforms. thus, the Left Block Parliamentary Group cannot endorse this initiative because it is a reform, in our view, of the central bloc, with the support of the CDS. Now, to conclude, I could not remain with the quiet conscience if I did not express my solidarity with the people of Palestine, who are being the victim of a genocide on the part of the State of Israel. To manifest neutrality is to be next to the oppressor — I am next to the oppressed, like the Left Block. [[At this moment, BE Member João Vasconcelos displayed an image with Palestinian flags.]] from here, I ask the Government to intervene by condemning the State of Israel for this genocide, which already goes to more than 200 fatal victims. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u156	Mr Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government present: The NAP views the Armed Forces as a structural institution of the State, whose importance is not exhausted in security matters and which was clearly evident in what we have seen during the past year in monitoring the health crisis or, for example, in implementing the vaccination programme. It is also important to say that we are not among those who sanctify the Armed Forces. On the contrary, we believe that our country must fight, within the NATO framework, by betting on diplomacy rather than an offensive logic based on militarized actions, which have so far been the single formula in pursuing these policies. More: we believe that the Armed Forces should not turn their backs on the challenges of the twenty-first century with regard to humanitarian missions, which are absolutely essential for the restoration of peace and humanitarian aid to so many countries, not only in the PALOP (African Countries of Portuguese Official Language) but in this outside world, in which the Portuguese people have indeed contributed invaluablely to their restoration. But also, and of course, we cannot ignore that the Armed Forces cannot continue to depart from the collective mission of our times, such as, for example, the fight against climate change and the adoption of actions necessary to deal with extreme phenomena associated with it, something to which the structure does not respond fully and which is done only with more cooperation with civil society and political power itself. Just as we believe that the Armed Forces must respond to the level of cybersecurity and the deepening of the role they can, and should, have in preserving the marine space and the protection of biodiversity itself, including marine biodiversity. We also understand that there are problems of remuneration, career problems, which have already been mentioned and which have to have an urgent response, health protection and integration in the labour market, after the military service, which must be resolved so that there is respect for all those who have served or served the country, as well as that there is a need to combat certain perdulatory investments in military equipment that are not used and to make more effective the use of the equipment that we have at our disposal and to increase the transparency and defence of the public interest in the procurement contracts of these equipment. We also understand that within the Armed Forces itself it is necessary to create mechanisms to combat corruption, in particular by strengthening the protection of complainants from within the organization. The fact that we do not sacralize the Armed Forces does not mean, however, that we believe that a reform should be done in a closed way, in a circuit around, above all, the central block and with a logic of the "cost of what it costs", without listening to civil society. Unfortunately, the reform that has been brought to us today by the government does not go far beyond this logic, which we have already rejected — despite the hearing we have witnessed — for example, along with opinions such as those of Ramalho Eanes or Vasco Lourenço. Mr. Minister of Defence, these names do not represent corporate interests. They respect, yes, the history of the Armed Forces and, in the view of the NAP, must also be heard and respected. The reform under consideration, in our view, places on a path whose centralization of powers must also go through the auscultation of these entities. In fact, when we speak in the powers of the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces, we know that this can be sold to us with a sense of modernization and effectiveness, but that it cannot replace the logic of collegiality with a centralized logic, which may not be the best solution. The risks, for example, of lack of transparency or scrutiny of decision-making should not be ignored, even less olympically. The strengthening of the powers of guardianship of the Directorate-General for National Defence Policy on military subjects is something that can bring politicization of the guardianship and of the followers themselves and must be avoided, because the Armed Forces cannot, nor should, be a mere public division or even what the people fear most: a life of friendship.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u158	Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u159	Finally, it is important to say that we believe it is important that, as the Government proposes to us, we seek to ensure that the decree establishing the effectives of the Armed Forces is now guaranteeing a long-term planning logic. With this in mind, we could not agree more or fail to welcome this initiative. Thus, and in view of what has been discussed here, as well as the various proposals in comparison, the NAP must not fail to call for all these diplomas to go down to the Commission without a vote, not only so that they can be worked and harmonized with the various concerns already expressed, including concerns that are not present in any of the proposals, but also that it can be involved in the reforms that are necessary for civil society and the agents of the Armed Forces, including in the debate of any reform that they also concern because of their historical and, indeed, the different representations of the armed forces sectors, by the reform being deeply intertwined with the replacement of careers and, also, with the recognition of a future post-military service, which has not happened so far. The NAP will not hinder, by abstention, the decline of these initiatives, if they insist on their vote, but we hope that, in the debate on the specialty, it will be possible to go further in this desire which is so fundamental for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u160	Mr Carlos Reis of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u161	Mr President, Minister for National Defence and his team, Mr. Members: In a young democracy like ours, still far from celebrating its first centenary, we know the difference between reform and revolution. We remember to live or hear how it was to see a regime born that allowed more than one party. How it was written, discussed and approved a Constitution that protected and defended rights, freedoms and guarantees. How it was to revise this Basic Law, democratizing it, integrating it into European space, adapting it at all times, without forgetting its spirit. We remember the first President elected by direct and universal suffrage; his courage, dignity and knowledge. We remember the first basic parliamentary governments. of the political forces that did everything for this House to be an authentic dwelling place of popular sovereignty, the representativeness of the people, the pluralism that the country gathers and gathers. We therefore have an obligation to know the difference between a revolution—which begins a new story—and a reform, which adds a new page to that story. The reform of the Organic Law of the Armed Forces therefore deserves to be looked at in this framework. Either way, ladies and gentlemen. Members, men and women serving Portugal as soldiers have always responded to the call of history. This was the case in 1974, when the Armed Forces Movement destroyed a regime that had for more than 40 years been a people for war and authoritarianism. This was the case in the hundreds of operations that joined both the Atlantic Alliance and the United Nations, with outstanding and internationally recognized performances. And so, over the past year, it was the greatest collective challenge we have faced since freedom, with its volunteerism and characteristic commitment. In vaccination, logistics, transport, military hospitals, disinfection of schools and homes, the Portuguese first-hand saw the importance of the Armed Forces in defending their well-being and safety.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u163	The Portuguese found in the Armed Forces a pride that they did not know and, with the view that the reality of the moment allows, they realized why the Constitution provides that they are also civil protection agents.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u165	A reform of its organic law therefore deserves a debate and a compromise on the part of the parties with parliamentary representation. Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what the PSD has sought and will seek to provide. No one is, or could be, immune to appeals of personalities like General Ramalho Eanes or President Aníbal Cavaco Silva. With certainly different thoughts and paths, they have something in common: they were both Supreme Commanders of the Armed Forces, they were both universally covered by the Portuguese people and dedicated their lives to serving our country. They are part of our history, so they deserve to be heard. And it was certainly in its contribution and sensitivity that we inspired us to, in the Committee on National Defence, carry the Statute of the Old Combatant, the result of a broad consensus, of course, but that it benefited a great deal from the PSD proposals ; which we proposed, in the debate in the last State budget, the establishment of a permanent framework of squares in the Army and the Air Force. That is why we know and argue that the motor force of the branches cannot only be made by sergeants; that we recognize that the root of the problem is in the conditions below and not above. Well, let's see. Between 2014 and 2018, more than 15 000 soldiers left the Armed Forces on their own will or by termination of their contracts. Only in 2018, more than 3000 soldiers left their positions and eight in ten left before the scheduled time, some still during their training. The difficulties of retention and recruitment are due to a lack of attractiveness, but also to the failure to comply with various laws that apply to military personnel, either in the incentive scheme or in the system of professional associabilism itself. As an institutionalist party, we are concerned about the dignity of the Armed Forces and we cannot accept, with the respect that we deserve, that even supermarket chains recruit in our ranks. We reject the use of Arsenal do Alfeite as a stage of government propaganda, when its failure represents an obvious waste of infrastructure and economic potential. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u166	To underestimate 700 years of history of our Navy, by political or strategic myopia, not wanting to recognize on our coast, on our platform, on our sea, an exceptional opportunity to overcome this economic crossroads, is a mistake, Mr Minister, which certainly costs the future. And we do not forget all those and those who wanted to continue their career in the Armed Forces, in their country, at our service, and were forced to abandon that dream, taking their life project away from their comrades of arms. I tell you about Rui Pinheiro, who did not feel valued and went disappointed from the Army ; I remember Mariana Gonçalves, who attended the Military Field of Santa Margarida during the year and a half — Mariana, with discounts made, won just over 400 € — followed her course, for sure! , at the Polytechnic Institute of Guards ; I remember the José Brás, today high frame of a pharmaceutical and who left the dream of the Air Force back there is already over 25 years; I remember the Tiago Novais, who is today in the Public Security Police, but who left his heart in the Armed Forces ; I remember others, many others, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, such as Filipe Belarmino Melo, who did not abandon the Armed Forces because he fought for Portugal, but who still awaits the recognition and appreciation that only the implementation of the Statute of the Old Combat allows. I shall finish, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying that these are examples representing hundreds of hundreds of Portuguese who illustrate that being a military in Portugal continues to mean, unfortunately, doing much with little, getting less, fearing the worst and believing the best. The Armed Forces do not only need a reform of their organic law, they need to become a national priority once and for all. Because it was always the nation's only priority. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u167	Mr Lara Martinho, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech. The PAN has yielded 45 seconds of its time to the PS. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is the reform of the Supreme Command of the Armed Forces that brings us here, but I can only point out that it has been a priority for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and for the Government to strengthen the effectiveness, which are the most important resource of national defence and the Armed Forces and that they are at the service of Portugal 24 hours, seven days a week, 365 days a year. Moreover, the Government has taken the path of recruiting better and ensuring retention and reintegration, and to give only a few examples, I highlight the increase of 23% of applications to the Military Academy and the increase of 49% of applications to the Army School of Sergeants. This proves that the reinforcement of effectives is not conjuncural, but we are at the beginning of a cycle of recovery of military effectives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, but it is the reform of the Supreme Command of the Armed Forces that brings us here and this is the reform that is being done on behalf of the national interest, which is inserted into a logic of reflection on the role of our Armed Forces in the present and future, in the face of a global security environment marked by new types of threats and challenges that require new responses, adaptation, deepening of competences and capabilities. If we want to be prepared for the future, we cannot continue to hold on to the past, at the risk of remaining behind. The world is constantly changing, in constant technological evolution, printing new dynamics in the global geopolitical and strategic landscape. We therefore welcome the Government and the Minister of National Defence for boldness and for wanting to continue to do more and more better by the Armed Forces, for national defence, but also for our collective security within the framework of the Atlantic Alliance, which is, in fact, going through a process of reflection on the challenges and threats of the next decade, to which this reform is not indifferent. Just as it will certainly not be indifferent to the revision that approaches our strategic concept of defence, which is almost 10 years old, but which is a strategic instrument of and for our sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is unthinkable to want armed forces prepared, trained, evolved, modernized and competitive and, at the same time, to defend that the structure of the Superior Command, which in Portugal has developed in several reforms since 1982, cannot and should not be altered. That is a contradiction, and it is because it would, unequivocally, result in the paralysis of the Armed Forces against their congeners. The reform that we are discussing today is not a rupture with the past, it is not to say that what has been done was wrong; it is simply to acknowledge that the world has changed and that it is necessary to do more, that the Armed Forces must follow this change, maximizing their operational effectiveness by acting as a whole, without multiplying areas that make sense that they are concentrated and promoting global coherence that will only make their response to emerging challenges a more integrated, with maximum effectiveness in all areas. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that our Armed Forces continue to provide an increasingly effective response to new threats and new missions. This is a structural reform, important and necessary for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u169	To close this debate, Mr. Minister of National Defence, João Gomes Cravinho, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate marks the beginning of the discussion of the proposals for amendment by LOBOFA and the National Defence Act in the Assembly of the Republic, House of Democracy, which is responsible for discussing and voting on these proposals. Therefore, the debate is in the right place and at the right time, in our democratic system, and could not be otherwise. It is essential that the debate now take place around the concrete proposals and ideas that the Government has brought here. It was clear to the honourable Members today. Members and for the Portuguese the essence of this reform. This is the fulfilment of a commitment from the Government Programme, which has kept successive commitments entered into in the government programmes of different party and ideological matrices since 1995. This is an evolution in continuity and closing a cycle, closing and giving enhanced coherence to the reforms carried out in 2009 and 2014 and definitely guiding our Armed Forces for the missions of this third decade of the 21st century. I want to leave here a word of peace for all Portuguese, civilian and military. The reform we propose will improve our Armed Forces. It changes some things that require change, sharpen some needles and clarify some questions, but the Armed Forces we know will continue to be the same as ever. We will continue with our military of the Navy, the Army and the Air Force ready, available and prepared to serve Portugal and the Portuguese, as they are today, fulfilling the oath that they have made to serve our country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the last two years it has been possible to approve in this House, by a large majority, structural defence diplomas. This was the case with the Military Programming Act, the Military Infrastructure Act and the Statute of the Former Combatant. Our ambition is that these proposed amendments are also the subject of an extended consensus. for my part, they have the commitment and openness of always in establishing the dialogue to achieve this consensus. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice-President José Manuel Pureza was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u171	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore close the third item on the agenda and take advantage of it to offer congratulations to the members of the Government present. The fourth item on the agenda consists in the general debate of the Bill No 65 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends Article 120. that of the Code of Municipal Property Tax approved in Annex to Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November in the wording given by Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March. The Bureau has not yet entered this debate. Let us therefore make a standstill so that parliamentary groups and Members can make their registrations. [[Pause.]] Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to this proposal for a law of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, I would like to begin by pointing out what, for the PSD — and the PSD does not devalue the importance — the payment of benefits taxes may mean to the taxpayer. The proof is that in 2013 a former PSD / CDS-PP government was introduced the possibility of IMI ( municipal property tax) being paid in three benefits in April, July and November, where it was worth more than €500. As is known by the end of 2012, the IMI was paid only once in April if the amount was equal to or less than €250 and in two benefits in April and September if it was of higher value. As everyone knows, the maximum number of benefits then introduced remains until today, although with different quantitative references. In spite of what I have just mentioned, it must be borne in mind — well in mind — that IMI is a local authority's own revenue and that this revenue is of particular relevance to the total volume of municipal revenue. What the legislative initiative proposes to us is very simple: among other things, it proposes that the amounts of more than €100 due to IMI can be settled in five benefits. As you know, currently only three benefits are allowed when the amount is more than 500 €. It also proposes to us this bill that these five benefits take place in July, August, September, October and November. However, since we know that in the year 2021, a total of more than four million IMI settlement notes issued, 77 % were worth more than 100 €, this means that, if this proposal is approved, the local authorities will receive the bulk of the revenue they are entitled to as IMI in the second half of the year, when, as we know, they were more or less received equivalently here, distributed for two semesters. For those who do not know, it is noted that the largest tranche occurs in June, due to payments in May, and the second largest tranche occurs in December, due to payments made in November. We also know that the tax revenue of the municipalities represents 40% of its total revenue, that the direct tax revenue is the main component of this aggregate and that, in the municipal perspective, the revenue of the IMI is worth 50 % of the total direct tax revenue, Mr President, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it is easy, very easy to realize the negative and serious impact this bill will bring to the treasury of local authorities if it is adopted, of course. In other words, it will bring serious drawbacks and treasury problems to the authorities, which are, no less, those who have been in the front line, in the line of combating pandemics, in mitigating their effects from the social, economic or health point of view. If we add to all of this the inevitable increase in the administrative and operational costs arising from the extension of the number of benefits, as well as if we add to all of this that we do not see — at least we do not see — the interest that may possibly exist in concentrating in the second half of the second half of the year the payment of higher amounts, of course we see no reason to follow this initiative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u173	Mr Alma Rivera, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we welcome the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira for the presentation of this initiative, which aims to increase the number of benefits for IMI payment. We see ourselves in the concern expressed by this initiative. in a situation of pandemics and worsening of the economic and social situation, it is important that another flexibility be allowed in several areas, from benefits to the bank to the payment of taxes, such as the IMI. As the explanatory statement of this proposal for a law points out, it is urgent to take measures to support families that mitigate the economic and financial impact resulting from the confinement measures as a result of the pandemic, including moratoriums on the deferral of bank mortgages granted in the same context. The PCP has been intervening to prolong these moratoriums. We have put forward a proposal in this regard, which should have been discussed urgently in the Commission after it had generally been adopted, but instead the Socialist Party called for a consultation with the European Banking Authority, which must extend this legislative process for more than a month. The PSD, which has generally approved this proposal, has already announced that it will impose restrictions on this measure, which may even block its scope. The extension of the banking moratoriums was presented by the CFP as an urgent measure for an urgent situation and we know that it does not solve everything. This requires substantial action, but in a framework where economic and social normality has not yet been restored, the sudden end of moratoriums without alternative solutions could mean serious problems for families and small businesses, so the CFP took the initiative and the Assembly of the Republic gave a signal. In the meantime, the Government has announced other measures that do not delete the need to move forward with the proposal of the CFP without further safeguards. What is proposed is to add to bank moratoriums the possibility of increasing the number of benefits in the payment of the IMI and there are several matters that need to be deepened, such as the possible impacts that this measure may have on the financing of the authorities or their scope, and we can ask whether this measure applies to all taxpayers, regardless of their total income and property. We can also ask whether this is a permanent or exceptional measure because of the pandemic and in this case it should take the form of a special regime and not an amendment to the IMI Code. We can also question whether this amendment to a tax code should be made by means of an amendment to the law, or whether it is not best to do so in the context of the discussion of the State budget, which is the seat itself and most usual for amendments to the tax codes. It is also important to remember that the issue of payment to benefits is relevant, but more relevant is the paid rate. The CFP has defended and presented in the Assembly of the Republic the proposal to reduce the maximum rate of IMI, which has been rejected by the PS/PSD convergence, which would effectively alleviate taxation within IMI. The CFP addresses the concerns expressed by the Regional Legislative Assembly and will therefore vote here in the same way as it voted in Madeira, without prejudice to any matters which may be in depth in the specialty. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u175	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Madeira Regional Legislative Assembly, with the general agreement of the parties represented there, submits an amendment to Article 120. the IMI Code in two dimensions. On the one hand, increasing the fractionation of current benefits of three to five benefits and, on the other hand, altering the cut-off limits for the same fractionation. ALRAM does not propose a change in the revenue of municipalities because, in fact, it is explicit in the proposal, recognises the relevant role of the authorities at this particular point in the pandemic situation. However, precisely for this reason, the proposal refers to the need to alleviate the treasury of families. In fact, this proposal was introduced in December, it is being discussed now and it would make no sense to enter into force at this time, when this is already impossible. Therefore, on the part of the CDS, the question is whether it would make sense to think of it in the context of the State budget as the first point. The conjugation of these two interests is to consider, on the one hand, the interests of the municipalities and their management because, as has already been said, they need to receive their income from IMI, and, on the other hand, to consider the interests of the citizens, who at a pandemic stage have problems of treasury, makes the CDS follow the sense of vote already expressed in the Regional Legislative Assembly of Madeira, of abstention. However, we understand that in the specialty, in addition to timing and opportunity related to the State budget, there are several issues to be discussed. From then on, listen to the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the State Secretary for Tax Affairs to measure these limit values that have been defined, as well as to the months that are determined for payment, but also to consider the impact this fractionation will have on the budgets of the authorities, in the phase-up of their planned activities, and assess whether it still makes or does not make sense to carry out this change in this way. Therefore, if the proposal were to be approved, which seems difficult to me at this stage, we would still have to work on the specialty. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u177	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal brought by the Regional Legislative Assembly of Madeira has, in essence, an essential component in relation to the importance that the IMI has in paying taxes by taxpayers. We also know, and this is revealed by the different opinions that are given to us, that this phase-out will have no impact on the accounts running at the level of the municipalities, although the alert left regarding the phase-up and the preponderance it has in the different months is also relevant. The fact that it is a revenue from the authorities and has come here at an extraordinary time, in which payment guides are already being issued, also raises questions that have to be worked on the values entered in the legislation that is presented to us, as well as changes to values, reductions of 50 % or more than those values, as well as the number of tranches in which this payment will be made. It seems to us that, in this component, this could be a blind amendment, so we think it should be worked out in detail and understood. We understand the need for their acceleration in relation to the pandemic, but we also find it very important to take into account the problem of how municipal property tax implies, or not, the preservation of property. That is, in the so many penalties that could exist by return heritage, among other measures, we think that we can also work out the increases that exist and that are under the reach of the municipalities, that can use them or not. Having said this, it seems to us a matter to be discussed and evaluated in speciality. Your fund is correct, as far as the form of application is concerned, we have doubts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u179	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nuno Sá, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We do not question the goodness and social objectives of the proposal of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, but we cannot follow them at least in the exact terms in which they are proposed. It should be noted that the current regime of IMI resulted from negotiations with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, with a view to cautioning the liquidity issues of the municipalities themselves. IMI is a municipal revenue exclusively and municipalities themselves can decide to fix the fee, so any change in this matter may have considerable impacts and create difficulties for them. Considering the values proposed for the three benefits and for the five benefits, we also believe that there is a disproportionateity of the modification of the third step, in addition to that, as already said, the increase in the cost of context for the State is not noticed, which comes from the operations necessary to carry out, in practice, this increase of steps, not even in the time when the proposal is presented. What is very important is that, with the introduction of this initiative, the Madeira Legislative Assembly calls on all of us to support companies and families as a result of the pandemic, and that is precisely what the government has done. That there is no doubt that, since the beginning of the pandemic, the Government has made every effort and taken all possible measures to overcome the serious health crisis with the central concern of combating economic difficulties and social problems. In the context of the pandemic we have faced, with strong economic and social impacts, the government has never missed the support that families and businesses needed, and it will continue to do so. In the first three months of the year of 2021, the country's spending on extraordinary social security support measures reached EUR 804 million. Measures such as simplified layoff, extraordinary support for the progressive resumption of activity, exceptional support for the family, COVID-19 disease allowance and prophylactic isolation, together with extraordinary support for workers' income, including self-employed, were and are decisive to the people and their families. In the first quarter alone, effective support for companies through the APOIAR programme reached EUR 532 million. If we add these support to business support for work costs, we have an expense for companies that reaches EUR 1182 million in three months. It is clear, therefore, that despite the difficulties and demands of what we are going through, it has been given an unhesitating and unhesitating response to people, families and businesses, as in fact it causes us the Maderian Legislative Assembly with this concern. Of course, problems are many and support is never too much in the face of the size of this crisis, but resources are finite and limited, so support measures are always decided with rationality, justice and effectiveness within the means available, with safeguard the financial balance, so as not to compromise Portugal's recovery and future development. We have already won challenges, we are responding to the present and planning for future development. in this matter, the Recovery and Resilience Plan will be a cross-sectional and structural brand of this path. Thus, with this vision of the future and with global and coordinated intervention, Portugal and Portuguese will continue to win. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u181	The Bureau no longer registers, and I therefore conclude this item on the agenda. We move on to the fifth item on the agenda, with the general debate of the Bill No 71 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — At the end of geographical blockade and discrimination in electronic sales for consumers in the Autonomous Regions. For an intervention, Mr Olavo Câmara of the Socialist Party has the floor, which will speak to us by video conference. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Insularity, islands, distance. Wood and Azores cannot be synonymous with staying behind or being on the way. When it is the Constitution to enshrine the principle of territorial continuity, it cannot be the companies to dictate that the island regions remain behind! A person who lives in Madeira or the Azores must have the same opportunities and access as a person who lives in Lisbon, in Porto or within the country, and electronic sales are no exception. It is up to us, legislators, to intervene, correct and do what is right for our people and for our regions, precisely when the market, the market is functioning, has left and continues to leave behind several regions and many of our populations. That is precisely what the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira has sought to do. And we must agree with the basic objective of this proposal, which comes from the maximum organ of our region, the maximum symbol of the autonomy and popular will of the Maderians. And it is here, in this case and in other similar ones, that the right and the liberals are barefoot. It is here that, once again, we demonstrate the importance and need for State intervention to correct, because the market does not respond and creates injustices of territorial cohesion in our country. But let no one forget: the market does not respond, not because it cannot, not because it is impossible, but because it does not want to do, because it does not compensate financially! And that we can't accept and we have to change! This is where the State has to "put the shoe" where it needs to be! This is where we, legislators, demonstrate how we can correct and respond to a need for our population. And this ALRAM proposal, although it does not solve everything that is necessary, is a first step in the way that we have to do, and we will certainly do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u183	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Neves of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u184	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: What we are dealing with at this particular time is a timely bill that is sent to us by the Legislative Assembly of Madeira. Members elected by the people of Madeira to the regional Parliament legitimately ask the Assembly of the Republic to legislate for the end of the geographical blockade that unfairly discriminates against consumers in the autonomous regions. Both from Madeira, and from the Azores, it is not possible to make and receive purchases from some brands or online sales platforms. It is unfair, because we, the Macedonian and steel consumers, are thus unable to access products and services at prices and practices in the national and European markets. We denounce this situation — both we, the Members of the Assembly of the Republic elected by the Madeira PSD, and also our colleagues elected by the Azores PSD. Having this bill, led by the PSD / Madeira, deserved—and well! — the support of the parties seated in the Parliament of Madeira, we are sure that the legitimate will of the representatives of the people of the region will be respected by our Parliament of the Republic. Another thing would be deeply regrettable. It is therefore our obligation to correct this asymmetry, ensuring the full rights of citizenship of the Portuguese in the autonomous regions. At European level, which is a useful complement, the PSD is also pushing for a solution. At the same time, the Maderian Member elected to the European Parliament has signed a document, which has already been delivered and which goes in the same direction as what is now being discussed here. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I take advantage of this intervention to make a brief review of the moment in Madeira, a region with a coalition government led by the PSD, a government that has faced the pandemic with a strategy of absolute success. In fact, we are winning the pandemic, fortunately without ever closing the economy. We have achieved, through an exemplary public health policy and a responsible collaboration by the population, to avoid deaths, to defend the health of Madeirans, to avoid a predictable situation from a social and economic point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u185	But what is the debate about? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u186	All of this has been achieved through robust financial support for families, the most disadvantaged and businesses. Our strategy is working. We also maintain our commitment to enriching the region, the Madeirans and the Port-Saintenses. And we are also ready for the moment of economic recovery, which, in fact, has already begun in Madeira. Madeira is classified, for example, as "the safest island in Europe to spend holidays" and Porto Santo comes soon, on a number of islands. This is the sign that we did a good job. The Regional Government of Madeira therefore deserves to be encouraged, supported and never harmed. That is why we, Madeirans, do not deserve to pay unfair interest to the Republic, or see the Madeira International Business Centre — which is strategic for the capture of international investment to the country — attacked by the mediocrity of extreme left, radical left and some socialist left. The Regional Government of Madeira and Madeira have demonstrated that what we do in Madeira is not only structural for the region but also for Portugal as a whole. To create, as is the case, the third largest and most competitive register of ships in Europe, the Madeira International Register of Ships, is a national pride. Portugal is a sea country, much larger in the ocean than on land. In Madeira, we know that and we work for it. We are committed to new technologies and there are already many technology companies in the region that work for the world. There are thousands of those who have taken advantage of the opportunities we have recently created, to receive thousands of nomadic workers from Madeira with a cosmopolitan spirit. We are already a world reference. In Madeira, although the present are successful, the best is always to come. I shall finish, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying the following: The Assembly of the Republic must quickly correct this injustice, which affects Madeira and the Azores, and, in the same spirit of justice, resolve or press for other matters that harm Madeira to be resolved quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u187	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u188	I'll finish. Our position, the PSD / Madeira and our government led by the PSD is always the same, it is a dialogue and exemplary institutional relationship with all the organs of the Republic. But always in the first defense of the Madeirans and the port-saintenses. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u189	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, we welcome the initiative of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. We have also been concerned about the consequences of the geographical situation of the archipelagos, with regard to electronic sales for consumers in these areas of the national territory. As the proposal points out, today the world is increasingly global and interactive. We can search, know, choose and buy an article, a good or a service anywhere at the distance of a click. However, this reality is not yet fully assured in the autonomous regions of Portugal. That is, based on the geographical location of the buyer, the article is not available or the purchase cannot be completed, which affects the Azorians and Madeirans. Overcoming this problem is indeed a relevant issue and we have nothing in principle against the objectives underlying this proposal. However, doubts remain regarding the concrete solutions proposed and the actual impacts of the measure. The proposal of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira is necessarily national in scope, covering any company operating in the national territory, without distinction, and functioning, of course, in both directions. There are, of course, new demands, which will have force of law, before all companies on the continent or autonomous regions. On the one hand, it is not indifferent that, from the point of view of operationalization, the implementation of this measure is not guaranteed, since there are transport and delivery operators who simply do not operate for the autonomous regions, and a practical problem arises. On the other hand, even certain that it would be possible to weigh and find other solutions to circumvent the problems that arise, there are other specificities to take into account, if any company was obliged to make sales to the autonomous regions or if a resident of the autonomous region could request delivery to any company that does not operate in the region. From now on, this would have impacts on regional economies, particularly likely to suffer from the potential flooding of the market, with inevitable distortions in competition that need to be guarded so as not to run the risk of annihilation of local companies. There are also the impacts to be taken into account at the level of regional finances, since there are specific tax regimes, particularly in the area of IRC (tax on income of the public), which need to be guarded so that there are no tax injustices. Finally, it is not by exposing the impact on the consumer, which will feel, more or less directly, the impact of the transactions on the price of the goods purchased. These are the concerns that motivate us to be cautious about addressing this problem, even if we are aware of the fairness of the objective underlying it. The CFP addresses the concerns expressed by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. However, there are important impacts to be taken into account. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u191	For an intervention, Mrs Lara Martinho of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: During the last few months, marked by the pandemic, online shopping has intensified! Furthermore, estimates show that 57% of consumers with Internet access in Portugal had made online purchases in 2020. But only in the Azores and Madeira, several of these shopping attempts were accompanied by the following warning: «We do not deliver to your address». That is, the fact that our postal code is in the Azores or Madeira means that we cannot receive our orders at home, even if we are available to take on possible additional costs! This is unacceptable! Azorians and Madeirans cannot continue to be discriminated against! We cannot continue to be discriminated against in access to the online market only because we live in the Azores or Madeira. The reality is that, with an increasingly global world, it is increasingly common to buy online, and we must ensure the same rights for all! However, in order to safeguard that no European is discriminated against in the electronic sales and geographical blocking target, the European Union has adopted the regulation aimed at preventing unjustified geographical blockade and other forms of discrimination based on nationality or on the place of residence. In other words, it has preserved the sale of any product or service to any European citizen, wherever it may be found. However, it did not oblige delivery, which prevents the execution of a certain transaction. In other words, the regulation requires sale, but does not require delivery of the order. Now, a sale is only effective if you can receive the order. And the regulation, and unfortunately, does not safeguard the dispatch to any part of the European territory. This is what we want to safeguard with the proposal that we put forward. That is to say, further strengthen the content of the regulation and promote harmonisation and protection of consumer rights in the context of the single European market. Ensure that Azorians and Madeirans, as well as any Portuguese, can buy on any European website online, with the certainty that the product or service will be delivered to your home. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u193	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the BE Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this proposal from the Autonomous Region of Madeira, we are faced with an important issue which, from our point of view, should not be confused with any antenna time. In fact, we are talking about something which is even more important for the so-called « outermost regions », namely the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the Autonomous Region of the Azores. First of all, we want to remember that the importance of the principle of territorial continuity, which prevents such inequalities between territories in various countries, should be maintained. And, in fact, the geographical blockade, normally known as geoblocking, is in practice a way of failing to comply with this principle of territorial continuity. Not by chance, there have been various attempts, particularly at European level, to eliminate this blockade, in order to eliminate these existing discriminations and to offer equal opportunities to all citizens, regardless of where they are. In the Portuguese case, it must be understood that the design, particularly territorial cohesion, must take account of the regions which have been left behind, more inside, but also never forgetting the autonomous regions. From this point of view, the objective of this proposal from the Autonomous Region of Madeira is to safeguard the outermost regions in access to the purchase of certain goods and services and ensuring the application of the Community law on geographical blockade, and it seems to us that this House should, in fact, focus on the subject very carefully, since discrimination cannot, nor should it be accepted, regardless of the ways in which it may be used to overcome it, that is, even if there still exist, from our point of view, some practical issues to be overcome by this measure which is being proposed here, such as the possibility of creating distortions that may occur, in particular in small local businesses or, including the repercussions on consumers themselves. Therefore, on the part of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, we follow the concerns underlying this proposal and we will, of course, work on the necessary solutions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u195	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has already been said here, the reality of online trade has been exposed to a fragility that the principle of territorial continuity has in Portugal. Indeed, territorial continuity requires that architectural reality not be distinguished from continental reality. In other words, the territory is only one and, therefore, what is applied within the territory must allow citizens living on the continent or in any of the autonomous regions to have access under identical conditions to the provision of services and also to the delivery of products. As has already been said, this may entail, eventually, additional costs to be borne by the buyer, but it cannot prevent that consumer from having access to the opportunity to purchase these products. However, we must also be aware that there is a substantial change in the conditions of trade which stems from the pandemic and the modification of procedures and there are also ways to respond to this. We know that, for example, in the PRR there are money available — so the Portuguese State creates the lines for this — that Portuguese companies can support these companies to ensure this type of response, as there are also conditions for intervention at the logistics and distribution platforms level so that all the operationalization of this reality takes place. from our point of view, this law is important and the proposal coming from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira deserves our support. But we must not stay here, we must also have a requirement with the Government to create two types of conditions: first, support for traders so that they can effectively make their products and services available throughout the national territory; second, at the level of public investment in logistics and distribution platforms, so that this operationality is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u197	For a second intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is a third intervention by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u199	Yeah, I'm sorry. It was a step aside from me.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is obviously a very relevant issue for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group because it is in fact an effective discrimination of autonomous regions with regard to the delivery of certain orders. Nevertheless, I wanted to say that this debate is, from our point of view, the beginning of a path and not its end. As Mr President-in-Office of the Council said — and very well — there is here a set of matters that still have to be resolved and the form and model with which this law reaches the Assembly of the Republic is based on what has already been mentioned, namely, the geographical blockade directive, which basically focuses its attention on the sale and not on the delivery of products. The sale is, in fact, solved, all platforms are obliged to sell to any place, but there is no obligation on delivery at any place and in any region. At the beginning of my speech I said that a path must be made and that path must be made here, in the Assembly of the Republic, on the basis of the law which came from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira in order to resolve exactly these matters that concern us. One of the basic questions that concern us — and that this law obviously does not solve, but we all understand — is for example the acquisition of any property on a platform set in the Netherlands, because this law hardly obliges that order to reach the Autonomous Region of Madeira. So we have to walk in order to understand what to do to overcome these difficulties. In fact, this is a problem which the European Parliament itself has already detected and Mrs Cláudia Monteiro, elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira, has asked the European Commission today about what countries should do to overcome this issue. The honourable Member has done very well, here is a difficulty which is not overcome, that the Regional Assembly has unfortunately failed to overcome completely and we must in some way ensure that, on the basis of this proposal, we achieve what we want, which is in fact ending the discrimination of all the orders which unfortunately do not reach Madeira and the Azores today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u201	The Bureau no longer registers, although parliamentary groups are still available in time. Therefore, we are putting an end to the agenda of our plenary meeting today. Before proceeding with the information on tomorrow's agenda, I would like to ask Secretary Ana Mesquita to provide information on the Members who followed us through videoconferencing. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that, via videoconferencing, you have been present. Members Marta Freitas and Olavo Câmara, of the PS Parliamentary Group, and Carlos Alberto Gonçalves, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-18.u203	Thank you very much, Secretary Ana Mesquita. Mrs. Members, the plenary meeting of tomorrow, Wednesday, will take place at 3 p.m., with one item on the agenda, the debate of the Interpellation to the Government No 8 / XIV / 2. the, required by the CFP, focused on defending the rights of workers. We all wish to continue in a good afternoon and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 26 minutes.]]
