ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. Let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Secretary Nelson Peralta to take account of the initiatives that have taken place in the Bureau. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u2	Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 1271 / XIV / 2 have been inserted into the Bureau. a ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1272 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1273 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1274 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 1275 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin our agenda which has as its sole point of business the Interpellation to Government No 8 / XIV / 2. the, required by the CFP, focused on defending the rights of workers. To begin the debate on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, to whom I greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The lives of workers and the Portuguese people are marked by the consequences of the epidemic in health, but also by the attempt to take advantage of the capital and those who serve it, using the virus as a pretext for exacerbating exploitation, jeopardizing labour, political and social rights. The pretext of the epidemic or of the conditions for economic recovery, there is no shortage of those who seek to impose the worsening exploitation and the backwardness of living and working conditions as an exit to the grave national situation, a path of backwardness that could only jeopardize the national future and the development of the country. It is not possible to circumvent the difficult reality faced by millions of workers today, and that is why the government has to respond. How does the government respond to a reality marked by the devaluation of work, professions, careers, low wages that, in many cases, do not allow them to leave poverty? How does the Government respond to workers affected in their lives by prolonged and unregulated hours, unjustified generalization of continuous work and shift work, increasingly incompatible with personal and family life? What responsibility does the Government assume in the face of the recreated and widespread precariousness of contracts, the extended experimental period, the plague of temporary work, the false stages and green receipts, the provision of services in cascade destroying labor ties? If the epidemic has made it evident the degradation of health and safety conditions in the workplace, the lack of housing and health conditions and the blackmail on workers with collective redundancies and low redundancies, if it continues to serve as a pretext for limiting and attempting to prevent the action and trade union organization, will the government be held by arms or will intervene in defence of workers? The responsibilities of the Government are weighed when we look at a public administration in which wages, careers, workers' rights are devalued, where precariousness is not eliminated, where workers are not hired and, above all, workers with precarious links are fired which are essential for the guarantee of services and their improvement, as is happening with nurses in the National Health Service. They weigh the responsibilities of the Government in an inspection of work without sufficient means, with inadequate guidance and null executive capacity, so often ineffective in the face of the violation of workers' rights, or in a labour justice that workers cannot access to in order to defend their rights. The government's choice to maintain the strict standards of labour law, with a Labour Code of fragility and attack on workers' rights, and to change successively, at the same time or in convergence, for worse, by PS, PSD and CDS, is responsible for the destruction of collective bargaining and the rights enshrined in it. Exploitation, injustices and inequalities that affect workers contrast with the concentration of wealth in a small handful of shareholders who appropriate themselves to the wealth created by workers, plunder colossal public resources, accumulate profits, distribute dividends, do not pay due taxes and make money out of the country. This isn't right! This can't be like that! The PS had the opportunities and opportunities to take a change of position and to defend the rights of workers. He did not want to do so, he reaffirmed the option for the interests of capital, he opted for the European Union's taxes. The PS had the opportunity to respond to the most pressing needs, but not even the possibilities opened by the Budget for 2021 want to take advantage. The PS does not do so, because it keeps giving priority to its class commitments, rather than addressing the problems of the country, the workers and the people. The PS resists, limits, does not meet the problems of workers, at the same time it is broad hands with the economic and financial groups, in line with the right quarter of the PSD, the CDS, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative. And for the future, they want more of it. They promote teleworking in conditions that mean remote exploration, apparently modern, but indeed more refined and violent. Making the house of each worker an extension of the company, questioning its privacy and health as a result of fixing, in the same place, of endless hours, pressing for the disrespect of working hours, trying to deresponsibility and transfer expenses to the workers is too much! In a perverse way, invoking a so-called « right to turn off », they want an unprecedented attack on working hours. Instead of demanding strict compliance with the timetable, fighting abuses, starting from the idea of unlimited availability, which would need to be scaled up, even to the point of seeking to formally compromise workers beyond the working time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u6	They want to go back to the old daily squares, now technologically, as is the case with the so-called digital platforms. at this time, of fascinating advances in the fields of science and technology, how do we understand unacceptable labor relations? We see the situation of agricultural workers, many of them immigrants who alert us to the return to the past in agriculture and who want to replicate in other sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u8	They speak of protection of the environment, of green jobs, but, more than protection of the environment, they want to find reasons for dismissal and unemployment, replace national production by imports, seriously harming the country. The same about recovery. Recovery cannot be the word for controlling the increase in exploitation, the accumulation of profits, from billions to the service of social inequalities and injustices, the increase in dependence and the commitment of our sovereignty. PCP does not accept and fight these options! Recovery must be synonymous with economic and social development, guarantee the future of Portugal and have as a central element the value of work and workers. The situation imposes and the future demands employment with rights, full employment; demands the increase of wages as a national emergency, the valorization of careers and professions, the increase of the national minimum wage for the €850, with a view to overcoming the unfair distribution of national income; requires the reduction of working hours for the 35 hours per week, the limitation of continuous work and shift work, the respect and compliance of hours in their different variants; requires the elimination of precariousness, the application of rights to all workers, regardless of nationality or ethnicity, equality between men and women. More: the situation imposes and the future requires the use of technological development to improve living and working conditions; it requires the repeal of the serious standards of labour law, in particular the lapse of collective bargaining and the replacement of the principle of treatment most favourable to workers; it requires an Authority for the Conditions of Work ( ACT ) with means and guidelines for intervention in the defence and application of rights and labour justice that effectively acts in the fulfilment of the rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u10	It is urgent to break with the options of the past, of regression and exploitation, and to build a fairer Portugal at work and social level with new solutions, where the right to work and work with rights have a concrete realization in our collective life. That's what's important! That is the meaning of the struggle of workers, well expressed in the ongoing struggles, on the 1st day. the May one, in the national manifesto of Porto. This is the PCP project: to value work and workers; to ensure the patriotic and left-wing alternative that Portugal needs; to affirm the values of April in the future of Portugal. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u11	In the opening phase, on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Employment is the main means of access to income and well-being for the general public, for all of us. If it were not for any other reason, this would be enough to state what must be a fundamental principle in guiding political debate on the labour market: the rights of workers and workers are and should be a fundamental principle in guiding our focus on debate and action. I therefore welcome this initiative of the Portuguese Communist Party and the opportunity to discuss a question of the greatest importance, from the point of view of decent work. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we live times of accelerated change and transformation and of great depth in our societies, in our lives and in our economies. The labour market is no exception. And the change poses significant challenges for different actors, but it poses, in particular, significant challenges for public policies, from the perspective of labour market regulation and labour relations. That is why, over the past few years, in clear contrast to the strategy that had been followed earlier, employment has been at the heart of our priorities, not only in the perspective of job creation but also in the perspective of wages, in the perspective of quality of work and in the perspective of rights, with significant advances. That is why, during the pandemic period, with all its potential for disruption, one of our top priorities has been to support employment; limit the impact of a crisis that could be brutal on employment; to safeguard income and ensure social support for families; and, where necessary, to permanently create extraordinary emergency mechanisms for businesses and workers to cross this crisis in a collective way. But let's go somewhere. There are many problems and decent work is a path that must be the collective priority as a society. In recent years, this has been our priority and there have been significant advances in the perspective of rights. Advances, of course, in the promotion of decent wages. The minimum wage has known since 2015 the longest and most significant increase period in Portugal, a phased, predictable increase of more than 30 % since 2015 and we intend to have an increase reaching 48 % by 2023. [[P.S.'s applause.]] contrary to what so many pessimistic voices predicted, this increase did not have a negative impact on employment, on the contrary, had a positive impact on the economy, on the rights of nearly 1 million workers and on the income of many families. But there have also been advances in the promotion of job quality, since then in the fight against precariousness, with the important changes adopted here in 2019. To cite just a few examples, today we have deadlines for long-term contracts in historical minimums; rules for more restrictive renewal; less reasons for contracting to end; access of temporary workers to the rights of collective bargaining, from the first working day. Advances also in promoting collective bargaining, in a framework of stability, of restored confidence, of economic growth, which led to a recovery between 2015 and 2019 at levels close to 1 million workers per year and which in the first quarter of 2020, even before the pandemic, showed signs of increased dynamism, increasing 16 % in terms of conventions and 156 % in the number of workers covered, compared to the previous quarter of 2019. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the pandemic has brought, in an absolutely unexpected way and almost one day to the other, a profound change in the context and in the social and economic perspectives and it has exposed many situations of vulnerability, with which, as a society, we cannot compact and that none of us can accept. Since March 2020, the Government's top priority and the government's area of work, solidarity and social security could only be one, unequivocally: without losing sight of our long-term path, the priorities for the future and the principles guiding us, in our political work, to limit, as soon as possible, the most serious negative impacts of the pandemic, the limitations imposed by it and the difficulties for many businesses, for many workers and for many families, in particular to direct extraordinary measures and support, in an unprecedented mobilization of resources, for groups of people most exposed and fragile. Of course, to safeguard workers' rights: the right to health, access to income and the right to employment as a primary right, which was at risk, as we all know, on a large scale, with the eruption of the pandemic crisis. That is why, in addition to so many other measures, only in the field of work and social security, we have implemented extraordinary measures that have so far covered 2 million and 915 thousand people,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... with a mobilisation of EUR 3850 million in these extraordinary measures within the framework of the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. I am referring to the simplified layoff, the support for progressive recovery, we have gone on to ensure 100% income for workers, as a result of what has been approved here in this House in the State budget for 2021, the incentives for normalization of the work and maintenance of jobs, the extraordinary support for self-employed workers, managers, informal workers, support for families. That is why this enormous effort has been made permanently in close contact and dialogue with the social partners, at fortnight meetings in the Standing Committee on Social Dialogue. That is why we continue, in this context, the path of increasing the national minimum wage, with the increase to €665. That is why we have also approved the suspension, for 24 months, of the deadlines associated with the expiry and survival of collective conventions, in order to prevent voids in coverage and the temptation to trigger new expirys, as happened in the previous crisis, in a framework of stability to overcome this harsh period. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, too, we have created exceptional schemes, particularly in terms of telework, to enable many companies and sectors to continue to operate, limiting the potential loss of employment and a paralysis of the Portuguese economy, and to preserve the right to employment. That is why we have, in an extraordinary way, strengthened the powers and means of inspection of the Working Conditions Authority, which has reached the most historic of the inspectors on duty. And for that reason we also included in the State budget for 2021 the commitment to make the means of inspection of the ACT permanent, extending its staff framework to a historic maximum. That's what we're doing here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, I would like to announce that today's office has been signed, definitively and permanently, the map of the ACT staff table for a historic number, the largest number of always, increasing, in more than 50, the number of inspectors to the Working Conditions Authority,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that has a permanent picture of 493 inspectors. We worked in the emergency, worked and worked in the structural. Therefore, we have presented and discussed with the social partners the Green Paper on the Future of Work, so that it is the basis of a decent agenda of work and that the future of work is not what a market without rules dictate and send,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u14	... but a future of decent work and quality of employment, in an inclusive market and with appropriate rules, so that we as a society can fully and properly integrate all people who choose Portugal to work, regardless of their nationality or origin, and who we need so much. The priorities taken in the Green Paper reflect this priority on a decent agenda, which implies amendments to our Labour Code, which we want to move forward here to ensure: a more effective fight against precariousness, combating illegality and abuse, and better protecting workers, in particular young people; strengthening control mechanisms in the contracting and combating illicit transfer of workers; strengthening the powers of the ACT to combat unacceptable phenomena, which all as a society must pursue, and making permanent the transitional powers that we have created during the pandemic; ensuring inclusion in the social protection system of new and old forms of work, so that no one is actually outside the system; regulating work on platforms; regulating the right to disconnection. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Without denying the difficulties of the current economic situation, many companies and many workers, as in fact happens throughout Europe, the measures implemented were decisive factors to prevent and limit the most immediate and serious impacts of the current pandemic situation. The results are very visible, for example, in the resilience of the main...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u15	Mr. Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u16	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, the results are very visible, for example, in the resilience of the main employment indicators, systematically below what all the forecasts seemed to indicate. With so many difficulties and with full awareness that these indicators also reflect the support we have managed to maintain, however, who would be able to anticipate that Portugal, one year after the beginning of the pandemic, would be one of the three countries of the European Union in which unemployment has grown less...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u17	You have to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u18	... and that we would have an unemployment rate of 0, 2 percentage points above March 2020? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u19	Mrs. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Now that a new cycle and a new horizon of hope is opened, with vaccination, it is time to accelerate this work, so that our collective future is a future of decent work and work with rights. That is the only way we can guarantee, everyone, social peace. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u21	Mrs. Members, we will now enter the stage of requests for clarification and, to request clarification from Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, Mr João Paulo Pedrosa of the Socialist Party is inscribed. You have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the Socialist Party welcomes Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa and the PCP on the subject they brought here and unfortunately recognizes that the Portuguese Communist Party is a bulwark in the defence of workers' rights in Portugal. But, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, the Socialist Party calls on the CFP to defend these rights. And it is not necessary to go after the 50 years of history, since 25 April, just now go to the context of the pandemic to see that today we have 6, 5 % unemployment, one of the lowest rates in Europe,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because we were able to pay more than EUR 2000 million, in support of employment, to more than 900 000 people, supporting 110 000 companies, because there are no jobs without companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u23	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u24	In the future, in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), we have two subjects which Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, in the rostrum, has very well characterized, which are 230 million for a decent agenda of work, to strengthen permanent employment and wages, and 130 million for the Youth Impulse, to strengthen technologies, because that is also where the work is better paid. Mr President, the question I ask you has to do with the following: this week Mr Rui Rio said he was going to intensify the opposition to the government. We know that, in the labour field, the intensification of opposition by Dr. Rui Rio is the decrease in the increase in national minimum wage, cuts in wages and the increase in precariousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In view of the fact that the RPP has two measures of almost EUR 500 million,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u25	A fortune!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u26	... precisely to strengthen permanent employment and to increase wages, through the strengthening of technologies, I would like to know whether Mr Jerónimo de Sousa accompanies the Socialist Party in these measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u27	You have the floor to answer, Mr Jerome de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u28	Mr President, Mr João Paulo, I thank you for your question. PS, defender of workers' interests... [[PSD Members' laughs.]] Well, you know, sir, the problem is that I've been here, maybe, for too long...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u29	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u30	... and I know perfectly well the position that the Socialist Party has had in some labour matters, in which it demarcates from the benches on the right, but, with the knowledge I have and the memory I exercise, I would not dare that tone. For example, in the case of long-term contracts, Mr John Paul was worth reading the debate that took place here in 1976 — see there for the years! ... — and the oaths and oaths that this was for an exceptional situation, seasonal work, and nothing else, and yet, with a long-term contract. The crack opened in the wall, by the hands of the Socialist Party! Of course, it had the support of the PSD and the CDS, but it was the responsibility of the Socialist Party! Today, we have the situation that we have, and which is known. How does the Socialist Party feel, for example, about the question of the experimental period, in which experimental time is doubled, particularly for young people who, for six months, have no vacation allowance, have no sickness allowance, have no Christmas allowance, have no right to have rights? Oh, my God! Do you think the Socialist Party's position is progress? Oh, my God! Because we believe that, in relation to this matter, in key moments, decisive, as in relation to collective bargaining, the Socialist Party is always inclined to give in not so much to PSD and CDS, but, I would say, more to class interests, to the most powerful. [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] That's why we're asking why. It is that the Socialist Party contributed decisively, for example, to the approval of the « Labour Constitution » in 1975 / 76. It's true— acknowledge yourself! And this Socialist Party, at the time, in a discussion here in plenary, in which the interests of workers and economic power were confronted and in which the Constituent Assembly gave prevalence to the most favourable treatment to the worker, clearly gave its vote in favour. Today, they deny that, they deny this right to the most favourable treatment! These are just a few examples that lead us to have this critical sense, of course, in relation to PSD and CDS, but we consider that many times it was at once: now PS, now PSD and CDS, now PS, or PSD, and I no longer say PS with PSD or PS with CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u31	The PS with the PCP! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u32	Now, what I can say is that, in key questions, the Socialist Party has often abandoned its original matrix and identified itself with this violent attack on the rights of those who work. I'm sure the conviction...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u33	Six Budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u34	Finally... you have the right to separate... but this feeling that social justice is possible, that it is possible to value work and workers, that it is possible to have a new generation with rights, of course not find solutions in options with the right. That is why we are fighting here, proposing and denouncing, with the sense that this party, taking into account the first words that I said, in addition to being the same, also has a principle that we learn here: it is that when we fight, we do not always win, but when we do not fight, we always lose. Here we are to fight for a better life for the workers, Mr. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u35	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, it was beyond the normal response time, which will then be discounted in the intervention time of the parliamentary group, as stated in the rule of this debate. Let us now turn to the requests for clarification to the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, who are "only" 15. The Minister has already informed the Bureau that she will respond to two groups of requests for clarification. The first request for clarification of this first group lies with Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, we have heard your speech, in which you have spoken of transformation. In the field of layoffs, there was a transformation, but a transformation to worse. I will list a group of companies: PCF (Felgueiras Footwear Production), Preh, Crisof, Eurest, Alfakinha Iguaria, Faurecia, Global Media, Cofina, Lauak, CP / Servirail, ISS Facility Services, Sousacamp, Spitfire, Port Wine Caves, Hutchinson, Efacec, Quietness, Super Bock, Ryanair and Visteon. All these companies have in common the fact that, in the last year, workers have been fired, many of them using collective redundancies. This is added to the uncertainty of many workers about their jobs, such as those of Coelima, StatusVoga, Galiza brewery, or Bingo. For example, the workers of Bingo do Boavista still went out on the street today to defend their jobs and demand payment of late wages. In the Refinery of the Port, Mrs. Minister, an economic and social crime is being committed, with 1500 workers working in question—because for this they also count the subcontractors and workers with precarious links working in the Refinery of the Port. These workers will lose their jobs if the refinery closes. About 8000 workers were hit by collective redundancies throughout 2020, about 7500 since March 2020. Over the past four months, we are talking about nearly 1800 workers, in more than 150 collective dismissal processes, to which we join the use of many other forms of dismissal, including hooded forms of dismissal. Lives of the bird for workers, destruction of jobs, opportunisms of the patronage—this is what we are talking about, and this is what it is urgent to stop. Today, saying goodbye is easier and cheaper. It is urgent to correct the injustices and restore the rights of compensation to workers in situations of dismissal, as it is urgent to stop this chain of dismissals. The CFP asks what response the Government has to give to these workers, who are all in the immediate vicinity of dismissal? What is the Government's response to these workers? Will you follow the CFP, in the set of proposals you have put forward to save jobs, to ensure fair redundancies and to effectively stop redundancies that have taken place? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u37	The next request for clarification lies with Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of State, the subject which the CFP brings to our debate is indeed of the greatest importance, and its current status, in many respects and in too many companies in this country outside, is still rather unhappy, particularly in the way we look at rights. The Minister, in her initial speech, said that the Government is committed to putting employment in the centre, also in the perspective of rights, but what we have found is that, in addition to the obstacles to labour law, we still have much to do in the labour legislation itself, such as in relation to collective bargaining. As far as layoffs are concerned, in our country, it is still too easy and cheap to say goodbye. Say good-bye. So it seems to us that this analysis is not yet entirely in line with what the Government would probably like to see being true. On collective bargaining, it seems to us that there are problems that have been raised, in particular, by the Left Block, several times in this Parliament, over the past few years, but practically without any answer. We remember that these amendments to the Labour Code — what is called « the burdensome standards », which have been included in the Labour Code — have been approved by the PS, PSD and CDS over the past few decades. In fact, the importance of collective bargaining is very great and, at the moment, what is established in the Labour Code allows collective conventions, for example, to expire by unilateral decision of the employers, resulting in an empty way. This institution of a faster and easier process for employers to determine the end of collective bargaining, as well as the lack of full recognition of the principle of the most favourable treatment for workers, has profoundly unbalanced labour relations, has established a blackmail dynamics in these same negotiations, has contributed to the degradation of the content of the new conventions and have limited the number of workers protected by collective bargaining, although there has been some improvement, but very tenuous, in relation to what existed before the establishment of these standards in the Labour Code. We are very aware that urgent measures are needed to revitalize collective bargaining, and this is necessarily due to these amendments.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u39	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u40	I will finish, Mr. President. The questions to the Government are very simple: why does it insist on not fully guaranteeing the most favourable treatment principle? Why does it insist on not changing the norm of the expiry of collective conventions? He has already established moratoriums and admitted that there is a problem. If there's a problem, why don't you definitely solve it? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u41	The next clarification request is the PSD. Mrs Helga Correia has the floor for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, I welcome the CFP for bringing this issue to debate. Mrs. Minister, after 8 minutes of your speech, we were strange not to make an announcement to this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u43	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u44	It announced the hiring of 50 inspectors for the ACT. Mrs. Minister, I'm just telling you to be late.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u45	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u46	in such a particular period as this, supporting companies is encouraging the economy and leveraging employment. They are companies, which create jobs and which, in turn, constitute a central element in combating poverty and social exclusion. Supporting businesses is supporting job maintenance, supporting the creation of new jobs and dynamising the labour market. Mrs Minister, ensuring workers' rights is to guarantee more and better employment and equal opportunities. To guarantee the rights of workers is to listen and dialogue and to build solutions with workers. To guarantee the rights of workers is to listen and dialogue with the social partners, to respect social dialogue and, above all, to respect social dialogue. To discuss the new forms of work, telework and the future of work is to talk about the rights of workers. Madam Minister, we all know the position of the Communist Party on social dialogue and social dialogue. We also know what has been the position of the Socialist Party in the Assembly of the Republic: a complete disrespect for the social partners and social dialogue. We want to know what the position of the Government is. Is the Government talking to the social partners about the future of work to present a bill in Parliament? Or is the Government going to allow the Socialist Party to continue to turn its back on workers and social dialogue, to make proposals without listening to the social partners?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u48	Only in dialogue with everyone, Mrs Minister, is that we find the best solutions, and the best solutions must be built with the workers. That is how we guarantee the rights of workers. Mrs Minister, respecting and defending the rights of workers is also ensuring that the contribution of workers is respected and that those workers outside our country have access to reforms, as we are here in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u49	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u50	It is important that there is a system that crosses social security information with the outside, so that our diaspora containers can receive their pensions, as we have received them. This is to defend the rights of workers. I ask you, Minister, whether the government will solve this situation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u51	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Ana Mesquita, from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, precariousness is a serious problem that destroys the lives of thousands of workers in our country and needs clear responses from the government. There are three fundamental issues that need to be resolved: changes in labour legislation, which condemns workers to precariousness by facilitating the use of green, temporary and time-consuming receipts ; changes in the inspection action by the Act ; eradication of precariousness not only in the private sector but also in the public administration, in public undertakings and in entities with State intervention. What solutions will the Government give workers affected by the lack of government measures in these three dimensions? What solutions will the workers of Eugster & Frismag, who are more than 1600 at the time of greater activity, but only about 600 are effective workers? And to the employees of the Gestapo, temporary redundancies in April 2020, of which several were hired again, in January 2021? And to the workers of Aptiv, Bosch and Preh Portugal, companies in which is gross abuse of workers with precarious links? What will be the solution to what is happening in the waters of the Atlantic Tejo, with 340 workers in the frame and 70 more temporary workers? And in the House of Music and in the Fundação de Serralves, which settle much of its operation in false green receipts? What response will the workers of the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere) and others, who do not even see their recruitment achieved through the PREVPAP (An extraordinary Regularization Program of the Precarious Links in the Public Administration ), which should have already been completed? What measures do you propose, in relation to the continued use of research scholarships to replace permanent jobs, as the Government has already announced to the museums in particular? What about the more than one hundred school psychologists who have seen their annual contract renewed or extended, but don't know what will happen next school year? What response will the workers of the school canteens hired at the beginning of the school year, fired at the end, recruited in the following school year, and so on? And to the hired teachers, every year from home to back, and subject to years and years of precariousness? What measures, Minister? What answers? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u53	Mr Pedro Morais Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor now for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Ms. Minister, having been director of the Act's Operational Support Services, know better than any of us what the task and responsibilities of the Act is. However, it is never too much to remember that the ACT has as its mission the promotion of improving working conditions by monitoring compliance with labour standards, promoting policies for the prevention of occupational risks, monitoring compliance with safety and health at work legislation. Ms. Minister, also commenting on the July 2020 data, it was disclosed that the ACT controlled 2100 companies in Portugal that were in layoff and that around 350 investigations were opened. throughout this year, there have also been several complaints and there have been many reports of monitoring of ACT and social security to companies and workers who have received support in the current pandemic. The CDS, of course, argues that the rules are to be complied with; however, we can and should question the criteria of these same inspections. Mrs Minister, with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises, often family businesses, which are experiencing serious difficulties in the face of this whole pandemic situation, is being monitored quickly and forcefully. However, with regard to issues such as those that occurred in Odemira or similar, it seems that nothing happens. Madam Minister, with regard to the work of small and medium-sized enterprises, which, as I said, need support to survive at this time, ACT and social security see the cisco that is in front of the eye, but with regard to the apparent serious violations and situations such as those that occurred with immigrant workers cannot see the barrier that is in the middle of the road. I ask that actions have been developed by ACT and social security, in the context of monitoring the conditions in which immigrant workers live, which, allegedly and allegedly, are in a situation that is sensitive to human dignity. Another question, Mrs Minister : in the last three years, have the Act or its Ministry received complaints from the internal administration or the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ) regarding possible situations that were contrary to the human dignity of workers, in the case of Odemira or similar situations?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u55	The next request for clarification will be made by Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u56	Mr President, I begin by welcoming the CFP on the subject of the debate. I have a few questions to address to the Minister, starting with the announcement that the Minister made from the 50 inspectors to the Act, because this announcement has to be linked to the recent case of Portugal with the eyes placed in Odemira after the Prime Minister mentioned, and well, that we were facing a shocking case of human rights violations. What has not been mentioned, and it is wrong, is that the action of the Government in this matter was late and that until today the Ministry of Labour and Social Security has not yet pronounced on the reality of these workers under unworthy conditions, conditions that violate human rights, which the resolution of the Council of Ministers adopted in 2019 came to legitimise. So what we would like to know is how many inspections have been carried out by the ACT inspectors since the adoption of this resolution by the Council of Ministers. This is because, Madam Minister, we are facing not only a violation of human rights but also the operation of companies created at the time, many of them organized into transnational networks. Thus, we would like to have an opportunity to understand the views of this Ministry and to understand what the Ministry has done since the legitimation we understand that happened in 2019, because once again it is proven that the depredation of nature and the way this natural park has been explored are closely linked to the exploitation of people. Next, I move on to some questions concerning other workers and which, in view of the time available, I will have to choose. Starting with the professionals involved in childhood education, I would like to ask Mrs. Minister, the following: the public response to day care is still integrated under the care of her Ministry. However, the education of the child does not start only at 3 years of age, it begins from the moment it is born. We have a recommendation from the National Council of Education that the Ministry of Labour and Social Security and the Ministry of Education dialogue with a view to giving a more consistent response to the problems of childhood, which goes through an articulation and expansion of response networks in early childhood, encouraging the response to qualified women, and also the requirement that education professionals have made in early childhood. Thus, we would like to know whether the Minister has spoken with the representative entities of the children's educators in order to make the way, which has to be done in Portugal, for the valorization of these professionals and the dignity of these careers. In relation to minors, the difficulties of setting teams of caregivers who work in the residential care of children and young people who are withdrawn from families for various reasons are known. These professionals have extremely demanding functions, receive very low wages, are exposed to high risks of stress and burnout, which causes these teams to become completely unstable and the acquired know-how is lost. Therefore, we would like to know what strategy this Ministry has to ensure the attractiveness of these careers and, above all, the ability to fix these teams, with the guarantee of the dignity of these professionals of the residential reception of children and young people. On the other hand, we cannot fail to take this opportunity to mention the interpreters of the Portuguese Gestive Language who are in a situation of high instability. We are talking about a law on career regulation which has not gone out and which should have been out for more than 20 years, and the NAP has already seen several proposals adopted in this regard, including within the framework of the State budget. We know that until 30 March, the representatives of these professionals were supposed to have been contacted to be included in a committee that would define the rules of the interpreters of the Portuguese Gesture Language, which, we know well, is essential to dignify and recognize the very important work of these professionals—I am, in fact, watching a professional working. Finally, Mrs. Minister, on informal caregivers, is about to finish the deadline of the 30 pilot projects provided for in the Staff Regulations of Informal Care. According to information available to us, 7400 people requested recognition of the informal care status. The data disclosed show that only 2700 people have seen this status recognised, so we would like to leave two questions. First, what strategy does the Minister have for these 30 pilot projects that will end at the end of this month? Secondly, since one of the aspects which has been referred to, including by your Ministry, to explain that the reduced number of tasks of the statute is related to the absence of a family relationship between the caregiver and the employee, we would like to know whether the Minister is available to review this criterion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u57	The last request for clarification of this first set belongs to Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the ENP, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by greeting the Portuguese Communist Party for having scheduled the issue of defending workers' rights for debate, because, being an ever-present subject, it gains a new dimension not only following the pandemic we are living in, where abuses have proliferated, but also in the face of what we know about the world of work, such as what happens, for example, in Odemira, on the banks of the Tagus, in the Ribatejo and elsewhere in the country. Mrs Minister of Labour, if we do the exercise of looking back, we can easily see that labour legislation has over time been the subject of profound changes, causing a worsening of the imbalance in labour relations, but always in the detriment of those who work. Moreover, everything served to weaken and deprotect the worker's position in the labour relationship and, above all, in the period of the last PSD Government and the CDS-PP, we saw an offensive against those who work, which eventually resulted in the devaluation of work and even an unprecedented attack on the fundamental rights of those who work. We refer to amendments to labour legislation relating, for example, to the concept of just cause for dismissal or changes in order to weaken and block collective bargaining; the disappearance in our legal system of the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker; and, moreover, the amendments around the rules for dismissal, which have resulted in a genuine invitation to employers to lay off, making compensation, in case of dismissal, cheaper and making the process easier. As, of course, these options have only come to stimulate layoffs, make work cheaper, make people work more and gain less and, above all, weaken even more the worker's position in the labour relationship. Today, over these years, we can conclude that all these changes have caused dramatic social situations and have not solved any of the problems before they have worsened them. The first question I would like to leave to you, Mrs Minister, is whether the Government is available to remove these amendments to the labour law of our legal system, which would certainly contribute to defending the rights of workers. Then, Mrs. Minister, the work exploitation, in particular that which has recently become media in the area of the Alentejo Coast, has involved contracting, subcontracting and service provision chains, which, seeking to distort the normal working relationship, aim to spread the track of accountability for the most varied violations of the legislation. This calls for a serious fight against this serious problem of wide precariousness, which has often also associated labour trafficking networks, taking advantage of the fragility of migrant workers who have arrived in our country. These precarious workers take lower wages than others, ignore their rights and are subject to complete deprotection. Indeed, precariousness has come to represent a recurring practice that spreads through the most diverse areas of the country, in the fields, but also in factories, among other places. thus, the worker loses across the line. Lose rights or fail even to acquire them, lose job security and lose wages. And the state pretends it doesn't see. Now, the government cannot remain indifferent to what is happening and must engage in a real fight to end the falsehood and the contractual lie in labour relations and to fight with all the firm practices that are not worthy of our day, because slavery is already going there. What I am asking you, Madam Minister, about the announcement you made here today concerning the strengthening of the Working Conditions Authority — which the Minister certainly knows better than any one of us — is whether this strengthening of means is sufficient to combat what is going on through the country in terms of abuses in labour relations and the gross violations of labour law which have generally been verified and which have worsened with the pandemic, in particular in cases such as Odemira, on the banks of the Tagus, in the Ribatejo and elsewhere in the country, where the work relationship is more similar to slavery than with today's working relationship.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u59	To respond to this set of requests for clarification, you have the floor of Ms. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, trying to answer the various questions that have asked me, quite diverse and with different dimensions, I shall begin, first of all, by answering Mrs Diana Ferreira. The honourable Member refers to the concern we all have about the number of people who have been unemployed, in particular the situation of the number of collective redundancies. Our concern, since the beginning of the pandemic, has been to create measures to protect employment, associated with the obligation to maintain and prohibit collective redundancies and other forms of termination of employment contracts, with some capacity that has had to have many people covered by these employment support measures. I'm just giving a global number. As I said recently, we have about 2 million and 900 thousand people covered by the extraordinary measures created. of these, we have about 1 million people covered by employment support measures. So there are 1 million people whose employment has been safeguarded, through the extraordinary measures we have created. In terms of the evolution of the collective redundancies we have had over these months—and of course this pandemic has had an effect on unemployment and collective redundancies—if we look at the evolution of the number of collective redundancies in April, we have had the month with the lowest number of new collective redundancies initiated since the beginning of the pandemic. We had 29 collective redundancies, which means that it represents about 79 % less collective redundancies since the beginning of the pandemic, i.e. since March and April 2020. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that any of these numbers that we have experienced over the past few months have nothing to do with the number of collective redundancies we had, for example, in the previous crisis. I can share that in the previous crisis in 2012 we had 1269 collective dismissals. So, completely away from the numbers we had in 2020 or, now, 2021 and also from the numbers we had in terms of unemployment. I am glad that we have all forgotten numbers such as 17 4 %, which we reached in a few months during the previous crisis, and which are far from the numbers we have had. But, as you know, we have been very concerned about mobilizing extraordinary resources associated, on the one hand, with the obligation to maintain the level of employment and, on the other hand, with the prohibition of collective redundancies. We have accompanied all these collective redundancies with great concern and in conjunction with social security, the DGRT ( Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations ) and the IEFP (Instituto de Employo e Educación Professional), to look here also for conversion, relocation and liaison programmes for people to find new employment contracts. With regard to the issue which Mrs. Isabel Pires put on collective bargaining, we sought, with the suspension that was approved, to ensure that this moment of crisis was not a paralysing moment that could call into question the collective bargaining, as happened, in the previous crisis, where we had a smaller number of collective conventions and people covered. Therefore, we sought that, through this suspension, for 24 months, if it prevented this use of collective bargaining, preventing them from becoming in moments of aggravation and the reduction of collective conventions. In any case, I share the most up-to-date information available that in the first quarter of 2021 there were 60 collective contracts concluded, covering 142,832 people, which means that they are near numbers in the first quarter of 2020 and a number greater than in the first quarter of 2019, which seems to demonstrate in some way that this suspension had the ability to have immediate results. Mrs. Helga Correia, I do not understand the concern you expressed about the number of inspectors, because if we look carefully...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u61	It's too late!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u62	Too late? Oh, my God! I would say, Mrs Deputies, that if we were in the previous government, it would never have happened, because then we had the least historical inspectors in the Act. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When this government started functions, we had 307 inspectors, the historic minimum of the ACT! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Well, we, now, have achieved the most historic of the ACT! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With this increase, also because of what was approved in the State Budget for 2021, we managed to have more 186 inspectors than during the PSD government, where we had 307. They are therefore more than 61 % of inspectors. That was also our great commitment, that is to strengthen the ACT, not only in terms of human resources, but also in terms of competences and powers. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that I am sorry to hear you express your great concern at extraordinary measures to support employment, because I do not remember that in the previous crisis, an extraordinary measure of support for employment has been taken! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] I think there is no memory that in a PSD government they have created extraordinary employment support measures at difficult times. But we can try to find, certainly with some difficulty. [[PSD protests.]] With regard to the concern signalled, and very well, with the social dialogue we have maintained, I would remind you, Mrs Deputies, that, since the pandemic began, we have maintained a permanent dialogue, through fifteen-year meetings with all the social partners, employers' representatives and workers' representatives, seeking to find balance between the various interests and the various parties. I would also like to say that the Green Paper on the Future of Work has been the subject of intense discussion with the social partners. During the whole month of April and the beginning of May we discussed the Green Paper with the social partners, after the various meetings we received several written contributions for discussion, and we are now incorporating these contributions so that the Green Paper already reflects this joint work. That is why we will only put it to public discussion at the end of May, to ensure that we include all the contributions of the social partners during this stage. Mrs Ana Mesquita, on the questions she raised about the availability of the Government for the revision of the Labour Code, in particular in order to strengthen some dimensions of the fight against precariousness, I must say that this is also our priority, within the agenda for decent work, in order to ensure that we strengthen the instruments we have to combat precariousness, by broadening the capacity and intervention power of the Act, and, on the other hand, with the aim of combating the abuse of temporary work and unacceptable temporary work situations, which have been dragging out for many years, also with the concern of strengthening effective mechanisms and tools for combating precariousness. I would also like to remind you that, under PREVPAP, more than 23 000 jobs have been launched in the Public Administration, and that, also in the amendments to the Labour Code, there has been concern—in fact, the most recent changes have also been in this regard—to try to reduce the maximum duration of the term contracts, reaching the most limited period of time, with a maximum of two years, as well as the concern to reduce the criteria and limits of renewal or the reasons for the termination. Mr Pedro Morais Soares, I would like to share with you the number of interventions made by the Act in the field of actions in agriculture, because I think that is where your question has been addressed. In recent years, the ACT has made 3800 visits to agricultural holdings, covering 2820 companies, and has raised 5000 co-ordination cars, covering 37 000 workers on agricultural holdings. I also use it to say that these actions are mostly carried out with the active participation and involvement of several entities, depending on the matters, from the SEF, social security and the various entities with competence in this area. Therefore, it is also in this headquarters that these subjects are treated, depending on the situations detected. I have to finish, but I will also try to answer the questions you have to answer, those of Mrs Bebiana Cunha and Mr José Luís Ferreira, the next time you speak. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took over the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u63	in a second round of questions to Mrs Minister, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister of Labour, on the situation of workers on electronic platforms, I draw your attention to the following testimony: "When you have to work 10 hours, 12 hours, or more, per day, six or seven days per week, to make the livelihood, this refutes the very idea that the scam is free to choose your own time, and the worker can only choose between surviving or not surviving. I had an accident a few months ago that caused me an injury, and I had no right to insurance, because I had already completed delivery, although I was still online and working on the platform. So I couldn't do the right treatment, because I would have to rest and lose my income. There have been times when scams brought together money to help a colleague who had an accident to pay for medical treatment and help the family during recovery. Often, scams are suspended from the platforms, with their accounts blocked, suspected of fraud or misconduct, which are often errors and errors of the systems, but these people receive no specific explanation about why the account is blocked, have no right to resort and never work again on the platform. It is for these and other reasons that these companies do not want us to be considered workers on behalf of others. They say we are independent and autonomous to mask our exploitation and deprive us of what we are entitled to. It is scientific progress, once again in contradiction with social progress, a characteristic feature of the capitalist mode of production and class societies. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Minister of Labour, what you just heard is part of an intervention by one of my comrades, a student and swindler of the electronic platforms, speaking at the XII Congress of the Portuguese Communist Youth this week. [[PCP applause.]] What you just heard is the reality of thousands and thousands of workers in this country, of TVDE drivers (individual and paid transport of passengers on uncharacterized vehicles), delivery scams, treated as if they were the cheapest piece of a car or a bike or bike. This is your modernity, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government? Is this the future that you want to frame your green books, directives and summits? Or are they going to assume once and for all that it is necessary to eradicate the scourge of precariousness, of 'algorithmized' monitoring, of chance of work, of digitized exploitation? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u65	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Soeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Minister, the Socialist Party and the minority Government of the Socialist Party have a taboo in relation to labour laws. The Socialist Party considers it normal to proclaim that it wants to build parliamentary support on the left without moving into any structural framework of labour law, labour regulation, the labour system, the relationship of forces between workers and employers. Do not touch the labour system and the structural aspects of work and find only convergences with the right seems to be what has happened with this government, either in defending the legacy of the troika and the amendments that the PSD and the CDS have made to labour legislation, that the Socialist Party has understood that they are untouchable, either in defending the extension of the experimental period, that the Socialist Party, whether the PSD defends and that the left has considered unconstitutional, calling for supervision to the Constitutional Court, or now in the debate on telework, in which there seems to be an approximation between PS and PSD, so that there are no mandatory rules in the law and mandatory rules to oblige employers, employers to pay for the increase in expenditure or respect of working time. This taboo of the Socialist Party is a fundamental problem in the structural responses to the country. It is a fundamental problem because it is a blockade created by the Socialist Party regarding the political solutions that the country needs. For our part, we will not abdicate from this debate, whether it is about the matters we have already been discussing and which have already come back — for example, the unilateral expiry of collective bargaining, the most favourable treatment principle, redundancies, which have been cut to less than half, the term contracts or the regulation of temporary work, the dismissal laws, which the Socialist Party itself rejected during the legislature in which the PSD and the CDS had an absolute majority and which is now maintaining the law — that is also in the debate we are currently doing. It is known that, whether in Odemira, whether in Ribatejo, or somewhat throughout the country where there is intensive agricultural production, exploitation, labour abuse, precariousness, forced labour and slave labor have been a constant. And this blatant form of exploitation and abuse of labour rights and human rights is fuelled by a cascade of subcontractions, in which agricultural holdings resort to employers, temporary workers, service providers often without any respect for workers' rights. In 2016, we created a law precisely to answer this: Article 551. the Labour Code establishes a solidarity responsibility of the entire contract chain. However, the information we have, whether it be from prosecutors of the Republic, is from inspectors of the Labour Conditions Authority that this article has never been used. If the Minister has different information, tell us, because that is what they tell us! On the other hand, in the light of the recent guidelines of the Act, which refer to the existence of a subjective fault on the part of the owner of the agricultural holding, so that he can be jointly held accountable—that is, the idea that, knowing or not knowing what is happening there, is his responsibility because the owner of agricultural production benefits from the exploitation of those workers, even if the employment relationship is not with him or her—that objective of the law is not being met at this time. The Left Block allocated a legislative debate on 26 May to Parliament to amend that law and to clarify that there must be a direct responsibility for the whole chain: the owner of the farm, the under-contracted company, the employer who provides the workforce to the subcontracted company. At the same time, everyone must be held accountable not only for the payment of fines, but for the illegal ones, for the violation of the law, for the exploitation of workers, for forced labour and for the violation of human rights. I would like to ask you if you are available for this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u68	There is also another issue, which is the subject of a recent debate, in addition to telework, and which concerns the question of platforms. In several countries, the courts have come to be right to the workers of the platforms and to say that they are workers on behalf of others and that they must have a work contract with the platforms, because they are not intermediaries between entrepreneurs and customers; the platforms are the employers, they are the employer of the scams or TVDE drivers. In fact, these courts have been retraining working relationships that are hidden as independent work or by individual entrepreneurs, saying « these workers are entitled to a contract. Do not keep on seeking. ” Portugal is, from the point of view of regulating this matter, a very bad example worldwide. I have already insisted on this, and I think we have a single legislation all over the world, a legislation that has been made to prevent, prohibit a direct contract between the worker and the platform and that recognizes the possibility of legal subordination, i.e. a contract of work, but always with an intermediary and never with the platform. There is currently a European directive being discussed, prepared, and there is an intense and feverish lobby of platforms, large multinational platforms, with the European Commission and the various European governments, and certainly also with the Portuguese Government. The objective of this lobby is to defend the position according to which the employees' salary, i.e. the recognition of the work contracts with the platforms, is incompatible with the business model of the platforms. In Europe, two different and antagonistic ways are being discussed. One solution is that by which this platform lobby moves its interests. It is a solution that the right, throughout Europe, has been defending: to accommodate the demands of multinationals, placing the workers of the platforms in a kind of third status— nor are they workers on behalf of other independent or equal workers. They do not have a working bond, but they may have more social protection than they currently have by independent workers, i.e. basically conferring on them some rights and social protection, but always without requiring recognition of the bond, i.e. always subtracting the responsibility of the platforms to assume a contract of work with these workers. Another solution is that of the courts, particularly in Spain and England, a different, contradictory, antagonistic solution to this and also very different from the Socialist Party Government in the previous legislation. It is a simple solution: they are workers on behalf of others, they have to have a contract of work. There is no third status, there is no equivalent status; there is a contract of work, there is recognition of the bond and legal subordination. I would like to ask you, Minister, what is your position and that of the Portuguese Government on this. In the few seconds that I have left I would like to ask you another question. The Minister here made the announcement that there would be 493 ACT inspectors. The latest data we obtained indicate that in ACT there were 79 trainee inspectors, therefore without autonomy for inspection processes, 28 inspectors affected by the Service Directorate, three inspectors in support of the ACT Directorate and 37 inspectors at home to complete internship reports, which means that at that time, of the 424 inspectors only 277 were effectively on the ground. These are given two months ago, I guess. I ask you, Minister : of the 493 inspectors you have announced, how many are currently on the ground? Is that 277? It makes a lot of difference! We needed 500 inspectors on the ground, but we currently have about half.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u69	That's where we agreed!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u70	Therefore, it is necessary to be careful with the difference between the ads made here and the inspection capacity of ACT on the ground, because this is the capacity that makes the difference against labour abuse. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u71	In order to make requests for clarification, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, young people are the most recruited for temporary work and outsourcing under all forms of precariousness. Although they are mostly qualified, even with higher education, most of the time they do not get to the picture, they cannot look at life in the medium and long term and cannot build a career, which causes obvious consequences: they cannot leave their parents' home, have autonomy, have children. Even working, they continue to depend on parents, because wage policy is a misery, the minimum wage is shameful. Young people are the most sought after interns who do not give employment contracts, nor stability, and who serve to fill permanent jobs when trainees are placed to perform permanent tasks. Precautionary is a structural problem in our country, as it is structural in the lives of millions of Portuguese people. In view of this, what does the government do? Introduce amendments to the Labour Code which duplicate the experimental period for six months. The Government and the PSD generalise contracts of very short duration; the Government and the PSD and others sell the stability of young people by precarious rates. The government, if it wished, could have prevented young workers from being used to replace workers with decades of home because it goes cheaper because they have less rights. And saying goodbye goes so cheap, Mrs. Minister! We have seen how easy it was, thanks to the experimental periods, thanks to short-term contracts, thanks to temporary work and internships, to rid themselves of thousands of workers, of so many young people! It was a complete use! We look at TelePerformance, which makes its business sector precarious: EUR 324 million in profits, distributed EUR 140 million in dividends and, yet, for workers, irregular schedules, telework costs, layoffs... How can this be done in our country with the lives of people? What is the Government's logic in this matter? Is it logical to embarrass the labor force and condemn the new generations to precariousness or is it to do what is right and to be up to their responsibilities? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u73	In order to make requests for clarification, Mrs Carla Barros of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must begin this second round of PSD questions by raising the coherence and border with which Mr Jerónimo de Sousa of the CFP has called the PS to bear responsibility for the rights of workers in this debate. in this sense — and taking advantage of the fact that the PS is still in this Chamber and has not fled — we will question the government as the boss. We have already questioned him as a political decision-maker with interference in the field of work in the private sector and now it is necessary to question him as the employer and manager of public services. And we need to see whether the government, as a boss, is an example for the companies that demand so much. It is necessary to understand whether whenever the government requires businesses to be able to comply within their own home. in this sense, Mrs Minister, let us speak of a matter in which you have political responsibility in this government, responsibility both in the private sector and in the public: the plan to combat precariousness. And it is precisely with these numbers that I will have to dismantle the idea that the Minister used throughout this debate, saying that in PSD time the crisis was worse,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u75	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u76	...that the answers were worse, that the unemployment rate was worse, that the precaution numbers were worse...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u77	And it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u78	But it's not true, Mrs. Minister. It is not true, and the official data on public employment summaries—and that is what we are going to talk about, of the government as the boss—refers that this Socialist Party Government, as well as the previous one, as it increases the recruitment of civil servants also increases the percentage of contracts in the long term. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u79	The Government of the Socialist Party cannot contract without increasing the number of precariouss in the State. [[PSD applause.]] Today, we have 13 % of public employees hired in the long term, with precarious links. And we're not just based on these precaution numbers. If we are based on public procurement data, we see that there is another very important data on precariousness. It is noted that in 2020 the Government increased the hiring of temporary workers by 51 %. Now a government which criticizes companies so much for resorting to temporary work and temporary work enterprises is the same as in 2020, which increases the use of these companies by 51 %! [[PSD applause.]] Mr Minister, besides that, who does the government have to serve as the manager of public services? It has to serve citizens and businesses. And when we look at what has happened, in the last four months, to satisfaction, to complaints and to the increase in complaints from citizens and businesses, we see that they have increased 40%. You've increased 40%, Minister! The Portuguese are not satisfied with the way the Government manages public services! [[PSD applause.]] In view of this, Madam Minister, I have to ask you the following: then, the Socialist Party Government is ruling for whom? If it does not rule for workers, if it does not govern for companies, if it does not govern for citizens, then it is ruling for whom, Mr. Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u80	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has the floor to make requests for clarification. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Minister, I would like to ask you about the work arrangements for shifts and night work. Every day, workers are increasingly working on these schemes, which are extremely worn out and heavy. In just over ten years, this number more than doubled, reaching almost one million workers working in these schemes, with unregulated times and a very high rate of weariness. in this sense, there is a particular need to look at the situation of these workers who lose their lives in this work regime: lose their lives for a deep physical and emotional wear and lose their family life, because they are parents and mothers who cannot accompany their children. And, above all, this situation also harms children, who cannot live with their parents during periods of rest and leisure to which they are entitled. These workers lose their health, Minister! They lose their health, of course, with sleep disturbances, with a tiredness that accumulates from day to day. The workers tell us that they feel burning, like burning it inside, which then results in this wear caused by overload, a deep emotional wear. They also lose their social life. They are workers who are excluded, absolutely excluded from active participation in social life. For all this and much more, Mrs Minister, it is important that, in relation to night and shift work, an exception should be made — an exception in law and practice. These workers must be compensated, and this is the idea that the CFP has brought here. The path is that of the exceptionality and compensation of these workers for the increased effort to which they are subject. We cannot continue to leave behind these workers subject to pesosity and wear due to shiftwork and nightwork. Fair compensation is the way. Therefore, Mrs Minister, I ask you whether you are prepared to follow the proposals that the CFP has brought to this Compensation House for these workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u82	In order to make requests for clarification, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying hello to the PCP bench for the interpellation it brings here, but I think it is right to make a historic retreat. It is that if, in fact, there were advances in the replacement of wages and workers' rights, these advances were made with the Socialist Party, with the parliamentary left and, in particular, with the Portuguese Communist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This does not rule out, sirs. Members, who, if these advances were significant after a historic crisis in the country, the truth is that after this historical crisis, which allowed us to recognize even more a set of weaknesses in the world of work, the Socialist Party's bench can only present itself to this debate recognizing these weaknesses and saying that one thing was to respond quickly to the pandemic... And responding to the pandemic meant responding not only to the health part, but in particular to guarantee, and even to ensure that employment remained for our workers, and therefore layoff was so important, and even to ensure that unemployment was not the recipe that right offered us in the other crisis. So we have reached 17, 5 % unemployment and today we have 6, 8 % unemployment. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u84	This represents a significant effort. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is clear that there are matters of labour legislation that require review and that we work together, in social consultation and in this Parliament, to improve and confer rights and dignity on workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is the commitment I want to leave in this debate by the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u85	Mrs Carla Barros and Mrs Helga Correia, I find it extraordinary that they say that the PS or the government have escaped this crisis. We don't run! What the honourable Members did was actually run away from reality. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u86	Or do you think that it is a minimum achievement of 60 % of the number of inspectors in the ACT?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u87	No one spoke in numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, you have been sitting on this bench applauding a 20% cut in the number of ACT inspectors! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, they want to run away from reality! And today they cry for workers' wages when they applauded cuts in workers' wages? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] After an agreement in the social agreement on the increase of the minimum wage, the Members of Parliament in this House stood up to vote against the increase in the minimum wage! Ladies and gentlemen, running away from reality doesn't solve any problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is a problem that needs to be solved, Mrs Minister: that of the poverty stock exchanges that still persist. It is not worth just crying for what is not done, it is necessary to look forward to knowing what the answers are. [[All right!]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carla Barros.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u89	That is why I ask you, Minister, what answers we have to break the cycles of poverty, to have a better job and also to have a social employment market which is so necessary in Portuguese society right now. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u90	For the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, tomorrow, the public administration workers will be struggling for the overall increase in wages. There are workers with low wages who have 20 or 30 years of work and who take up the national minimum wage. This is a necessary and essential struggle to combat the poverty that fats among the workers of our country, for the dignity of careers and for the consideration of all time of service for the purposes of progression and promotion, for the repeal of SIADAP (Integrated System of Management and Evaluation of Performance in Public Administration ), an instrument that aims only to prevent career progression by correcting the single pay table. By political choice, the Government insists not to respond to these demands. It has not had the willingness to negotiate with the unions, despite the holding of a meeting on SIADAP at which the Government has not submitted any proposals, which is regrettable. One of the lessons that the pandemic has brought us was that of the importance of public services, work and workers. There is public recognition, but this recognition needs to be translated into valuing workers and strengthening their rights. Workers demand answers. And the question we have left is this: what does the government have to say to these workers? There are no workers in health, education, social security, culture, justice, security forces and services and precarious situations persist. There are workers hired in the SNS, within the scope of the COVID, who can be fired, which is unacceptable when they are needed to face the pandemic and to recover the delays, so the answer must be their link and not their dismissal. I also speak of the 200 workers hired by temporary workers to perform social security functions which must also be linked. The health and penosity allowance must incorporate the risk component and be extended to all public administration workers who work under conditions of insanity, penosity and risk. The extraordinary risk allowance shall be allocated to all employees of the essential services. The question that we have left you, Minister, is the following: what answers does the Government have to give to these problems that are identified? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u92	In reply, Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer not only the questions you have asked me in this round but also the questions of two Members. Members whom I have not answered before. I begin by answering Mrs Bebiana Cunha, who asked me questions about Odemira, in particular about the intervention of the Act. I am sharing the data I have of the results of the interventions that were made: in 2021, ACT carried out 133 visits to workplaces in farms in Odemira, covering 103 companies, where it identified 197 infringements for counter-ordering. These actions covered 4700 workers. This is the result of ACT interventions in Odemira under agricultural holdings in 2021. I also wanted to give some information about informal caregivers, because it raised the issue, although this is not the subject of this debate. In fact, pilot projects end at the end of this month and we have formally asked the Monitoring Committee, which was created with independent entities, to make an evaluation of these pilot projects. It was provided for in the law that this evaluation should be made within 30 days and we have already asked this committee to do so, and we have certainly assumed and transmitted our option as a government to extend pilot projects to the whole country badly to complete this evaluation phase, with monitoring, regulating what is necessary to regulate this enlargement, introducing the necessary changes in accordance with the assessment of what needs to be modified and improved. Mr José Luís Ferreira identified some concerns, particularly with the hiring chains, and I could no longer agree, in addition to my professional course. I was part of a working group to combat undeclared work and identify intervention methodologies, for which we identified several procedures that were finally incorporated into the law through the amendment made in 2016. It could therefore not be more in agreement to deepen and improve these mechanisms to ensure that we prevent the illegal surrender of workers, which happens in many of these situations. There are truly worrying situations, as we know, and we must improve the legal mechanisms to prevent them from happening. This is an example, as we all know, of the phenomenon of companies that appear and disappear, and then workers who are completely unprotected, without a way of pursuing what must be a phenomenon which, as a society, none of us should accept. in this sense, I am fully committed to finding the best ways to strengthen mechanisms and instruments so that this does not happen, namely by preventing mechanisms for the use of temporary workers that are not regulated, with their own mechanisms to prevent many of these situations which, unfortunately, as we often know, constitute illegal concessions, illegal employment, which is unacceptable and that we must pursue and not accept. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Bruno Dias, with regard to the signalled concern about the need to find mechanisms to respond to this worldwide phenomenon, the phenomenon of digital platforms, I also express our full commitment to regulate them, with the concern of ensuring that workers are within the system and that they are not out of the way, as was evident during the pandemic. We had to create extraordinary mechanisms to respond to a number of situations of people who were completely outside the system, of atypical situations, that were unprotected and that somehow we had to frame in an extraordinary way, which cannot happen, because they have to be part of the system in a structural way. In an attempt to respond to Mr Moura Soeiro, linking the two questions on digital platforms, the intention is to create a presumption of 'working' so that these workers have employment contracts, like any other worker, recognizing that there are situations in which they are the very person who does not want to have a job contract because they accumulate with another type of situation. But we want to create a presumption of 'working' so that all workers who are subject to various labour contract rules can be framed as any worker, like, indeed, what is being done in many of the European discussions. Mr Soeiro, I also endorse the concern he has shown in order to make the necessary changes to have an agenda for decent work. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] In fact, in my speech, I have identified the priority areas to ensure this agenda for decent work, either in combating the abuse of temporary work and in ensuring the best framework of this type of provision; either in regulating new forms of work associated with the transformations of work and the digital economy, strengthening the rights of those who work through digital platforms; either through regulation of new forms of work; either through ensuring the effectiveness of the right to disconnection; either through strengthening the powers and competences of the Authority for the Conditions of Work, to be more effective in its intervention; and also in strengthening collective labour relations, in particular through extending the coverage of collective bargaining to workers who today are out of the picture or through incentives and creating conditions of access to public support, conditional on the existence of collective bargaining, to encourage and dynamize. On the other hand, I also endorse the concern at improving mechanisms for monitoring and strengthening supervision within the subcontracting chains. We are available to discuss and bring to the limit what has somehow been attempted with the 2016 amendment, in particular the amendment of Article 551. o. And I am glad to say that paragraph 4 of this article — I think that is what the honourable Member was referring to — has been used several times by ACT inspectors. I admit that it has not been brought to the limit to which it may be taken, and I think that this should be the discussion to be done, seeking to find effective mechanisms to ensure that there is accountability of the contract chain and that we prevent phenomena such as those we have witnessed, in particular the illegal release of workers who, after that, generate outrageous working conditions that cannot be accepted by any of us. Mrs Alma Rivera, on the issue of precariousness, I reiterate what she said about our commitment and our willingness to strengthen the mechanisms for combating precariousness. A study on call centers is being completed, which was also one of the commitments we had so that we could draw some conclusions there.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u94	You have to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u95	Mr. President, I will finish. Mrs Carla Barros, when I heard you think you lived in an alternative world while the PSD was in government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u96	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u97	If there was a time when there was no hiring of public servants—on the contrary, there was a distribution of public servants! — was in the previous government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u98	Mrs. Minister, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u99	Finally, Mr President, telling Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes that, with this concern, we have made a great deal of investment in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, in the size of qualifications, in the agenda for decent work and in launching a national employment market programme, in addition to the Government programme, to respond to this essential dimension. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u100	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The defence of workers' rights also requires compliance with the constitutional right of "health, safety and health services" and the last year clearly demonstrates this need and dimension. If, at present, it is imperative to ensure that workers can work at their workplaces in conditions of compliance with health standards, it is also essential to ensure that other measures to prevent different diseases, occupational diseases and accidents at work are met by employers, not only today and in the future. In 2020 there were 321 serious accidents, 46 of which in the first four months of the year, and 121 fatal accidents, 28 of which in the first four months of the year. And we are not talking here about the other occupational accidents and occupational diseases acquired in the performance of the duties. In 2018 ( latest statistical data available), there are more than 195 000 accidents at work in our country. It is the responsibility of employers to take measures that guarantee work in health, hygiene and safety conditions and is the responsibility of the State, in particular through the Act, to effectively monitor its compliance and its punitive action, in the event of non-compliance, and not merely a pedagogical action. This is always a concern of the CFP, since the CFP has recently delivered initiatives that not only strengthen the rights of the injured workers and their families, but also contribute to the promotion of workers' participation in safety and health at work. It is that the right to participate in this dimension is one of the most important achievements with regard to the guarantee and affirmation of the principle of human dignity at work. We do not stop work accidents, occupational diseases and safety and health issues at work of existing working conditions, i.e. the precariousness of the working rhythms imposed and their intensification or deregulation of working hours, and the CFP has intervened and fought to restore rights and guarantee better working conditions on all these matters. The value of work and workers is also inseparable from the value of the contribution career and from decent conditions of access to reform, including eliminating the sustainability factor, resting the age of reform in the age of 65 years, ensuring access to reform without any penalty to those who are 40 years of discount, as well as ensuring fair conditions for access to reform, considering the specific characteristics of each career, of each profession. from here we reaffirm our commitment to this path, by valuing work and workers in all its dimensions, and in raising their working and living conditions. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u102	For an intervention, IL has the floor Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this call from the CFP, on the defence of workers'rights, there is a difficulty, which is the following: what is the model of labour legislation that the CFP defends? It is only yesterday that I heard here in plenary that the CFP commends the Netherlands and the Dutch trade unions. And, any day, I would not be afraid to see the CFP defending the labour legislation of the Nordic countries, where the State does not even set a minimum wage and leaves it for trade unions and employers to agree freely. in these countries, with more liberal policies, works well, but less time. After almost six years of management, Portugal continues to be from the countries where more hours work per week, almost 40 hours on average, and in the Netherlands, for example, this average is 30 hours per week. In Portugal, workers are suffocated by taxes and a tax effort which is the highest in Europe and which ultimately discourages work. Portugal has taxes from a rich country, but income from a poor country. This economic model has repeatedly failed to raise workers' wages. In terms of purchasing power, Portugal has a gross median wage which is the second lowest in Europe. Portugal is the second largest country in Europe. It's on the league of the latter and, even in that league, at risk of being discouraged.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u104	Go away, is the solution...? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u105	For a poor country, this model of high taxes and high public spending, successive PS governments and also the PSD, results in what? It turns out that Portuguese workers today have less purchasing power than they were 20 years ago compared with the European Union average. The facts are these and your rhetoric will not change them: your economic and labor model has kept Portuguese in poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u106	It goes from there, it's worth the day, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u107	Even if they have good intentions, it's not them that the Portuguese live. The Portuguese live in wages that can draw closer to those who take the workers from the most liberal countries. And that's it, sirs. Members, the alternative: to adopt liberal policies implemented in other countries and to start by drastically lowering labour taxes, with only one or two rates of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) ; to give more freedom to workers' organisations to negotiate directly with businesses on a voluntary basis, without having the state in the middle; to make more transparent the whole relationship of workers with the State, with the tax authority, with social security, with all taxes and all the constant contributions of the salary receipt, for each one to know what pays and to those who pay; and from now on, to refuse immediately the obligation of telework that this government wants to impose, in an arbitrary and abusive way. Telework is a matter of agreement, free and voluntary, between workers and businesses — the final point! It is up to this Parliament to defend the rights of workers and to ensure that people are not, under any circumstances, forced to stay at home to work, without prejudice to their physical and mental well-being. Defending the rights of workers is not to treat them as defenseless victims, always in need of protection of the state or the law. To value workers is to believe in their abilities and provide them with the possibilities to work where and how best they understand, to have the fruit of this work and finally to be able to aspire to rise in life to work in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u108	For an intervention, Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura spoke by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the eve of a general strike of public service, in which the revocation of SIADAP, the defence of professions and the valorization of careers is claimed, we cannot fail to congratulate the unions and their struggles because they are one of the fundamental pillars of our democracy. As a parliamentary group, we accompany some of the demands, because, as we have stated, it is our concern to value careers and guarantee a robust public administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u111	We must therefore remember, Mrs Carla Barros, the way of the last six years: the growth in 67 210 of the jobs since 2015 — the statistics you spoke about recently —...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u112	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u113	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u114	... the year in which the journey has begun to counter the impoverishment of the Public Administration carried out by your Government, the Government of the Rabbit Pass ;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the reduction of the weekly working time for 35 hours, measured by some, such as the former President of Cavaco Silva, as one of the biggest political mistakes, but for us, for the PS, as one of the most fair measures; the defrosting of careers, which bring back equity in treatment; the increase of the minimum wage, which had repercussions on the update on the remuneration base, in 2020, of the public function table, thus initiating the necessary decompression of that same table; the end of wage cuts; the first wage update, which takes place in 2020, after 10 years without any update; the guarantee, with the State budget for 2020, of annual wage updates, where there is inflation, as a rule that constant wage devaluations are reversed. I am also referring to: the end of the requalification scheme; the elimination of restrictions on procurement for public administration; and the fair replacement of the accumulation of permanent disability allowance with its salary. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have strengthened the importance of trade unions in the negotiation of SIADAP. The government started negotiations on 10 May — today is 19 — and the revision of this system does not take place in nine days. And we can't help but remember that everyone's priorities in the last 15 months have been the lives of the Portuguese. I therefore conclude by stressing the work carried out by the Socialist Party over the past six years and by stating that all these measures make a difference. We did more and we did better. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u115	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u116	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today we are discussing an issue which is of vital importance to the PSD Parliamentary Group, which is the strengthening of workers'rights. Not in the classical and communist perspective of the confrontation between those who are in favour of the workers and those who are against them, between those who are in favour of rights and those who deny them, in fact, not in the perspective of those who oppose employers. This is the tension that the CFP insists on promoting in Portuguese society, which the PSD does not profile and, indeed, fights.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u117	All right! [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u118	We're in May.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u119	May is the month of the worker!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u120	May is about that time of year that the Communist Party chooses to show the country that defends the workers...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u121	We defend every day!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u122	... and which criticizes the government, wanting to make the Portuguese forget that in October—at another stage of the year—, viability and complicity of policies which, in May, comes to criticise. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, making this discussion in the classic way without speaking in economic growth, without speaking in job creation and in support of businesses, is an incomplete discussion, which only serves to fulfill the timetable. We all know that without strong and competitive companies there is no employment and that we can only ambition more and better rights if we have reasonable levels of employment and job creation. Moreover, the social state — the social state that we all defend and aspire to and support the most vulnerable — is not fulfilled without strong and competitive companies, as we can only redistribute the wealth that companies produce. But this classic vision has been precisely the one that has ruled us in recent years, because the Socialist Party has been rescued by it, not to rule the country, but to survive politically.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u123	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u124	And he chose to condemn the PCP as one of his privileged coalition partners, who does not value the social dialogue... [[PSD applause.]] ...and the commitment between government and representatives of workers and employers, which has achieved so much consistent progress and progress. [[Protests of PCP Members.]] This is an example of it — it is a bad example — it is the recent parliamentary manoeuvre for which the Socialist Party has also contributed, and much, by promoting significant changes to telework, on the margins of social dialogue and collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u126	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government fails the country, because it has taken over from its coalition partners, who only serve to maintain power and who dictate the postponement of the important reforms that the country needed, reforms that would significantly impact on investment, economic growth and job creation and therefore on workers. This is publicly recognized by distinguished socialists.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u127	Say one!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u128	The government has no ambition and failed. The government just celebrated the results of the economic growth ramp in which the PSD had launched the country since 2013 — no, it is not true that it was in 2015 that employment began to grow, Mrs. Member, it was in 2013! [[PSD applause.]] And I also remind you that changes to labour law in 2012 have favored, and much, the country's economic recovery and job creation,... [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] ... work reform that you are afraid not to reverse, despite the constant pressure, even today, of your coalition partners. I would also like to tell the Socialist Party, in particular Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, that they continue to escape the responsibilities they had in the last crisis of 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u129	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u130	I wanted to ask Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes where she was in 2010 when the Socialist Party and Eng. José Socrates cut salaries in public service and frozen pensions. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Deputy was sitting on the Socialist Party bench, applauding! [[PSD applause.]] The government fails the country because it has as partners anti-European parties that, in an action that we can only call anti-patriot, promote a counter-attack on the side of the European Social Summit in Porto, rejecting the same, the object of which is of the greatest interest of the country and of all Portuguese workers, and whose objectives the government is responsible for fulfilling. The government fails because it has not modernised the State so that the administrative machine can respond quickly and effectively to citizens and businesses, especially in pandemic times, Mr. Minister, in which many companies where the support of the Ministry did not arrive in good time and waited long to avoid the destruction of jobs. And, speaking of the destruction of jobs, only in the first quarter of this year, according to data from the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), 49 000 jobs were destroyed. This is the same government which is quick to impose the obligation of telework on companies but does not set an example in the Public Administration ; the same government which has urged the fight against precariousness and which, in the last quarter, has increased it by 13 %, having resorted to temporary work by more than 51 %; the same government which undertakes to strengthen the Act but which, after all, only when it comes to Parliament is that it signs the door to increase the staff framework. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I am sorry to remind you that this is the government that you have strongly supported, Budget after Budget, for six years to come! [[PSD applause.]] I wanted to conclude by saying that we can never, in this debate, despise this virtuous partnership between workers, entrepreneurs and government, whose understanding is the foundation of the world of work and the economic sustainability of our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u131	Mrs Deputy, you have requests for clarification from Mr Luís Soares. I don't ask you how you want to answer, because it'll be once... [[Laughing.]] Mr. Luís Soares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are so close and more distant here. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u133	And we are becoming more and more distant, Mrs Deputies, because, over the past six years, the PSD has not yet been able to catalyse what it has left us, what it has left us, and what it is the way we have found our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u134	Madam Member, May is the month of the devil, the devil who did not come, but who announced why the Socialist Party decided to break up with austerity policies, with the cut in wages that you had inflicted on the workers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u135	And today Mrs Deputy tells us about a trilogy of companies, workers and the state. It was 90 % of your intervention without a single word for workers, Mrs Deputie. Not one word for the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u136	Not one? Oh, my God! It's written!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u137	That is why, Mrs Deputy, is that, having arrived here, with all the difficulties we have experienced, including the pandemic, the country looks at the Socialist Party as the only alternative to advance, looks to the left as the only alternative in defending workers' rights. There is a very important way forward and we will continue to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u138	In reply, Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u139	Mr President, Mr President, very quickly, just to say that it is regrettable that the Socialist Party, at the end of these years all, is not yet able to take on the serious responsibilities it had in the country and in the 2011 crisis. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] I understand it's a past that you don't want to remember, but I bring here news that says: « The Socrates government has cut pensions, increased retirement age ». That's it! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] And you just didn't have any more time! You had no more time to do what the country needed, you had to come the PSD to rule the country under a memorandum that was negotiated and signed by you. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u140	The PSD is the one who gave his hand to Socrates! The PEC 1, the PEC 2, the PEC 3... the PSD was the Socrates mule!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u141	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I thank the CFP for bringing to plenary the appeal to the Government on the protection of workers' rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u143	It's okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u144	Mrs. Members, the CDS, as a humanist, personalist party, of Christian-Democrat matrix, has always had in its genesis the dignity of the human person, particularly with regard to work. Since 1974, the year of our foundation, is in our statement of principles, and I quote: "We defend personalist humanism because it is, more than any other ideology, the best way through which one seeks to combat the exploitation and oppression of man by man". In the same way, and I quote: « We shall be empowered by the introduction of profound reforms in the public administration and in the lives of enterprises, which enable each worker to participate fully in all fields of life(...) ». This introduction of reforms, with a view to achieving these objectives, has been a constant of the CDS over four decades. in this sense, if we do not intend to teach any party, we do not accept them from any other party. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, in Article 59 of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. o — The rights of workers, the second right enshrined in this Article, and I quote: « The organization of work in socially dignified conditions, in order to enable personal fulfillment and to enable the reconciliation of professional activity with family life». The right to this conciliation has been a continuous battle on the part of the CDS, because we recognize that it is a field where there is still much to do, where it is possible to do much more and where it is required that we all do so. The reconciliation of professional life with family life is one of the great current themes and this pandemic has further reinforced this need. There are opportunities to take advantage, such as the best regulation of work from home, and problems to avoid, in particular, the difficulty of stopping work after the contractual hours stipulated. Portugal needs to modernize and effectively lead through its legislation, opening up space for families and businesses to adjust better solutions for the reconciliation between family and professional life. It does not make sense that labour legislation continues to make work so difficult from home, preventing anyone from working part of their working time or part of their week or part of the year from working from home. It is essential to change this state of affairs, giving more freedom and flexibility to the employer and the worker so that they can effectively reconcile professional life with family life, working from home, as part of their normal working time, smart working, as is essential — and the CDS has already entered an initiative — effectively enshrine the worker's right to disconnect, so that it does not receive calls, contacts or messages, except in situations of need of prevention, in urgent situations. It is also essential to adapt the functioning of day care centres and educational establishments to the new needs of families, thus facilitating greater flexibility in daycare hours. The CDS has put forward proposals on a continuous basis to make these daycare hours more flexible in order to adapt them to working hours, but the left continues to reject them systematically. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, the vision that the CDS has of the world of work and the enhancement of workers' rights is not a vision based on antagonistic poles, where they are on one side and others are on the other side or where they are on the right side and others are on the wrong side. No, companies have a decisive and indispensable role in the recovery of these rights. Many companies have already adopted measures that allow the worker to have a more flexible time to have more time with his family, such as the maintenance of day care facilities or infants. Other companies, in turn, provide social benefits, such as health insurance for spouses and children of their workers. For the CDS, it is important that these efforts are recognized and rewarded due to the achievement of social utility. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, concluding that it is indeed time for Article 59 ( 1 ( b ) to be implemented. the Constitution and establish a true reconciliation of professional activity with family life. Workers deserve it, companies need it and families demand it. Let's do what we have to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u145	You, as President of the Board, did not even receive the union to discuss working hours! He didn't even get the union!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u146	You have the floor, Mr Fernando José, for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u147	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: I begin by welcoming the initiative of the Portuguese Communist Party, claiming that the concerns reflected therein are not the exclusive flags or priorities of the CFP but rather concerns that unite us all in a common objective. The fight against job insecurity, the promotion of the agenda for decent work and the promotion of collective bargaining are themes that are reflected at every moment in government measures and priorities in the political action of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u148	A path so far taken by the Government, the Socialist Party and all the left, a path that, even in an unprecedented crisis context, continues to be going without blind cuts, without the withdrawal of rights and with the fight against job insecurity, I reaffirm, as a central objective in government action. In the fight against this crisis we do not take a step back in the replacement of rights and therefore it is necessary to reaffirm that, contrary to what happened in the 2011 / 2014 crisis, the responses now found by the Government to combat the effects of this new and difficult phase of our lives do not consist in austerity measures. These are, therefore, brands that clearly distinguish the Government of the Socialist Party from the PSD/CDS right-wing government, a government that went beyond the requirements of the troika and that did not spare any effort in the context of crisis, to sacrifice even more Portuguese workers, to withdraw rights and to attack collective bargaining by means of the «cavet veto» of the issue of extension ports. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] However, this path of densification of better conditions and greater stability for Portuguese workers is the recognition that so far « the word given has been an honest word». [[PSD protests.]] And this is an example: the amendment of the regulation on the transmission of establishments with greater protection for workers; the full replacement of remuneration and holiday and Christmas allowances and holidays cut by the PSD/CDS right-wing government;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the increase of the compulsory enjoyment by the father of a parental leave from 15 to 20 days, which are not just words but actions; the reduction of the maximum duration of the fixed term contracts from three to two years and of the uncertain term contracts from six to four years; the dynamization of the collective contract; the elimination of the individual hour bank; the period of 35 working days as a limit for the publication of the extension gates; and now, to avoid abuses in the deregulation of labour relations, a brake on the expiry of the collective agreements and also the historic reinforcement announced here today for the Act, fulfilling, for the first time, the ratios required by ILO (International Labour Organization).
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u150	in this way to combat precariousness, the PS refused to fire public officials, integrating thousands of precarious workers that the PSD wanted to fire. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Here we arrive, we are sure that it will be possible to continue to do more and better, it will be possible to correct and make different at every moment. But, Mr. President, Mr. Members, it should be noted that in 2019, and following an agreement reached with the majority of the social partners, amendments to the Labour Code were adopted in order to combat precariousness and promote collective bargaining. By not closing the door to all discussions aimed at combating job insecurity and strengthening labour rights, we have a lot to do: the Green Paper on the Future of Work, the regulation of the telework regime and the promotion of reconciliation between professional and family life require consensus and we are willing to work on these consensuses. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u151	For an intervention, Mr Eduardo Teixeira, from the PSD, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u152	Mr President, Mrs Minister, I welcome you, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The defence of workers is an important subject for everyone in this Chamber. However, there are many and too many views on what this interest is and how it should be done to do it in the best way. It is only natural that this should be the case and that we can debate it freely, because we are in democracy, with freedom of expression, negotiation and initiative in order to be able to work. This is precisely why we have a Labour Code which has a framework in various forms of performance, even in an avant-garde form, as we have recently seen with discussions on telework, which, with balance, frames the interests of all workers and employers. Of course, this Code brings together the unmistakable result of collective bargaining and the agreements reached at the heart of social dialogue. The weight of the various interests involved in the relationship of work and the balance that is taking place at every moment are essential factors for the development of the economy, in order to promote the indispensable social peace that we all seek and which is a sine qua condition for the progress of citizens, families, businesses and the country. in this framework, we will naturally find several choices that we must avoid and, if necessary, combat convincingly and denouncingly. The attacks on human rights, such as those that have been reported to us recently, are unacceptable and must be rejected by the rule of law that we are proud of. Let there be no confusion: such practices, attacks on freedom and respect for one's neighbor, which we defend to the last consequences, are not part of us, are not free public or private initiative, are crime, and as crimes that are to be pursued and judged with firm hands, but with justice, in the existing legal framework and without hesitation. Unfortunately, we were confronted with a disoriented government, which first ignored it, and then acted to harm those who should help in the first place. We have even witnessed the use of practices of other times to invade people's homes under cover of night, which are changed from place to place as if they were furniture, frightened, reduced in their condition by economic fragility, brutal weapons equipment and the waste of time. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today's reflection is relevant. We must all be on the side of freedom, respect for our neighbor, dignity of work and hope, every renewed day, of a more developed, more equitable, fairer and respectable country for human rights, even if the Government is not, and above all, the Minister, when the government is not, because governing is serving Portugal and not sailing only when there are safe waters and winds of spells. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u153	Mrs Marta Freitas of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament, Mrs Minister, speaking at work and speaking in the rights of workers is also speaking in inclusion. An inclusion that allows all citizens and citizens, without exception, to be entitled, regardless of their abilities, to decent, regular and stable work. Only in this way will we move towards a more equal, inclusive, fair society. We are all aware of the measures implemented by the socialist governments in guaranteeing the rights of people with disabilities, so that they can achieve their autonomy and self-determination, which is a priority. We are all aware of the importance of the accumulation of the Social Benefit for Inclusion with the income of work. We are all aware of the importance of the law on access to employment for people with disabilities, ensuring inclusion and access to work. But we also know that times of crisis show inequalities, which have a greater impact on the most vulnerable. That's why, sirs. Members, it was necessary to strengthen protection measures, equitable measures, when we did not all feel the same reality, it was necessary to create mechanisms to allow the same access, the same rights, it was necessary to create measures increased in disability situations, and this is what the Government has done, and this is an example of 35 % increases for internship or hiring people with disabilities in extraordinary support. On Labour Day, it strengthened the Government’s strategy in a joint support action, which is intended to be continued, to disabled workers through the Value T Agency. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that the Government will continue this work of inclusion, to look at the other, whether within its capabilities, as a potential worker, without stigmas, without fear, without ignorance, working online for a common good, for a more inclusive society where one wants to live. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u155	Mr Tiago Barbosa de Melo, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor. In fact, Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, I apologize, but it was an implicit tribute I did.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u156	You're sorry, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The debate that the Portuguese Communist Party brought here and which is now closing is an important debate on workers' rights, because it allows us to highlight the path we have made in the enhancement of labour rights, both in the private sector and here has been reiterated, as in the Public Administration. This path has not begun now and, as often in politics memory is short, it has been here remembered, and well, the path we have come to make since 2015. This path has continued and strategy since 2015, when we started a process of national « impoverishment » after the years of governance of the PSD and CDS, which believed in a policy in which the country, all of us, society and the economy, would be more competitive with less rights and lower wages. And, moreover, they did not go any further because, fortunately, the Constitutional Court prevented them from doing so. In fact, Mrs. Sandra Pereira, who usually brings the clipping here, and we thank her for her clipping is always very important, and clipping since 2010 — be careful because this even creates moisture — curiously did not bring... [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u157	It's the story!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u158	Is that the story? Oh, my God! But history is in the Canal História, it is not in the Assembly of the Republic, and it is very important that in this history they do not forget the rest, in particular the cuts they have made and the cuts they wanted to make, and only did they no longer because there was opposition in the Assembly of the Republic and in the Constitutional Court to the courts they wanted to make to the workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] We showed that another way was possible and we implemented that other way. And on this path that we have made since 2015 includes the historical increase of the minimum wage, which has grown 32 % since 2015 and which will increase until the end of this legislation, in a total accumulated of €245 per month, per worker ; the replacement of the four holidays that have cut off; the Programme for Regularization of precarious links in the Public Administration ; the end of the Regime de Requalification and Special Mobility in the Public Administration ; the replacement of wages and working hours for the employees of the Public Administration ; the revision of the portals of extension of the collective labour conventions; the strengthening of the means and competences of the Labour Conditions Authority; the share of access to jobs for disabled workers; several changes in labour law, many changes, which have protected the rights of those who work. This includes the fight against moral harassment, the fight against forced labour, the right of opposition of workers in the event of transmission of the establishment, the limitation of the term contracting regime, the strengthening of the protection of temporary workers, the excessive turnover rate of the companies' frameworks or the end of the individual hour bank, among many other changes that have been made and that have always had a point in common: they were proposed and made by the Socialist Party and always had the opposition of the parties on the right to parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] By making these advances, we have compatible the spaces of legitimacy of the Assembly of the Republic, of consultation and of social dialogue and the result has been more employment, under all the indicators that we want to bring here and in all segments, and better employment, in quality, in the stability of employment and in the remuneration of work. Then came the pandemic and our fundamental concern was to respond to the social and labor emergency that it caused, rejecting austerity and supporting the incomes of families and businesses. It is a unique effort in our recent history, with more than 2, 9 million people covered, 174 000 companies and 3, 8 billion euros in paid support, including exemptions. Thanks to these and other measures, we managed to preserve jobs, we managed to preserve income, we managed to preserve companies, progressively defeating the pandemic, but also defeating its worst social and labor effects, safeguarding rights and wages and also ensuring, it is good to remember, the sustainability of public, universal and intergenerational social security. Term: now is the time to focus on new dynamics, it is time to think about the future, while the PSD seems to be in the past, to think about the new dynamics around the Green Paper, around the telework, around the workers of the platforms, but never losing sight that, in our view, decent work is the standard of decent society...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u160	... and the Portuguese see themselves in public policies that preserve workers' rights and see themselves in the role that the Socialist Party plays in the preservation of these rights, in the Assembly of the Republic and in the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u161	I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u162	I will finish, Mr. President. We know that not everything is done, as it is never in political life, but this debate has allowed us to demonstrate the enormous path and the way in which we refocus social and labour policies in the country. This is what we will continue to do and it is for this work that we have all want to move the country forward with more rights, more incomes and more social protection. The country knows it counts with the Socialist Party on this path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u163	We shall enter the closing phase, and Mr António Filipe has the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u164	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The debate we held today demonstrates the fairness of its marking by the CFP. The epidemic that has marked national life has been exacerbating weaknesses that already existed in our social fabric. As is typical of crisis situations, they are the most fragile to pay the bill. We have held this debate in a framework which, regardless of any pandemic, was already marked by a huge imbalance in labour law and the world of work to the detriment of workers and their rights. As if it were not enough for the workers to have been whipped by decades of right-wing policies, by the brutality of the measures put in place by the PSD/CDS government by imposition or pretext of the troika and by the stubborn refusal of the PS governments to correct the most negative aspects of labour law, the pandemic has created the environment conducive to new attacks on workers' rights. Despite the grandoquency of speeches on digital transition, the truth is that we continue to be a country of low wages. We live in a country where hundreds of thousands of workers become impoverished, in a country where large managers increase themselves in millions of euros per year, while hundreds of thousands of workers, who, at the cost of their work, generate such millionaire profits, take home less than 600 € per month. The significant increase in minimum wage and average wage is an unacceptable imperative of justice and a condition of economic and social progress. The working reality of our country continues to be marked by an unacceptable precariousness, based on old and new formats. At the end of the contract, which remains almost a rule for young people's hiring, false green receipts and an extended experimental period of six months, there are now new forms of outsourcing, of temporary employment contracts, of false independent work through digital platforms, when not almost slavery with the use of immigrant labour generated through human trafficking networks for labour exploitation. The deregulation of working hours, through group or individual working hours banks and night and shifts, continues to negatively mark the lives of many thousands of workers, subject to an arbitrary employer of the definition of working hours that makes the reconciliation between personal and professional life infernal. As a result of the pandemic or, more precisely, the pretext of this one, we witnessed a new wave of attacks on the rights of workers that many elucidative examples have been given during this debate. We do not ignore that due to the approval of the CFP proposal in the State budget for 2021, about 300 000 layoff workers receive the 100 % salary. We have fought for it and we appreciate that fact. But we cannot ignore that, on the pretext of the crisis, collective redundancies occur in many companies, using and abusing the maintenance of redundancies at a balance price. Many thousands of precarious contracts have not been renewed and many so-called self-employed workers have simply become unemployed. The employer uses and abuses telework, not to defend the health of workers but to isolate them, to transfer costs with facilities, energy or telecommunications to the workers themselves, to disregard schedules and impose the duty of permanent availability. However, the Labour Conditions Authority gives priority to the lack of means, paralysis and the absence of intervention where it is indispensable to defend workers against denial of rights and employers' arbitrariness. The denunciation of the reality of work in our country is important and indispensable, but the purpose of this appeal to the Government is not limited to the complaint. The adoption of measures to restore justice in the world of work, to value work and workers and to prevent the "law of the jungle" imposed by the patronage is a requirement. It is a constitutional requirement, a requirement for civilizational progress, a requirement for a society that is more just and decent. It is a requirement that the government and the PS cannot steal. Words are not enough to enhance the dedication of workers, there must be correspondence between words and acts.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u165	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u166	What the national situation requires is the general increase in wages, the value of careers and professions, the increase of the national minimum wage for the €850, aiming at overcoming the unfair distribution of national income. What is required is the reduction of working hours to 35 hours per week, the limitation of continuous work and shift work, the respect and compliance of hours. What is required is the revocation of the expiry of the collective contract and the replacement of the principle of the most favourable treatment of the worker. What is required is the replacement of redundancies for the values that existed before the troika. What is required is the elimination of work precariousness and the enforcement of the rights of all workers, the Public Administration and the private sector, without discrimination between men and women or on grounds of nationality or ethnic origin. What is required is accessible labour justice and an Authority for Working Conditions with means and guidelines to intervene in favour of workers' constitutional rights. What is required is a concrete response from the Government and the PS to these pressing issues of national life. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In times of bad memory, but not far away, a PSD Member in this House said that the Portuguese were worse, but the country was better. That is why the Portuguese did not know how to impose a new phase in national political life in 2015. In 2021, in the face of a crisis situation that needs to be overcome, the country will only be better if the workers are not worse. There will be no escape from the crisis if it does not translate into improving the living conditions of those who, with their labor force, create the wealth that others benefit from.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u167	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u168	This interpellation is ending, but the CFP's struggle for valuing work and workers is a constant struggle and will continue. It will always continue, with determination and confidence in a better future for workers and the people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u169	To close the debate, Mrs. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we just had allowed us to draw conclusions. It allows, of course, to reaffirm, if necessary, that the rights of workers are of the greatest relevance and must be at the heart of our debate, but it also allows to conclude, once again, that some of what they mention here do not have a history of defending workers' rights,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u171	... have, on the contrary, a record of the sacrifice of workers' rights, on behalf of the so-called "structural reforms", and a history of making the workers the first line of sacrifices in times of crisis. That was the case in the previous crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] The government is committed, and has already proved and demonstrated it with actions, to ensure that the response to this pandemic crisis follows a completely different path and strategy. Instead of freezing wages, rather than reducing income, rather than reducing the rights of workers, rather than devaluing collective bargaining, we have waged, from the moment zero, in a very different response: defending employment, putting in the field extraordinary, unprecedented support for businesses, employment, with reflections on the stabilization of the unemployment rate, today few tenths above the beginning of the pandemic; preserving incomes; valuing wages, as seen, in fact, with the continuation of the path of increasing minimum wage; defending and dynamising collective bargaining, as seen with the 24-month moratorium in terms of expiry; defending workers' rights, as seen with the maintenance of 100 % of workers' income in simplified layoffs and with the strengthening of the powers and inspectors of the Act for a maximum of historic today. Cross-cuttingly, the promotion of the quality of employment and work with rights is a framework for our response to the crisis, in deep contrast to the past. The principles we have defended since 2015 and which have marked a complete turn in labour and employment policies and in the labour market itself, have not ceased to serve with the pandemic crisis. On the contrary, these principles and values, the values of decent work, become even more decisive at such a difficult and uncertain stage for all workers and all workers, but in particular for young people, for young families, for single-parent families, for middle classes, for those with less income, for the most unprotected workers. For all of them and for the labour market as a whole, we must pursue a strategy to promote employment and the quality of employment. That is why we have said that — I have said here today, today, and I reaffirm - at the end of this debate, at the end of this debate, that the promotion of a decent agenda agenda of decent work is one of the main priorities of the Government: to strengthen the fight against precariousness, to prevent and combat abuses and illegalities, particularly in the contracting chains, in self-employment or the abuse of temporary work at the end of this debate, and to reaffirm at the end of this debate that the promotion of a decent agenda of decent work is one of the main priorities of the Government: to strengthen the fight against precariousness, to prevent and combat abuses and illegalities, to prevent and combat abuse abuses and illegalities, in particular in the context of the new forms of work and new forms and new forms of work and platforms and platforms and platforms and platforms, particularly in the context of the new forms of work, in the context, and in the context of these strategic priorities and strategic priorities ; to promote collective bargaining and their ; to promote collective bargaining and their vig vig, by real vig, by increasing value, increasing coverage to cover, to cover, regardless of the different different different employees, regardless regardless of their link, regardless of their link, regardless of their link, and to their link, and their link, and their link, and by by by, and by, and by by, and by, and by introducing, by introducing, by, by by by by, by, by, and by, by, by, by, and by, by, by, by, by, by introducing, and by by by by by by by by by, by, by, through through through through through through through through through through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through and through, through, through and through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through and through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through and through and through, through, through, through, through and through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through, through and through, through, through and through, through, through, through, through and through, through and through, through, Quoting Pope Francis, «precautionary kills dignity, kills health, kills family, kills society».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u173	Combating precariousness, changing what needs to be changed and promoting the agenda for decent work is our strategy and our priority. This is our commitment, this is our way, that must be shared and that we will not stop going together. We need the strength and support needed to have more public policies in Portugal that contribute to creating jobs, promoting inclusion in the labour market, strengthening rights, strengthening the quality of employment, promoting adaptation to change and making the future of work a future with confidence, prospects and rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-19.u174	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this debate and are therefore walking towards the end of this session. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow at 3 p.m. and will have the following agenda item: the first item is for political declarations; the second point consists of the joint debate of the Bill No 88 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1024 on open data and reuse of information from the public sector and draft Law No 840 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Promotes the deepening of the provision of open data relating to public sector information ( third amendment to Law No 26 / 2016 of 22 August ) ; the third point is for the assessment of the Proposal for Law No 96 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the tax regime of the organizers of the end of the UEFA Champions League 2020 / 2021 competition ; finally, there will be scheduled votes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. See you tomorrow and good afternoon and good night to all. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 47 minutes.]]
