ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the galleries to be opened. We will initiate the agenda with the announcement that three members are being held in Sala D. Maria, for the representative of the PAN Parliamentary Group in the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic, of two members for the Board of Supervisors of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, of three members for the Board of Supervisors of the Integrated Criminal Information System, of six members for the National Health Council and one member for the Superior Council of National Defence. Therefore, as far as they are able, it was good for them to vote, so that shortly after the end of the vote, the polls could be closed. In the second item on the agenda we have the joint debate of the Bill No 13 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends the Tax Code on Added Value, approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December — Exemption from the provision of services performed in the exercise of the profession of veterinary doctor of the payment of value added tax ( VAT ) of the Bill No 882 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Harmonises the VAT rate applicable to medical veterinary services, in general, and of the Draft Resolution No 1211 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Reduction of the VAT of medical veterinary acts. For the opening of the debate, Mrs Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We currently have a 23 % VAT rate applied to veterinary services relating to pet animals, but the same professional to provide the same veterinary care to animals used for livestock is subject to a 6 % rate. We know that the directive determines that the VAT rate of these services cannot be less than 12 %. However, the Tax Authority interprets that the acts applied to livestock animals, such as these serve as human feed, should have a reduced rate, ignoring that the remaining animals may also have an impact on our health. According to the World Organisation for Animal Health, 75% of infectious disease agents in people are of animal origin. For this reason, WHO (World Health Organization ), the World Organisation of Animal Health and the UN ( United Nations Organization ) launched the initiative entitled A World Health, a concept that the Portuguese Veterinary Doctors' Order also defends. Whether it is for food or not, the link between people and animals is undeniable and, indeed, veterinary medicine is medicine and also aims to safeguard the health of all of us, thus not justifying any discrimination at the VAT rate to be applied, and I propose to harmonise the 6 % rate for all veterinary acts.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u3	You have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Autonomous Region of Madeira brings us a proposal for a law on the recognition of the importance of medical and veterinary acts in fiscal policies, which continue to be treated as luxury. In addition to many medical-veterinary services, when we speak in veterinary medicine we also speak in public health, so this argument should be sufficient for those who consider that veterinary doctors should not have equal treatment with other health professionals. The NAP not only considers that veterinary doctors should see this injustice corrected, valuing their role in society, but also that animal health must be an important policy for the government. The NAP has already presented a number of proposals with various formats, different solutions, in view of ensuring a path that lowers VAT in veterinary services, because a decision of this would also mean less costs for people who have animals considered to be pet or even for animal protection associations, which often replace themselves with the State, making the role of the NAP, by sterilizing and ensuring medical and veterinary care for abandoned animals. It is with great sacrifice that you can often access these services and it is with great personal loss that many people who mobilize for the protection of animals have to pay such high accounts in a medical-veterinary service, which is due to the fact that almost a quarter of that value is value added tax. It is indisputable, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the importance of pets for more and more people. There is an ever-increasing national and international movement for animal rights and there is increasingly academic studies that demonstrate the role that animals have in people's lives, as well as numerous works and treats about their intrinsic value and their emotional lives. The fact that this House, at its last Legislative Session, has ensured progress in criminalizing ill-treatment and abandonment of pet animals and that it has been recognized in the Civil Code that animals are live beings endowed with sensitivity and legal protection because of their nature are steps that, of course, also need to be followed by tax policies. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, animals are also victims of poverty. That is, there are many pet owners, who obviously care about them, like them and have in them their only company, who cannot even equal the way to a veterinary doctor due to the high costs of associated treatments and the state must guarantee them answers. The NAP has brought a number of proposals with this objective and today we are bringing another one so that the Portuguese Government can undertake the necessary steps to apply the reduced rate to medical and veterinary acts within the framework of the review of the VAT directive. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to say that I made you wrong recently because the current votes are not in Chamber D. Maria but in the Senate Chamber. It therefore rests the truth of the facts. Mr Alberto Fonseca of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As long as man's relationship with other animals takes a dominant role. It is estimated that more than 10 000 years have passed since the human being is related to dogs and cats, and this very important relationship in various domains is currently reflected in our society, our culture, our customs. It is not by chance that more than half of the Portuguese households have at least one pet. In many of these homes, where only one person lives, the pet is even the only company of that person. It is therefore very important to treat animal health, which is said here in a literal sense. when caring for animal health we are caring for human health, we are taking care of public health. The veterinarian is primarily responsible for the prevention of zoonoses, diseases that are transmitted from animals to humans and which, in turn, originate more than half of infectious human diseases. However, the profession of veterinary doctor is the only one in the health area that is not exempt from VAT. It is therefore legitimate for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and Mrs Cristina Rodrigues to reduce, or even exempt, the rate of VAT in medical veterinary acts. However, this claim is based on Directive 2006 / 112 / EC of the Council of the European Union on the common system of value added tax. The Office of the Minister of State and Finance is taxable when it says that any reduction or exemption of VAT in veterinary medical acts is not in line with the provisions of the VAT directive binding on the Portuguese legislator, which is evidenced by the verification that all countries of the European Union apply the normal VAT rate to these medical acts. Less than a year ago, in response to MEPs, the European Economic Commissioner confirmed that veterinary care for pet animals cannot benefit from a reduced rate of VAT. Therefore, it is not possible to do so by reducing the VAT rate, to be able to seek other more effective ways to promote an increase in the preventive treatment of animals, to think about public health and the environment. This is a concern of numerous associations, a little throughout the country, who have done tireless work and not always recognized in the defence of animal rights, often in place of State responsibilities. We have seen a serious problem of overcrowding many official collection centres whose resolution is not easy. Technicians warn that animals accumulate in these centres, which do not have the conditions to host excess population. On the other hand, overall, the municipal chambers are not equipped with means to confront the growing canidian population. There are records of strips of wild dogs that enhance the risk of public health through the transmission of diseases, destruction of agricultural infrastructures, attacks on men and other animals. One year ago, the country witnessed, with dismay, the fire in Santo Tirso that took the life of more than 70 animals. Unhesitatingly, the State has failed, either at the level of the local authority or at the level of the government. And how does the government solve the problem? It instrumentates pets in "political commodity" with political forces and activists.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u7	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u8	Transfer the protection of pet animals from DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary), entity with competence and experience in animal health and management, to the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests, established without any sensitivity and know-how in the area of pet animals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u10	... whether in public health matters, whether in liaison with municipal authorities and municipal veterinary doctors, who depend on DGAV rather than the ICNF. Against all technical and scientific opinions, due to theimosia and political incapacity, the Government insisted on a decision that seriously compromises the well-being and health of pets, withdrawing them from the institute itself and transporting them to the Institute of Forests, which has suffered for years from lack of means, human and financial to meet their commitments, as has been repeatedly recognised by its President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u11	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u12	With this, the main harm is pets. The PSD has always worked in animal protection, particularly when animal abuse was criminalized in 2014 at its initiative or when animal legal status was created in 2017. But, as we have seen, even without changing the VAT rate, the government can and has much to do with the protection and health of animals. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u13	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives under discussion concern VAT on services provided by veterinary doctors, with a view to extending the reduced rate of 6 % to medical veterinary care for pet animals, a discussion which, due to the impact on the tax revenue it objectively has, should be taken first of all within the framework of the State budget, since these matters should not be viewed in isolation but rather from a global perspective which takes account of the relative balance of tax in this case. When we discuss these VAT issues in an isolated way—and often these proposals appear here—in such specific matters, we always have the problem that, alone, there are always reasons for the many requests that arrive at the Assembly of the Republic to lower VAT in this sector or in that sector of activity or product. The issue of isolated discussions, not from a general perspective on the structure of VAT, may be unfair in the rates of different products and services. There is also another problem when we discuss these proposals to lower the VAT of this or that product, which we have no guarantee that this reduction will be reflected in consumer prices. In other words, the reduction in VAT can be totally absorbed and does not mean the reduction of prices, making no progress towards the objective proclaimed by the initiatives under consideration, which is to make access to veterinary services more accessible by people with pets. We recognize the need to take steps to make these services more accessible, because having a pet cannot be a luxury accessible only to some, we doubt that these initiatives result in greater accessibility. And it was to be recognized that steps must be taken in this direction that the CFP presented in the State budget for 2021 a proposal saying: « In 2021, the Government strengthens investment in university veterinary hospitals to improve the provision of veterinary services to deprived families and zoophiles », which was rejected by the combination of votes against the PS and the withdrawal of PSD and Liberal Initiative. It is true that the prices of medical and veterinary care are often incompatible with those who have low incomes or associations that deal with the lack of resources and support, but nothing guarantees us that, with these initiatives, prices are less inappropriate. Therefore, what is needed is to move forward with public responses—such as that presented by the CFP and that PS and PSD rejected—that have a real reach for those who have pets and need to provide them with medical and veterinary care without, with this, emptying the wallet. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u15	For the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cecilia Meireles spoke for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today three different initiatives that have to do with VAT, so let us say of medical and veterinary acts, and the initiative of the Regional Legislative Assembly of Madeira proposes that they be exempt from VAT, another initiative that proposes that they have the minimum rate, that is, 6 %, and yet another one that proposes that they be taxed at the intermediate rate, i.e. 13 %. Firstly, I think it is worth looking at the question of the point of view of pets and families, for which these charges borne with this good and service, the service of veterinary doctors, absolutely essential, are indeed very heavy. But as we are discussing VAT taxation, I think it is worth looking at all VAT taxation. These discussions about certain services or products, which we systematically have in the State budget and outside it, looking at the tables of the reduced rate and the intermediate rate of VAT without looking at the whole of what is there, seem to me to be wrong. Why? Because we're evaluating a part of reality and we're not doing the full evaluation. I'm going to give an example: medicines, pharmaceutical specialties, other pharmaceutical products, measuring devices, needles, syringes, pens for insulin administration, all this is subject to a reduced rate of VAT. Does it make sense that we are exempting medical-veterinary acts and, in this kind of medicine, we are applying a reduced rate of VAT? from the point of view of the relative values in question, it makes no sense, of course! I am going to give another example, the proposal presented by the CDS in the discussion of the State budget so that food processed from cereals and baby foods would also be included in the reduced rate of 6 %. This proposal has been dropped! Does it make sense to exclude baby foods and cereal foods, but include medical-veterinary acts? Oh, my God! The logic of all VAT taxes has at all made sense. Therefore, from this point of view, we will maintain the abstention with which we have already voted in the State budget, but always with this conviction that there has to be an intrinsic logic of the system and that it would make sense to make a general review of the VAT rates tables, because they begin to make no sense precisely because of these point changes. Finally, I understand the concern about zoonoses and public health, but I would like to remind you that Portugal, unfortunately, through its government, chose to have an absolutely unique organization and withdraw the protection of pet matters to the general direction that it held and passed it to the Ministry of the Environment, in fact, with the firm opposition not only from the Order of Veterinaries but also from several international organizations. Therefore, if our concern is with zoonoses, it is more valuable that we have not taken this measure, which is absolutely tragic and which can have very serious consequences for public health. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u17	For an intervention, Mrs Vera Braz of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the basis of the projects presented today is a concern that is not exclusive to the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, it is not exclusive to Mrs Cristina Rodrigues nor is it exclusive to the NAP. Animal health, the promotion of their well-being, their integration as an active part in the defence of public health are the concerns of all of us and, of course, they must also be welcomed by society in general. Many of us will certainly have pets. It has already been mentioned here that about half of our homes have at least one animal and we well know the importance that these animals assume in our family, with undeniable impacts not only on our routines, but also on our experiences, and with a redoubled impact on those for whom this is really the only company. Fortunately, in addition to the evolution of the legislation which aims to ensure animal welfare, we also witness an evolution of the society itself, which assumes the duty of caring for animals, providing them not only for food and hygiene, but also by trying to guarantee them access to medical and veterinary care. We well know that sometimes it's extra expenses, some unexpected, and that affect the family budget. The Socialist Party recognises this difficulty and has given signs that it wants to be part of this solution, to contribute to the pursuit of animal welfare and health. For this reason, for example, he voted in favour of the NAP's proposal to increase the deduction of VAT within IRS (tax on income of natural persons) in veterinary medicinal products, in the last State budget, as well as favourably other proposals, such as that of the ENP, to support zoophyll associations. No, the Socialist Party is neither insensitive nor indifferent to this cause, but the Socialist Party is neither irresponsible nor inconsequential either. The gentlemen. Members know perfectly well that there is a directive that harmonises the VAT system at European level, to which Portugal responds, and that it is neither compatible nor allows for the implementation of the exemption provided for by the proposal of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira or even the reduction, as provided for in the bill of Mrs Cristina Rodrigues. The Socialist Party will maintain its support for this cause, as a defender of animal welfare, closely linked to our well-being as a human being and public health, but in the most correct way. This must be a subject of discussion within the European Union in the context of the revision of the VAT directive and we will certainly be able to count on our Government to continue to defend this cause and not to turn its back on it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u19	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As the pandemic has shown, human health and population well-being are closely linked to animal health and it is not by chance that the World Health Organization and other entities advocate a single health issue. Do not keep on seeking. ” What is proposed today is precisely to respond to this need, to recognize that prevention in animal health is also prevention in human health and that, as in the latter, there are essential services that must be provided to animals and that these essential services are also provided to humans. To all animals we want to respond, not only to those who are considered essential to ensure human food. We are also ensuring, or trying to guarantee, the response to animals that live with all of us. We know that eight of the diseases with the greatest risk to public health are, precisely, transmitted by animals and there are two proposals which together work to respond to some of the obstacles mentioned here today, i.e. not only tackle the problem of European directives, as they propose a change to the value of VAT. They work together to resolve a proposal that has been stabilized over the years by various entities and that we have already discussed here in the State budget. It is not true that it has not already been presented. Since animal health is recognized as essential in human nutrition, we must also acknowledge that it is essential for human health. It is true that it will not end poverty, but harmonises, as I said, public health, all the more so that there are essential mandatory medical and veterinary acts. And I recall the question of sterilization, which is a legislative obligation, and well, an obligation that we put on the table, because it is an advance that we have achieved for our legal and social order and that must also be guaranteed with the least possible costs. There are, in fact, several ways to ensure less burden on animal health, there is a need to guarantee public support, but this is one of the proposals that must also be considered, not withdrawing the possibility of continuing to advance, as we have been doing, in legislative amendments that have come to guarantee animal welfare, animal health and, as such, also public health, human health. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u21	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha spoke again of the NAP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is clear from this debate that there is recognition of the importance of policies to ensure access to medical and veterinary care. And it is also clear that the parties that do not follow the NAP proposal — which only requires that the Government, in the framework of the negotiations at European level, can ensure the revision of the VAT rate so that we can effectively apply VAT at reduced rates to these medical-veterinary acts — will only express two things: a prejudice to animal health and the role of veterinary doctors and, at the same time, also a total lack of knowledge of the difficulties that people who have pets, who welcome them, care for them, such as animal protection associations, often replacing themselves with the State, have to ensure these veterinary care, by way, also of the added value tax being so high in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u23	Since there are no more entries to intervene in this debate, we turn to the next item on the agenda, the general assessment of the Bill No 14 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends the Code of the Income Tax for Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November, and Decree-Law No 413 / 98 of 31 December, in its current wording, which approved the Supplementary Scheme of the Tax and Customs Inspection Procedure—On the right of autonomous regions to the tax revenue of IRC resulting from income in their territory. To open this debate, Mr Carlos Brás of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Proposal for a Law No 14 / XIV / 1 is under discussion. a, the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. It proposes that this Legislative Assembly, on the basis of this proposal, amend the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons and the Supplementary Scheme of the Tax and Customs Inspection Procedure, allegedly by the right of autonomous regions to the tax revenue of IRC (tax on the income of collective persons) resulting from income obtained in its territory. With the initiative under consideration, the proposer intends to amend certain declarative rules on the income tax of legal persons and that these amendments reflect the way in which tax revenue is allocated to autonomous regions. In particular, the purpose is to establish the requirement to fill out Annex C of the IRC Model 22 Income Statement, including Table 3 - Breakdown of turnover in situations of non-collectible material. On the proposed declaration obligation, in our view, there is no advantage in the distribution of revenue to the autonomous regions, in particular the collection of IRC. And why isn't there any advantage? For the simple fact that the Finance Act of the Autonomous Regions already determines that, as regards legal persons with effective headquarters or direction in Portugal who have branches, agencies, facilities or others in more than one constituency, the revenues of each district result from the proportion between the annual turnover of the year corresponding to the premises of each autonomous region and the total annual turnover. in this sense, in cases of lack of collectable material, there will be no income to be distributed by autonomous regions, setting this obligation only and only in a declaratory burden of the public, without effective revenue gains for the autonomous regions. In addition, the proposed addition to Article 5. o -A to the IRC Code does not seem to have any benefits, given that a reproduction of an existing and existing regulation appears to be in force. I am referring in particular to Article 26. that of the Finance Act of the Autonomous Regions, thus consisting of redundancy and legislative duplication. It should also be noted that, in the previous Parliament, there was a similar proposal on the same subject, with the same meaning and extension of the initiative under discussion, but which had just expired. Regardless of the legitimacy and full legality of the proposal, until the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira has acted within its own initiative, the tax obligations and, in particular, the declarations must, in our view, be restricted to those absolutely necessary and indispensable for the purposes in question. We understand that predictability and fiscal stability are fundamental values which, together with administrative simplification and, in this case, in particular, declarative simplification, should be placed at the disposal of taxpayers, which we are all at last. I am still allowed a generic consideration, which is not solely about the initiative in question. As a legislative body, we should fight in Parliament for really useful and effective proposals, but unfortunately it is not uncommon for us to see duplications and recurrences of proposals that at no point contribute to legislative clarity and simplification. On the contrary, we are often involved in debates and votes that only aim merely at partisan objectives and momentary calculus, depending on the media agendas of little or no use for Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u25	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this proposal for a law of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, we will not be long, since it seems to us that this is an eminently technical matter or practice, if we want, and because, as has been said, has already been addressed several times in this House. In fact, what is intended is to solve a problem that is not of legislation meddling in legislation. It is explicit in the law of regional finances that IRC from the activity in the region constitutes a revenue from the region. What happens is that companies which have their headquarters outside the autonomous regions but which obtain income in the autonomous regions end up not filling out Annex C, which allows them to achieve this improvement of the IRC of the regions. And they don't do it for any reason but technical or mere ignorance, because no entrepreneur could, would dispense a lower rate applied to the Azores or Madeira. What is intended is to create a new declarative obligation, absolutely indifferent and transversal, which would, for example, cause a taxi driver in Porto to say that he does not have income related to autonomous regions. We understand that this proposal does not add much and, therefore, we will maintain the option we have always maintained in response to this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u27	What is it? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u28	Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing, through this proposal, the IRC for autonomous regions. In our view, it seems to us that we are not able to capture business fabric for the Autonomous Region of the Azores, even with the eighth IRC rate and the second lowest VAT rate in the European Union. The same applies, of course, to the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Therefore, for the NAP, since companies that operate, operate and dynamize economically autonomous regions are exploiting their local resources, whether human or animal or environmental, it is of the most fundamental justice that IRC can revert to in favour of its own autonomous regions. Article 26. the Organic Law No. 2 / 2013 is already an important tool for the fiscal autonomy of autonomous regions. However, we need to go further. If the reduction in VAT for the autonomous regions is questionable in view of the economic environment we live in, I would like to say again, it is of the most fundamental justice that the IRC can bring to the benefit of the autonomous regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u30	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira aims to introduce some amendments to the IRC Code, the first being the addition of Article 5. o -A, which replicates the content of Article 26. o Organic Law No 2 / 2013. It does not seem to us that it is the most correct legislative technique, from the outset because it only reproduces a standard which, as part of an organic law, is enshrined in a certificate of hierarchically superior value and makes no sense to be here repeating it. The true criterion now proposed, which is shared by the IRC, and amending the IRC's distribution criterion, is the result of the amendment proposed in Article 17. It does not seem linear that what is now being proposed is the best. In fact, what is meant is that branches, delegations or other forms of permanent representation without legal personality are treated as if they were a stable establishment, returning to the so-called « separate accounting method », i.e. a separate accounting clearance of their corresponding results. In addition, it is proposed that all entities be obliged, those holding them at source, to identify whether or not the debtor of the withholding tax is covered by Article 5. The intention is to introduce, which means that another declarative obligation is being created for these entities. We therefore have the greatest doubts that this legislative solution is the best.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u32	Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject in question, in view of the increase in its declarative requirement, naturally obliges us to think of the cost of the context itself. And, as you well know, the gentlemen. Members, the cost of context is not indifferent to the economic principle of competitiveness. Getting into the economic point of view—and when we talk about the economy of a region we also talk about the economy of a country—it is essential to think of everything that contributes to a country being more competitive or not, and of course, the revenue that helps to leverage investment is fundamental. It is also clear that for this purpose it is necessary to comply with all the principles of cooperation and solidarity with the various bodies that exist, in particular in this case of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. But it is precisely for this purpose that there is the possibility, either through the State budget or through the companies that have their own autonomous regions, of this principle to be fulfilled. by increasing the cost of context with a higher requirement of declaration, we therefore enter an area which may be dangerous because of this same autonomy that allows us to set a different rate of IRC from the rest of the country and we also enter another problem with regard to predictability, stability and legal certainty, in this particular tax case, which is required of all economic agents and necessary for when they make their own plans and investments. And it is understood that, through private investment, it is also essential that the development of the country as a whole be praised, including, of course, autonomous regions, which play a fundamental role. It is notorious that the proposed principle is not at least ignored, it is a principle that exists and is provided for by law. It is therefore necessary to ensure that this principle is more detailed, that it has a different level of requirement, greater and higher and that it goes to the details of the operations of companies that develop this economic activity in the autonomous regions. But in the same way, as it is obvious, we are entering a field of detail that has to be seen as a whole, in a global perspective. And this overall perspective has economic effects which clearly do not compensate for those which are provided for here and which can be perfectly resolved with the instruments currently available. This is why we must continue to address what is necessary in order to develop the autonomous regions of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u34	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As you can see, even by previous interventions, this debate is not about fundamental principles on tax law. Moreover, the principle in question, which is the territorialization of income and the guarantee that these incomes are taxed in the territory where they were acquired, has been accepted by all banks. The debate is whether the law currently in force should be reinforced with administrative practices that eventually complicate the business's declarative process. We don't think so. This intention of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira is not new, since it has already been brought to Parliament for debate several times and has been rejected several times. Why? Because it does not replace the law, which is clear, unequivocal and even protects the autonomous regions and the claim brought here, and it intends, through a law, to amend administrative procedures, which should be done by raising awareness of the entities involved, businesses and entrepreneurs, or by promoting tax policy and clarifying how this policy can be developed by companies. This would be better than there would be a change to the law that, affecting the entire national territory, has just brought more complexity to something that is no longer easy to accomplish, which is the declarative obligation of companies. from our point of view, realizing and following the principle in question, as the rest of the banks have done, we disagree with this legislative initiative and we will therefore vote against it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u36	With no further inscriptions, this item on the agenda is now concluded. We will move on to the following point, which is part of the general discussion of the Bill No 19 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — By ensuring the financing of local authorities in the autonomous regions — Tenth amendment to the financial regime of local authorities and intermunicipal entities, approved by Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current drafting. Volunteers are expected to open this debate. [[Pause.]] Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative proposal that the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira submits to Parliament, undoubtedly, in the defence of the principle of regional autonomy, a regional autonomy which is assumed as one of the strongest achievements of democracy, a regional autonomy which is assumed as one of the main instruments of social and territorial cohesion at the disposal of the Portuguese Republic, a regional autonomy which is thus revealed as a further value for the country and, no doubt, as a far more advantageous solution than others found by our European partners for similar situations or with some similarity. PSD has always been a party to autonomy. PSD is, in fact, the founding party of autonomy. PSD is the party with more self-sustaining scrolls. And the PSD is the party that has always been at the forefront of defending autonomy. And now, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, none of this stems from any fear of disintegration in the country, but only because of the fact that it is our deep conviction that this is indeed the best way to deal with the difficulties of insularity. But the PSD is, and has always been, a party of local power and a party that defends, and has always defended, the strengthening of financial autonomy and the strengthening of the heritage autonomy of local authorities. Now, these are exactly two aspects that are at stake in the proposed law under consideration. In fact, when, in particular, we are proposed that the amounts of the participation of local authorities in state taxes do not understand the revenue generated in the autonomous regions, we are faced with a proposal that seeks to amend the law of local finances to affirm the law of regional finances. We understand and accept, of course, this purpose and this purpose. It comes from the law of regional finance and also comes, as we know, from the Political-Administrative Statute of the Autonomous Regions. It happens, however, that in terms of which this proposal is presented to us, in terms of which it is drafted, we do not walk to the financial reinforcement of the authorities, but we walk in exactly the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u38	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u39	And why? For a very simple reason: as is known, the amounts of the participation of local authorities in State taxes, or, if we wish, the distribution of public resources between the State and local authorities, is obtained, among other forms of participation, through a general grant, determined from the Financial Balance Fund, whose value is equal to 19, 5 % of the simple arithmetic average of the revenue from the collection of IRS and VAT. However, if for this calculation, as is recommended in the proposal under consideration, the revenue collected in the autonomous regions under IRS, IRC and VAT is not considered, of course, that the overall amount to be subsequently distributed to the authorities is lower. And, if it's smaller, everyone gets lost, i.e., they lose the municipalities of the continent, including then the municipalities of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, and that, in our view, naturally and obviously, is not desirable. We are thus faced with the old story of the short blanket: pull to cover your head, but your feet remain undiscovered. And if so — and we have no doubt that it is — this cannot be the way and we will have to find another alternative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u40	For an intervention, Mrs Marta Freitas of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u41	Mr President, Dear Members and Members : This diploma of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, discussed today in the Assembly of the Republic, aims to add a new article, Article 37. -A, Law No 73 / 2013 establishing the financial arrangements for local authorities and inter-municipal entities. So, let's go for points. First point: Articles 25. o is 26. that of Decree-Law No 51 / 2018, which introduce amendments to Decree-Law No 73 / 2013, determine in its subparagraph ( c ) that municipalities are entitled to a variable participation of 5 % in the IRS of taxable persons with tax domicile in their territorial constituency on incomes of the preceding year, calculated on their net collection of deductions provided for in Article 78 (1). the IRS Code. The second point is that they benefit from a 7, 5 % share of the VAT revenue charged in the housing, restoration, communications, electricity, water and gas sectors calculated in accordance with Article 26. o -A, and participation in the municipalities of the autonomous regions should be defined by own diploma in the regional legislative assemblies. Thirdly, the autonomous regions have, in accordance with the political-administrative statutes and the Finance Act of the Autonomous Regions, the tax revenue in which they are collected or generated. Therefore, there is no doubt that, under the Political-Administrative Statute of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, the Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, the tax revenue collected in Madeira, as well as other revenue allocated to it, constitutes the revenue of the region and is entitled to its delivery by the Government of the Republic. Bridge! There is also no doubt that the Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions does not prejudice the Financial Regime of Local Authorities, as well as the finances of local authorities located in the region are independent of the finances of the region itself. The PSD-Medeira, author of this initiative presented at the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, arguing that autonomous regions exercise the power of guardianship over local authorities, must not forget that the protection must be exercised in accordance with the forms and cases provided for in the law, always safeguarding the democratity and autonomy of the local authority. Nor can it be forgotten that the Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions in 2013, when the PSD and the CDS were government, came under Article 66. the, that the variable participation in the IRS in favour of local authorities in the autonomous regions is deducted from the revenue of IRS collected in their autonomous region, in accordance with Article 25. the State shall proceed directly to its delivery to the local authorities. The autonomy of local authorities requires a set of autonomous powers to ensure free and unconditional action in the face of central administration and should apply in autonomous regions vis-à-vis local administration. It is in this context that the budgetary, capital and financial autonomy as set out in Article 238. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, makes it essential for the principle of its autonomy that local authorities be endowed with adequate financial resources, highlighting the importance of the proximity these bodies have with the populations and to a fairer distribution of public resources between the state and local authorities, favouring territorial and social cohesion. Therefore, in short, add an article 37. -A to the financial regime of local authorities seems to us to be disqualified. The question of VAT should not have been excluded because at present there is inequality between the regions of the continent and autonomous regions, in addition to the fact that these VAT amounts are exempt for the purposes of Article 25 ( 1 ). the, so the municipalities of the regions still received less than they received. The issue of the IRS should also be settled under the Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions, amending Article 66 ( 3 ). the work, and finally, in addition to a review of the law on regional finance and the administrative statute, this work whose discussion has already begun, within the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, similar to what the Government of the Azores has done, which has demonstrated sensitivity, sense of justice and respect for the autonomy of the local power, should also meet with the municipalities and reach an agreement, not only for the transfer of funds for 5 % of IRS in 2009 and 2010, but also for compliance with the law of local finances in force, and realize the transfer of 7, 5 % of VAT to municipalities. This was not the option of PSD / CDS in Madeira, preferring to present this initiative in the Legislative Assembly of Madeira. We also expect the Regional Government to establish criteria for the implementation of programme contracts with the municipalities, as it has forgotten those who are not of its political colour, suffocating them to the maximum, falling budgets or placing legal proceedings. This has unfortunately been the stance of PSD/CDS in Madeira and we cannot compact with this behavior that has occurred in the region. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u42	It is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, through Mrs Cecilia Meireles. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS defends a policy of proximity and, above all, defends decentralization, based on the municipalities, which, in fact, this government has often promised but has been dragging. from our point of view, being respectful of local autonomy and the role of local authorities, it makes no sense to stand against each other. And in fact, what we are discussing here is a change to the financial regime of local finances, or the law of local finances, and we need to understand that the logic of financing local authorities takes into account the country's tax revenue, which is made up of the continent, two regions and all local authorities. It makes no sense — and that must also be taken into account, because there is a territorial unit that covers the whole country — that we are now changing the law of local finances, consecrating a regime for the municipalities of the continent and taking into account the incomes of the continent, and then another one, taking into account the revenues of local authorities, and ultimately taking into account the last instance that is being proposed here, that is what would happen. Therefore, from our point of view, with respect for regional autonomy, realizing the financial difficulties and often injustice in the distribution of revenue, it seems to us that it is not at the expense of the local authorities that this can be done and therefore we cannot follow this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u44	Mrs Paula Santos, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a proposal for a law of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira to guarantee the financing of local authorities in the autonomous regions and to amend the financial regime of local authorities, proposing the introduction of the following rule: "The amounts of the participation of local authorities in the taxes of the State do not include the revenue of the autonomous regions, unless that is the express will of the competent regional government bodies, as set out in regional legislative decree. Do not keep on seeking. ” The transfers from the State budget to the authorities of the autonomous regions? has been the subject of discussion in recent years. This question brings us back to the year 2009, when the municipalities of the autonomous regions no longer receive the transfer of the funds corresponding to the variable participation in the IRS through the State Budget. The National Association of Portuguese Municipalities states in its opinion that— and I quote— "the issue is all the more serious in that there is still no transfer to the municipalities of the Azores and Madeira of the participations in 5 % of the corresponding IRS in the years 2009 and 2010, worth about 10 million euros, which have been unduly retained during that period, and this must be a lack of rapid and due regularisation. Do not keep on seeking. ” In respect of the autonomy of local authorities enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, in particular financial and capital autonomy, and the principle of fair distribution of public resources between the State and local authorities, the Government must ensure compliance with the law of local finances, which, although not what would be necessary, is in force, and therefore all local authorities must receive the amounts provided for in the legislation through the State budget, including the authorities of the autonomous regions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u46	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group now speaks. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Very synthetic and even accompanying the general feeling, this morning is strange because there is a very great unanimity here in rejecting the proposals of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Realizing the various difficulties that the shortage of the Budget represents, either in the finances of the autonomous regions, or in the finances of local authorities, or now also in the finances of the country, the worst we can do is to place constitutionally planned spaces and which must be constitutionally respected, such as local authorities and autonomy of autonomous regions, against each other. That is what this proposal is for, and that is why we have distanced ourselves from it. As I said, it doesn't make sense, or, better, we can disagree about how the country's money is currently distributed in terms of autonomous regions, we can disagree about how the money is allocated to local authorities, what we can't then make stirs in laws based not on fundamental principles but on casuistic solutions that now give interest, and that is why it is done, they now stop giving interest to a particular intervener and therefore stop proposing. This is what the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira proposes, a proposal for an amendment which aims, only and only, its sole interest and not a more broad perspective of respect for the autonomy of local power and conscience throughout the country. I believe that this criticism is what we must do and therefore disagree with this initiative and we shall vote against it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u48	There are no more entries on this point in our agenda. Before we move on to the next point, I wanted to give two information to the plenary. The first is that elections continue to be held in the Senate Chamber for the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic, the Board of Supervisors of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, the Board of Supervisors of the Integrated Criminal Information System, the National Health Council and the Superior National Defence Council. The second information is about the project of a sorry vote by the unfortunate João Figueiredo, whose family requested us to add to the next week. And so we will. Let us therefore enter point 5 of our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of the Bill No 50 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Increase in deductions to the collection of costs with education and training, by virtue of the COVID-19 pandemic — Amends the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November. For the opening of the debate, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The pandemic has forced us to drastically change our way of working, how we study, consume and relate to others. The so appreciated digital transition and the need to use your tools have become part of our daily lives. in a short time, all — parents, students, workers and teachers — had to reinvent ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The use of different digital platforms forced a reorganization of their families and resources. Many families have been obliged to acquire computer equipment to meet the requirements of the new school model. On the other hand, telework has also become a reality for many parents, which, in many cases, forced the acquisition of new computer equipment to complement those who eventually existed in the family aggregate. With this legislative initiative, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira intends to recognize and compensate for the tremendous effort made by families, proposing that the computer material, such as tablets, computers, software licenses and other equipment, be deducted from IRS. We consider, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this recognition is of the utmost justice and that this proposal is appropriate and appropriate. It is necessary for the State to recognize the financial, logistical and, even, familiar efforts of many family members to adapt to the new requirements for the training of their children. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the IRS are currently collecting deductions from various expenses, such as training and education costs. This initiative proposes that the same should be seen as a general increase in deduction, with an increase for large families, and the purchase of computer equipment. Madeira is once again showing itself attentive to the new challenges and needs of families. It presents a proposal that aims to adjust fiscal measures to the current reality, thus minimizing the financial effort of families with the acquisition of computer equipment. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is no longer the first time that the PSD defends the need and fairness of this measure. Again recently, in a debate in this Chamber, the PSD argued that it is essential that the government create mechanisms to ensure that costs for computer acquisition, used in training and education, can be deductible at the IRS level. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we fully agree with this measure advocated by the Madeira Regional Parliament and, as such, we will vote in favour of this initiative. This is an excellent way to repay and compensate for the enormous effort that many families have made at a time of great difficulty, such as that of the pandemic caused by COVID-19. We hope that this time we can count on the vote of all, with the majority of this House, so that this important measure will be approved once and for all for the benefit of families. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u50	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :Like the reduced VAT rates, which we have just discussed recently, another of the mechanisms that are repeatedly presented as the great miracle solution to alleviate families or stimulate the use of this product or service is that of deductions, within IRS. Once again, however, these proposals need to be framed in a more general discussion on tax justice and the structure of the IRS. We need to be aware of something, ladies and gentlemen. Members : every time we create or increase a tax deduction within IRS, we are objectively reducing tax progressiveity and tax justice. The higher the incomes, the more impact the tax deductions have in the IRS clearance. Just think: the more than 40 % of taxpayers who, because they have such low incomes, are covered by the minimum of existence and are therefore exempt from IRS, would benefit zero of these increases in tax deductions. That is why every deduction that joins the existing ones must be well thought out and framed in the existing structure of deductions, under the penalty of overthrowing principles of fiscal justice. It is that the higher the incomes, the more financial availability there is to have higher deductible expenses. In the case of education, it is even more obvious, taking into account expenditure on private schools, which only a few can pay. Increasing the deduction to 50%, as proposed by this initiative, and increasing the number of dependents, would result in this absurdity: a large, high-income family with all five children in a private school would benefit from the IRS, facing a young couple or a single-parent family with low incomes that only one child has. This is to exacerbate fiscal injustice, as much as the intention proclaimed by the initiative may be different. To increase deductions alone, even above on the basis of criteria such as the number of dependents and not on income-based criteria, is to aggravate the huge fiscal injustice that exists today, within IRS. What is needed is the opposite, it is to make the IRS more fair, more progressive, lowering taxation on those who live from their work and have lower incomes and intermediates. It is also proposed in this initiative that computer and computer expenditure should be included in the deductible education expenditure in the IRS. Since there is, from the outset, the difficulty of demonstrating what is meant for educational purposes and what is intended for other purposes — and this is not just a matter — this proposal places within families a responsibility which is the responsibility of the Government. It is up to the government to deliver information materials to students free of charge, allowing learning conditions to all and not only those who can afford it. That is where the government has failed and what is required is that it stop failing! On several occasions, the PCP stated the need to extend the distribution of computers to students and to ensure free access to the Internet for students, as already happens with school textbooks, on the initiative of the PCP. Guaranteeing all the same learning conditions is what is required, and not proposals such as the one brought to us today, which would only benefit those with the most economic conditions, leaving out students of families with lower incomes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u52	Once again, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech. I've missed listening.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I missed you for about 10 or 15 minutes ago giving me the floor. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill that today, the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira brings to us and that has to do with deductions to IRS, related to education, is a very relevant proposal. I would like to remind you, first of all, that during the pandemic many students had to study online and, therefore, some of the computer equipment that could be optional became a first-needed asset. Then I would also like to remember that, even though the government promised, soon on the first wave, that there would be a mass supply of computers, the truth is, as we know, more than a year and a half later, that promise is not yet fulfilled for many students. And this, above all, harms those students who, in the lack of fulfillment of the promise, simply cannot follow the classes. They just need to be isolated, for example, so they can't follow the classes. The CDS, at the time of the discussion of the State Budget, specifically proposed that, exceptionally, the collection of training and education expenses should be extended to the values supported by the acquisition of computers, tablets and personal printers. Obviously, this had to do with the situation we were going through. Unfortunately, this proposal was plunged and we know that the obvious consequence of this is that there were students who could not follow the classes, do their work and progress in their education. What is now proposed goes further. It is proposed that the deduction to the value of the collection should be extended by 30 % to 50 % and that it should also be extended in order to allow the costs incurred with computer equipment. Let us hope that this proposal will be adopted. It seems obvious to us that it is necessary and we are available for any changes that have to be made in the field of expertise. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u54	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP has the floor, which today also has a wide range of interventions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira today proposes that we ensure the deductibility, within IRS, of the costs with the acquisition of computers, as training and education costs, which has exactly the same purpose as a proposal presented here by the NAP in February, and which has been dubbed, with votes against the PS and abstains from BE, PCP and ENP. With the health crisis, it became more pressing to fight the digital divide among students. Today, we're in July, but we kept what we said in February. The government had to ensure that children and young people, who went to distant schools, had the equipment needed for education, but because of the lack of such equipment, it was necessary for many families to acquire them. Therefore, fiscal policy should and should follow what this contingency was. In fact, the same happened to many teachers, to whom the government failed as an employer, because it did not provide them with the equipment they needed to develop their work remotely. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no doubt that in 2021 a computer is in fact a study tool. The reality is that in terms of tax incentives, the use of repaired and reconditioned equipment is also required in order to ensure a model of greater sustainability, greater circularity and less waste, and that is what the NAP sought to present in the State budgets for 2020 and 2021. It is a fact that the government has failed in digital transition in schools, despite being a pillar in its programmes, because digital transition is much more than the digitization of education. As part of the 2020 Stability Programme, a high value for digital transition has been approved, but the fact is that we have reached the second confinement with still very serious problems in access to these equipment, whether by teachers or by children and young people, therefore by families. The fact is that the measure proposed here will mainly cover middle-class families, who had an additional expenditure because the government failed them, not guaranteeing them access to these equipment. Therefore, in view of the proximity to the proposal that the NAP has already brought here in February, we will be following this proposal and we also believe that the Government should ensure to all professionals who, as a result of this need for telework, had to acquire equipment — professionals who are civil servants and employees in our schools — the deductibility of this expenditure, within IRS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u56	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government failed when it assured families that it would enable their children to participate in the educational activities with the computers that schools would provide—and failed several times, because it repeatedly promised and did not comply with the delivery of these computers in schools. He failed the students and failed the families. He also failed many professionals, particularly teachers, because he did not give them the means, which he should have given, to work in telework. These government failures have existed and require responsibility. And we, throughout all these months, told the government that it was not fulfilling and that this effect was harmful, because it increased inequality between families, students, had the consequence, that we wanted it not to exist, from the delays of the school year, and still had the consequence of leaving children behind, that we would hardly be able to recover in good time. The government didn't want to know. The government ignored and delayed, delayed, to the point that it still failed to meet its goal last September, almost at the beginning of the school year. The answer to this problem is what? Tax deductions? Oh, my God! That's not our perception. The problem has existed, but it is not increasing the inequality that we solve, because tax deductions apply to those who have certain income and paid taxes, and it is only paid from the national average wage, in most cases of Portuguese families. For this reason, who will benefit from these deductions now proposed or is the middle class: it is the middle-high class, in this context. For this reason, those who even had more costs, whose family income was more paid to respond to this need for adaptation to a school year at a distance, with a pandemic that forced it, continue to have no response to this legislative initiative. More: it turns the IRS Code into something even more unequal, rather than creating equality or walking towards it, as required by the IRS Code. That is why this initiative is wrong. It drinks its genesis from a problem whose responsibility only concerns the government, but does not respond to the problem and creates even more inequalities in the country. That is why we will not follow it and we want it even to be rejected by this House. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u58	Mr Matos, from the PS Parliamentary Group, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira brings us a project on an important subject. in a pandemic like this, we all realize the importance of having computer equipment, to study or to work, and we all realize the inequalities inherent to the possibility of buying these equipment. So everyone wants young people to have computer equipment, so they can study. The question is therefore not that of the substance, but that of how this project chooses to support young people in this desire. We must ask three questions about how the Legislature of the Autonomous Region of Madeira has chosen to support the purchase of computers, to know whether we are supporting the right people and at the right time, whether this is an efficient way to support people and if there is no other more effective way to support them. With regard to the first question, what we have seen — and which has already been the target of many interventions in this debate — is that, indeed, in addition to being able to benefit from a deduction to collection, it must not only have a higher income than the minimum of existence, which covers about 40% of the family aggregates, as has been said, as in addition, it cannot have already exhausted its collection of IRS with a set of deductions that already existed on this and other matters. So, actually, who we would be benefiting would be middle-class, middle-high-class families to be able to buy computers. Surely, although it is also worthy, that is not where we should place our focus and our priority. And much less that will influence the choices of the middle class when buying the computer, so that they can receive their tax participation, not just several months, as in the year following their purchase. So what I ask you is who would really be supported and encouraged to buy a computer through this measure. The second question we must ask is about efficiency. It is, in fact, that someone buys a computer, puts the expenditure on the IRS, but it is impossible to see if that expenditure, if that computer, is truly for education or training. Therefore, or we agree to be subsidizing computers for personal or professional use of the middle and middle-high class of our country, or, then, we will be controlling, unacceptablely, invading people's privacy, the way they use those computers. This is therefore also not an efficient way to support people. We have the third and final question, which is whether there is no other more effective way to support people. It is true that since the beginning of the pandemic, the government has been committed to providing computers to basic and secondary school students. And it is true that Portugal, like all other countries, has faced serious difficulties in supplying these computers. No one can placate it. As much as they pretend to be the government's fault, we well know it is the fault of those who have not been able to feed global supply networks suitable for this time. However, what we have to see is that this Government effort continues and that priority has been given to those who need the most, in particular, those who benefit from school social action. And, as if not enough, the authorities and higher education institutions have also provided this support throughout the whole pandemic course. But now, with the Recovery and Resilience Programme, which has already been approved by Brussels, we have money so that we can invest more in digital school. Not only with regard to the purchase of equipment, but also with regard to access to the Internet, the government has already legislated on a social tariff on the Internet, which will make telecommunications more accessible to all. Therefore, if we look at this measure, we find that it is not supporting the right people, nor at the right time, because it supports people with more possessions and out of time. This is not an efficient way to support people, because we have no way to ensure that these computers would be used for education and training. There are many more effective ways of reaching the same goals. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr President, with a recommendation: if the Autonomous Region of Madeira wants to support its students, its young people, in education and training, then listen to what the young people of Madeira say; support students, with discounted student passes, as it has long been desired, and the Autonomous Region of Madeira is the only region that does not have it; have free school textbooks, as the continent and the Autonomous Region of Azores already have, but which, in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, insist on noting. They truly support the students of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and do not take measures like these, which, in fact, would not be effective, efficient or fair from a fiscal point of view. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u60	Mr Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr. Miguel Costa Matos has been asking a number of questions, as if the Government which has no responsibility to move forward with this measure was not its Government, the Government of the Republic. He has tried to bring up a number of arguments, but, Mr President, this is not the first time we have dealt with this issue, on which there is a question that we are still unable to understand, and this is the question that should explain to the Portuguese. The honourable Member cannot answer, nor can he explain — or his party! — the contradiction that exists in your position. at a time of pandemic, when the country is most precise, why does the Socialist Party reject a solution that has already been used and approved and that has already been in force in 2001, 2003 and 2008? So we still don't understand why what was good in these years is no longer good at a time of pandemic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u62	I therefore advise, Mr President, your party to give this explanation to the Portuguese, because it is an explanation of the most basic justice. How is it that, at a time of pandemic, the Socialist Party is not sensitive to this matter, when the Socialist Party itself has already approved at other times these very amendments which the Parliament of Madeira is proposing at this time? Mr President, make an effort once and for all to explain to the Portuguese what it has to explain: why not move forward with this measure, which is a measure of the most basic justice for Portuguese families. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u63	There are no more entries, therefore, we can move on to the next point on our agenda. It consists of the sixth point on our agenda the general discussion of Lein's Proposals 75 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — Including new psychoactive substances in the drug law, and 101 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAA ) — Twenty-eighth amendment to Decree-Law No 15 / 93 of 22 January approving the legal regime applicable to the trafficking and consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. You have the floor to open the debate, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Autonomous Region of Madeira once again has a leading role and leadership in matters of enormous importance, such as safeguarding the public health of young people and taking measures to combat the use of new drugs. In 2012, Madeira was a pioneer at national level by prohibiting the free sale and marketing of legal drugs, determining the closure of smartshops. We would therefore like to see Mrs and Mrs. Members, to begin by praising all the excellent work done by the Regional Government, in particular by the Operational Unit for Intervention in Addictions and Dependencies, in this area, a worthwhile work in monitoring this phenomenon in Madeira and in raising awareness among young people in Madeira about the serious consequences and consequences of drug use. The region has been very alert to this problem and it was up to the point that its autonomous competences allow to find solutions. The first — followed by the Azores Parliament — is now challenging the Assembly of the Republic to exercise its powers in this area, since this is a common concern to the two regions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the increase in the consumption and trafficking of new psychoactive substances is unfortunately a global phenomenon, with a particular incidence, in terms of public perception, in island territories such as Madeira and the Azores. Every day they proliferate new drugs, created by manipulation of the structure of existing molecules, resulting in a product structurally similar, but not identical to the molecule that gave them origin. These synthetic drugs represent, therefore, an increasingly popular and worrying form of recreational use among young people. We're talking about drugs that are much cheaper and much more dangerous, often purchased by the Internet. Producers and traffickers circumvent the law and, as it does not constitute a crime, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, young people are using these substances. On the other hand, the counter-ordering regime makes it difficult for police forces to act. To deal with this problem, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the regional parliaments propose updating the existing tables and that they may also refer to the annual reports of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, in addition to the United Nations, as it is currently in force. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a reality to which Parliament cannot remain indifferent and it must urgently take care of, since the reality of daily manipulation of molecules is not compatible with delays and delay in updating the law. I recall that the last update of the law took two years to be carried out and that the six months required in the alert system are rarely met. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these initiatives are very relevant, they represent a valid contribution to extending and improving the inclusion of new substances and also an opportunity for the Assembly to be able to discuss this important matter in the field of expertise. Finding the best way to speed up the update of the tables is a huge challenge, which involves a constant fight against time, to try to be as forward as possible. It is a difficult challenge that may eventually lead to rethinking the entire legal-constitutional framework, but, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our young people deserve it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u65	We are waiting for more inscriptions, which I think will happen, since only the PSD Parliamentary Group has spoken. I suppose it is not to close this point immediately, but, if necessary, I will not hesitate. [[Pause.]] You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would begin by saying to Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa that, of course, Parliament is not indifferent to this matter. However, this is something that cannot be seen only by the lines that you have described in your speech. In fact, we are faced with two initiatives that deal with a matter which cannot fail to raise great concern for all of us. It is true that the European report on drug trends and developments of 2021 shows that new psychoactive substances are still very powerful and very harmful, which is a constant challenge for the control of these substances and for the prevention of the risks associated with them. Therefore, the intention of these initiatives, in particular the initiative of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, proposed by the PSD-CDS-PPM coalition, is unquestionable. Both the market restrictions imposed by the international conventions on clearly lighter substances, as warned by the 2019 report of the Global Drug Policy Commission, and the adoption of control measures for new highly harmful and powerful psychoactive substances, this is an issue that needs to be addressed. And the country, the European Union, the international community must find ways to actually—and we agree—to give greater speed when we are in the presence of substances of this kind. However, the question that arises in this debate is whether the way we should follow is what is proposed by these two initiatives. To this end, he drew the attention of the House to a careful reading of the opinion of SICAD (Intervention Service in Addictions and Dependencies) which is particularly enlightening. Let us bear in mind that this is the entity whose mission is to prevent additive behavior and reduce dependence, so we are in the presence of an opinion issued by an entity that has all the interest in finding good solutions to solve this problem of new psychoactive substances. It turns out that the opinion of SICAD, in addition to raising very important issues, which deal with principles of legal certainty and criminal character, alerts us to an essential issue relating to the absence of the source, the absence of the report to which both initiatives refer, which leads us to a very simple conclusion: these initiatives are inexcusable. [[P.S. Lara Martinho's Member's applause.]] It is true that the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction monitors hundreds of substances annually, the methodology in force today in the European legal system—and that is what the initiatives have not taken into account—is based on three steps: rapid warning, risk assessment and the adoption of control measures. In the Portuguese case, what has happened is to incorporate into the drug law all the delegated acts of the Commission which determine new psychoactive substances. In fact, that is what we are going to do at the next item on the agenda today, and that is what we did two months ago, so, Mrs Deputies, the advantage is evident from the initiatives that propose an update to one year. In conclusion, the Socialist Party naturally shares the concerns expressed, but believes that the solutions that have been found must be in conformity with the law and must provide legal certainty. The approach to new psychoactive substances does not dispense, and can never dispense rigorous analysis, not only at the political level, but also at the legal level, especially when criminal matters are involved. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u67	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. For an intervention, Mr Paulo Moniz of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to focus on the importance of the subject that we are discussing here, which is absolutely central to health and the harmful consequences that the use and use of synthetic drugs have been introduced, including with clinical consequences still unknown. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u69	What we are really discussing here is to criminalize synthetic drugs, is to give a criminal legal framework so that authorities do not feel powerless in their action and, by that way too, to be a deterrent to traffickers who, at the cost of unknown chemicals, merely for the purpose of profit, disgrace lives and condemn those who consume these products. There is a central importance here that is the ability, from a legislative point of view, to monitor the dynamics with which traffickers and producers change products in order to escape the law. And it is this dynamic model that we have to follow, intelligently, so that the law can be effective and so that we can be a step ahead of those who trade and bring a bad evil to society. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u70	This is the goal. The law will be mocked in the field of specialty, will be improved, the mechanisms of updating and dynamics will have to follow the reality outside of Parliament, the reality of life. But this dynamic must be contained, under the penalty of having authorities that cannot act, of consumer terms that see their life completely destroyed, before legislators who do not perceive the dynamics and urgency of the subject. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u71	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject here is a subject which we should be concerned about. The need to intervene in the protection of public health is not at stake. In fact, it is more than identified that these psychoactive substances have deeply negative impacts on health, with very serious emergencies, leading to psychotic situations of extreme seriousness delirium by consumers of these substances. I think this is not the issue that divides us. The question that divides us is how we do it, how we get there. But worse than not doing anything is doing something that doesn't work out.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u73	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u74	This is the problem with the proposals we are discussing here, both that of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and that of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. It is that, in fact, new substances arise every day and it is important to see what is the most appropriate and effective way to intervene on this problem. What is proposed is, in some ways, an automatic mechanism. However, I would like to draw attention here to the opinion of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, which states that you are not aware of any automatic control in European Union countries concerning new psychoactive substances and that it is practical by countries to assess the risks and control the substances identified within their territories. That is also what the opinion of SICAD says, which says that when we identify a substance we need to realize what risk it is that it has that substance. There must be elements, from a technical and scientific point of view, that support a decision then at the political level. And that can't be done with a logic of an automatic mechanism. Then there is another problem that also needs to be borne in mind, which is the fact that it has been said - and I will support myself from the same opinions - by the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction that the lists of new psychoactive substances are no longer systematically published in the annual reports, which is against what is also said to us through the SICAD, that is, in fact, these reports no longer have that identification. I therefore agree with the law that a document that does not make this identification will not solve the problem, which is serious, which is complex and which needs intervention. I believe it is also important to mention in the opinion of Infarmed ( National Authority for Medicinal Products and Health Products ), which refers to the amendment of the criteria for the inclusion of new psychoactive substances, stating that this should not be done under this Decree-Law No 15 / 93, but rather under Decree-Law No 54 / 2013, which specifies this set of psychoactive substances and which it is important to bear in mind. All this to say that we consider this concern to be legitimate. There is a need for intervention and action on this subject, but intervention and action is needed with instruments that are effective in order to have a translation in practice and that there is no change in the law that then effectively does not have any translation from the point of view of combating these psychoactive substances. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u75	I wanted to draw the attention of the ladies and gentlemen. Members for the votes that are taking place in the Senate Chamber, which end 15 minutes after the end of the session. I therefore appeal to those who have not yet voted to do so as soon as possible. Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposals that the regional legislative assemblies of both Madeira and the Azores bring to the Assembly of the Republic are essentially the same. They make a proposal to automatically update some tables of psychoactive substances, in particular to intervene the new psychoactive substances, and they want this update to be automatic, taking into account the reports of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. In fact, the solution that is proposed neither brings anything new nor brings anything very effective. In fact, it is not a question of criminalizing something that is completely on the loose—it is not that— nor is it a question of bringing greater effectiveness to this criminalization, as will be proved by the following point of this agenda. We are also going to vote today at the Assembly of the Republic to update these tables, which are, in fact, regularly voted in the Assembly of the Republic, because there are conventions, particularly within the framework of the United Nations, and there are European surveillance systems and delegated directives which make Portugal regularly update these tables to include new psychoactive substances and new modified molecules or molecules introduced again into the drug market, so that they are covered by crime and illegality. Therefore, what the Legislative assemblies of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores propose is not a mechanism that does not exist, they try to transfer this mechanism to another institution. But is that effective? Doesn't look like it. In fact, the opinion of SICAD on the matter is quite clear. He says, firstly, that with these proposals there is a risk—and I would quote—that 'infringing the principles of legal certainty and criminality' and then he also warns that the reports of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction'—let us remember that the proposal is that the tables should be updated through the reports of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction—are not published and much less with the regulatory framework which would allow us to analyze the feasibility of the legislative solution. Therefore, what is being proposed is an automatic update from a report that is not even regularly published, in fact, as the opinion of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction itself says. The Observatory itself says: « It is also important to say that the lists of new psychoactive substances detected are no longer systematically published in the reports ». Therefore, the proposals of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores are to automatically update the tables of the new psychoactive substances from a report which is not even published regularly, when we have mechanisms, in particular through the United Nations Convention and a European surveillance system, which allow for this regular and systematic updating. Therefore, the proposals bring nothing new and the Block believes, in fact, that can bring great confusion and even great delay in responding to the introduction of new psychoactive substances. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u77	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This question has to be seen, in fact, in a rigorous manner and with particular attention. I understand and find it interesting the various arguments we have heard here, including in this last speech by Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block. In fact, if I had to classify this initiative, Mrs. Members of the Democratic Social Party, Paulo Moniz and Sara Madruga da Costa, would say that, from the point of view of intention and objective, it would assign 18 or 20 values. I mean, the intention is the best possible. From the point of view of the effectiveness and the legal solution in particular, I do not know whether it would be possible, as has been said, to reach 10, so to speak, because in fact the criticisms of SICAD and the criticisms we have also seen on the part of Infarmed make sense. That is to say, when we automatically refer to a European list, without more, that is, without ensuring a national intervention, so to speak, we are also taking risks. And therefore we will not make this initiative impossible, but I have already said that, in our view, in the field of specialty, it will have to be worked and seen with a fine tune, the expression goes, so that we do not have the opposite effect of what we want. The effect we want is not to allow, given the technology, given the advance, to give criminal actions to create substances that are not yet criminalized and that may have a very negative influence on citizens in general and young people in particular, these substances do not escape. That is the objective — fully agreed. Whether this is done automatically, through a list that may or may not be published, that may or may not correspond to our own intention, is already different. We therefore hope, in the field of expertise, to find a better way to ensure, in essence, what we want, that is a mandatory update, possibly — not automatic, but compulsory — where this European Observatory brings new substances and new realities into this context. This is with the obvious aim of combating drug trafficking and these new types of drugs and new dangerous substances.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u79	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Rodrigues of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am making a brief statement to say three things. Members of the Socialist Party elected by the electoral circle of the Azores several times and in various circumstances have expressed their deep concern about this problem, as indeed the parliamentary group in the Assembly of the Republic and the Government itself have done, and this is an example of the initiative that follows. However, there are two aspects which are very important for people to understand, and I think they will have understood for all the interventions that preceded me. On the one hand, the solution cannot be implemented, due to practical impossibility, and this has already been well explained. Secondly, but not least, in a rule of law, we cannot criminalize behaviour outside the rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is fundamental, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u81	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u82	I conclude, Madam President. We cannot solve people's problems by violating the rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u83	The Bureau no longer registers, so we have concluded this item on the agenda. Point 7 of the agenda, Bill No 102 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Includes new psychoactive substances in the definition of drugs, there is no time for discussion, so we will proceed to the voting regiment. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the different banks preparing for the purpose and taking advantage to inform the House that Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, if it is in prophylactic isolation, will proceed to the voting by video conference. We begin by voting on draft resolution No 1376 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Luanda. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now generally vote for Law No 13 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends the code of value added tax as approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December — Exemption from services rendered in the exercise of the veterinary profession of the payment of value added tax ( VAT ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PAN, IL, Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, PS Member Marta Freitas and PSD Members Paulo Neves, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sérgio Marques and PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and CH abstentions.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 882 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Harmonises the VAT rate applicable to veterinary services. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, in favour of BE, PAN, CH, IL, non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, PS Member Marta Freitas and PSD Deputies Paulo Neves, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sérgio Marques and PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and PEV abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u84	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u85	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u86	Madam President, it is only to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on these last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u87	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now, in general, vote on Law No 14 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends the Code of the Income Tax for Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November, and Decree-Law No 413 / 98 of 31 December, in its current wording, which approved the Supplementary Scheme of the Tax and Customs Inspection Procedure—On the right of autonomous regions to the tax revenue of IRC resulting from income in their territory. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against PAN, IL and 5 PSD Members (Ilídia Quadrado, Paulo Moniz, Paulo Neves, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sérgio Marques) and abstentions against PCP, PEV, CH and non-registered MPs Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We proceed with the general vote on the Bill No 19 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — By ensuring the financing of local authorities in the autonomous regions — Tenth amendment to the financial regime of local authorities and intermunicipal entities, approved by Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current drafting. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN were rejected, votes against PCP, ENP, IL, non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and 5 PSD (Ilídia Quadrado, Paulo Moniz, Paulo Neves, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sérgio Marques) and abstentions against CH and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] I now put to the vote, as a rule, Law No 50 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Increase in deductions to the collection of costs with education and training, by virtue of the COVID-19 pandemic — Amends the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We now generally vote for Law No 75 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — Inclusion of new psychoactive substances in the Drug Control Act. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH and abstentions against the NAP and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 101 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAA ) — Twenty-eighth amendment to Decree-Law No 15 / 93 of 22 January approving the legal regime applicable to the trafficking and consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH and abstentions against the NAP and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u88	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u89	Mrs Bebiana Cunha, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u90	Madam President, it is to announce that the NAP will deliver a statement of vote on these last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u91	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u92	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u93	Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u94	To announce that the Members of the Socialist Party elected by the electoral circle of the Azores will present a statement of vote on this initiative and to which we voted earlier, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u95	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u96	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u97	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u98	Mr President, just to suggest, if accepted by the other banks, that the next three votes, on the same bill, should be taken together, in general, in the field of specialty and overall final.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u99	If there is no objection, it will be made as proposed. We shall then, in general, vote on the Proposal for a Law No 102 / XIV / 2 in the speciality and in the overall final vote. a ( GOV ) — Includes new psychoactive substances in drug definition. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We proceed with the general vote on draft resolution No 1240 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Support for triple threat in Mozambique. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] I now put to the vote, in general, draft resolution No 1328 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government continue its efforts to sensitize and mobilize international organizations and communities for the urgent need to help Mozambique respond to the serious humanitarian crisis affecting hundreds of thousands of displaced persons in Cape Delgado province. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] These diplomas fall to 2. the Commission. We will vote for draft resolution No 1302 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creation of a support line for promoters of shows, festivals and shows of a similar nature. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of PS, BE, CDS-PP, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, PAN and PEV abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u100	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u101	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u102	Madam President, I would like to announce that we will deliver a written statement of vote on the initiative that has just been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u103	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Bebiana Cunha also asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u104	Madam President, the NAP will also deliver a written statement of vote on the draft resolution that has just been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u105	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. João Oliveira asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u106	Yes, Madam President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u107	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1224 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Portuguese Government that Sintra be maintained on the World Heritage list. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 1269 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Maintenance of Sintra on the UNESCO World Heritage list. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS and BE and votes against PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] Then we have to vote on draft resolution No 1371 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — For the protection of Sintra heritage and its maintenance on the World Heritage list. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u108	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u109	Mrs. Deputy, what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u110	Madam President, I would like to announce that we will deliver a written statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u111	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u112	Madam President, I would like to place before the Bureau and the other banks the possibility of voting together on all draft resolutions relating to the West Line. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u113	Mr President, when there is any objection to this, we shall vote on these initiatives separately. We begin with the general vote on draft resolution No 746 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently provide for the development of the study of modernization and requalification of the West Line in the section between Caldas da Rainha and Coimbra. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP.]] This project goes down to 6. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 751 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary steps to modernise and requalify the West Line in the section between Caldas da Rainha and Coimbra / Figueira da Foz. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This draft resolution also falls to 6. the Commission. We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 803 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — By a fully re-qualified and functional West Line. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] The draft resolution we just voted on is low to 6. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1327 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Empowering the modernization and electrification of the West Line. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] This draft resolution thus falls to 6. the Commission. We will generally vote on draft resolution No 1339 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends investment and modernisation in the West Line. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This initiative is down to 6. the Commission. On the next set of votes, up to page 11, I would like to ask if the honourable Members. Members agree that a joint vote should be taken. [[Pause.]] With no opposition, we will vote jointly, in general, the Resolution Projects Nos 1264 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Construction of the new secondary school in Quinta do Conde ; 1279 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Construction of the secondary school of Quinta do Conde, municipality of Sesimbra ; 1309 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a secondary school in Quinta do Conde, municipality of Sesimbra ; 1322 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the secondary school of Quinta do Peru, parish of Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra ; 1325 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent construction of the secondary school in Quinta do Conde and the expansion and requalification of the School Basic and Secondary Michel Giacometti, in the municipality of Sesimbra, Setúbal district ; and 1348 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — For the urgent construction of secondary school in Quinta do Conde and for the necessary expansion and requalification of the Basic and Secondary School Michel Giacometti, in the municipality of Sesimbra. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] As all of these initiatives have been approved, the Commission is down to 8. I wonder now whether we can also vote on the next two initiatives together. [[Pause.]] With no objection, we will vote jointly, in general, the Resolution Projects Nos. 574 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government requalify the Manuel Teixeira Gomes School in Portimão and 1330 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government requalify Manuel Teixeira Gomes High School in Portimão. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Ana Passos, Francisco Pereira Oliveira, Jamila Madeira, Luís Graça and Maria Joaquina Matos and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u114	Madam President, I would like to inform you that the PS Members who have now declared their vote in favour of these two initiatives will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u115	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. These two draft resolutions are down to 8. We shall then proceed to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft resolutions Nos 1241 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Establishment of social shelter centres for the LGBTQI community +; 1280 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Creation of multisectoral support structures of local scope for LGBTI people; and 1288 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — By strengthening local responses to housing and housing access and by guaranteeing the social rights of people in the LGBTQI community + who are in a situation of social, economic and emotional vulnerability. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and the CH and abstentions from the PSD and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u116	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u117	Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u118	Madam President, I would just like to say that we will deliver a statement of vote on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u119	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Telmo Correia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u120	Madam President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u121	It is also registered, Mr. I now give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to report on some of the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa — Juiz 2, and with reference to case No 2142 / 11.8TDLSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mrs Susana Amador ( PS ) within the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u123	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You can continue, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the request of the Court of Justice of the District of Guard — Local Criminal Court of Guard — Judge 2, and with reference to the investigation procedure 97 / 20.7T9GRD, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mr Carlos Peixoto ( PSD ) within the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u125	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, may proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto — Juiz Local Criminal de Santo Tirso — Juiz 2, Case No 145 / 21.3T9STS, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Luís Monteiro ( BE ) and Mrs Maria Manuel Rolla ( BE ) to intervene in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u127	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We have thus reached the end of our votes. The Secretary of Table Maria da Luz Rosinha will now give some more information.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on account of prophylactic isolation, I should like to inform you. Deputies Pedro Cegonho, of the PS, João Pinho de Almeida, of the CDS-PP, and, as already mentioned, João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, followed this session by video conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-02.u129	I'll inform the ladies and gentlemen. Members that the next plenary session will be on 7 July, Wednesday, at 3 p.m. of the first item on the agenda is the general discussion of the Bill No 94 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Review of the Securities Code. The following point will be dealt with in the general discussion of the Bill No 97 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Framework Law of the Foundations. The third point concerns the general discussion of the Bill No 99 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1, which aims to empower the competition authorities of the Member States to apply the law more effectively and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. The fourth point provides for the general discussion of the Bill No 100 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to establish the requirements for access and exercise of the activity of technicians of the Energy Certification System of Buildings. The fifth point is for discussion under Article 242. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, of the Annual Internal Security Report. Finally, the sixth and final point shall be devoted to the debate under Article 239. the Rules of Procedure, the Annual Report of the Ombudsman. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of our session. I wish everyone a good weekend. Thank you very much. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 17 minutes.]]
