ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the authority, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin the first item on our agenda, which consists in the general debate of the Proposal for a Law No 112 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — establishes a seal tax exemption for the restructuring or refinancing operations of the debt in a moratorium. For an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes has the floor. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the bill we bring today to the debate in the Assembly of the Republic is no more than the other part of the regime we have adopted in the Council of Ministers on the restructuring of companies'credits and the moratoriums of companies with State guarantees. Within this line, what we are proposing is that in the modalities in which there is the restructuring of maturity or in which there is refinancing of the initial credit itself, in such situations, the two tax facts that may be associated may be exempt from seal, i.e. the credit itself and also the guarantee. This measure is important in order to ensure that the company moratorium regime, which has been approved, can be fully implemented and has full effect and that companies are not prevented from making such credit restructurings on the grounds that they have to pay taxes. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this diploma has been approved is confined to the subject of restructuring of companies' moratoriums. It does not deal with the subject of individual moratoriums, which was not a subject dealt with in an autonomous diploma. It is a subject which has been dealt with in a generic manner by the bank and on which I myself have already had the opportunity to make orders clarifying that in these restructuring situations, in accordance with which it has been understood by the Tax and Customs Authority ( AT ), this restructuring has a retroactive effect and, having retroactive effect, the exemption of seal tax applies, in particular to what is the tax fact of financing. I will therefore, of course, be available to provide further clarification. But since this issue has been put up in the hearings that Parliament has made, I would like to stress that this diploma which is under consideration has in mind a very specific regime and I call on Parliament to be able to approve it as quickly as possible so that companies can benefit now and the useful effect of the moratoriums is not lost. As regards the credit of individuals and the credit in general in moratorium, I have already issued one order and I will once again clarify that these restructuring operations have a retroactive effect and that, to this extent, the doctrine that has been applied over the years in the Tax Authority should apply that there is exemption from the stamp tax, except in what is the difference that may exist with respect to the maturity period. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue our work, I would like to point out that we have reached the Bureau with an opinion that we need to vote with a view to rebuilding the quorum. It should have been present before we start the work, but only now has arrived, so we will deliberate this point quickly and then resume the work. I ask Mr. Secretary Diogo Leon to please read the opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, elected by the electoral circle of Viana do Castelo : « The resignation of José Manuel Carpinteira fulfils the legal requirements, being replaced by Dora Cruz, from 18 October 2021, including. Do not keep on seeking. ” the same opinion also includes the suspension of the term of office of Mr António Topa, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, elected by the electoral circle of Aveiro : « The suspension of PSD Member António Topa meets the legal requirements, being replaced by Rui Cruz, for the period from 15 October 2021 to 15 December 2021. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The recomposition of the Far-CL plenary will be based on the contents of this opinion. Now, yes, let's get back to work. You now have the floor on behalf of the PAN, Mr Nelson Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good day to all and to all. With regard to the company credit moratorium regime, the NAP has always had a clear position. We understand that this regime is necessary in the context of the multiple-dimensional crisis caused by COVID-19, but that it should be accompanied by deep-lost injection mechanisms in companies that had a weaker economic situation. We also proposed that interest should not be capitalised at the value of the loan during the moratorium period, in order to prevent families and businesses from having to pay double interest at the end of the moratorium, but this initiative was cast with the votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and the Liberal Initiative and the abstention of the Arrival, which makes all the beneficiaries of this scheme have had this unpleasant surprise. Today's initiative is to establish justice. What the government wants is that seal-tax companies are exempt whenever it is necessary to restructure a debt or refinance that debt, a sensible measure since the economic crisis has not yet disappeared and the risks of a brake on the recovery still lie on the horizon. We shall vote in favour of this proposal. However, in the specialty, it needs to be substantially improved. What is the meaning of this exemption only for businesses? Are families that have to refinance or restructure debts not yet recovering from the crisis? Isn't it fair that they are also exempt from this seal tax? For this reason, and despite the overall vote in favour, the NAP will present a proposal for an amendment, in particular, to ensure that this very fair exemption from seal taxes also applies to families who have benefited from the moratoriums of their loans. This is the way of taxation with social justice, as the NAP has always defended.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. The Bureau is looking forward to further registrations. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government submits a bill establishing a seal tax exemption for transactions in the restructuring of debts in a moratorium. It is a worthwhile initiative, with which we agree and, in that circumstances, it will receive our favourable vote. Despite our concordance, this measure does not go beyond a palliative which aims to disguise the government's lack of support and indifference to the business and enterprising country. The government, at its disposal, presents a few miles there to be able to say that it is concerned about the economy. This isn't right now. That's six years ago. With this government it has always been this way, but it has become more evident with this pandemic. Indeed, the government has abandoned companies: there is no support at a time when energy and fuel costs rise in a galloping way; revenues face a brutal reduction; turnover is reduced; cash is dry, but the benefits that were in moratorium are already being paid and therefore very difficult times are foreseen for Portuguese business fabric. Portugal, compared with the other Member States, was one of the least helpful countries for enterprises and families in support of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u9	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u10	Which means that the Portuguese recovery effort will have to be much greater.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u11	It's true, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u12	And at the same time, we will take more time to get out of this asphyxiation in which we find ourselves. We therefore hoped that the Government would take advantage of the State budget to counter these positions in the rankings and thus initiate a strong and sustained economic recovery cycle that ultimately improves the competitiveness of our economy. It is true that what has been presented to us this week is a disappointment, an empty set, without any ambition for a structural transformation of our economy that can address social concerns, without hypothetical the future, where there is no hope that we will find any measure to support the sectors most affected by the pandemic crisis. of the three lines of propaganda dedicated to companies in the Budget for 2021, the Government has now returned to the State Budget for 2022 for three small measures. If we were bad, we'd get worse! The government is limited to something that is clearly insufficient to avoid being criticized for giving nothing. The best example of the misleading advertising of the government is finally to come to propose the end of the much-claimed special payment on account, which is welcome, but no doubt only misleading advertising because, as we know, it will not produce immediate effects on the treasury of companies, since its liquidation was suspended during the pandemic. Another example is the exercise of illusionism around the tax benefits to be attributed to those who reinvest profits. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone believe that the Portuguese business fabric, which is mostly SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) will be able to reinvest profits when we still don't even get out of the pandemic? Oh, my God! That's right! No one believes it! That is why this benefit is a mere illusion, as a measure of support for companies. Mr Secretary of State, returning to the issue that brought us here — not to be accused of wanting to advance the debate that we are going to start next Friday — I must point out that, as a positive measure, although palliative, for companies, this exemption from stamp tax is unfortunately a sin because the government has not proposed its enlargement to individuals. Moreover, Portugal is one of the countries in which the weight of claims in moratorium is higher. Thus, this situation can very likely lead to an exponential increase in the debt ratio. At the end of August they benefited from credit protection measures about 400 000 credit contracts, covering around 300 000 debtors. As such, it would be a good measure to extend the exemption from the seal tax in the restructuring operations of credits to Portuguese families. This makes all the more sense because, after all, it is this government that proclaims every day that it has a money bin and that, in social terms, no one can stay behind. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u13	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing today has to do with one of the solutions the government has found for the pandemic: the moratoriums. They were used on a very large scale and were probably the means of aid with a greater dimension. In other words, in translating what families and companies stopped paying to banks during the pandemic was the bulk of support and the greatest share of support. What does that mean? It means that much of what was resolved in other countries during the pandemic, because they had greater budgetary capacity in Portugal, purely and simply, was left for the future, because it will feel now when companies and families have to start paying for the delay. The government has come to propose something that, put it this way, is better than nothing. It follows that, in the case of public guarantee debt restructurings, companies are exempt from the payment of the seal tax. In fact, the Secretary of State said a phrase that seems to me to be well thought out, which is: « we cannot enter into a situation where restructuring cannot be done because there is no money to pay the stamp tax». Of course, yes and that idea deserves our support. However, and also following what the Portuguese Consumer Protection Association (DECO) says, I believe that this diploma can be extended, in the specialty, because this applies not only to the restructurings that have to do with companies and the moratoriums that have been guaranteed by the public, but it is a principle that should apply to all restructurings. Therefore, there is openness on our part to make this change quickly in the specialty. If it is not possible to reach agreement, there is an exemption here before there is no exemption at all. But it has to go much further than this, and that is certainly what we will propose. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u15	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The bill in question seeks to exempt from the seal tax operations for restructuring or refinancing of debt claims covered by a moratorium with public guarantee. If it is a measure that helps to remove obstacles to an exit solution for small and medium-sized enterprises that have resorted to moratoriums, we do not oppose it. But on the moratoriums, we cannot but question the government. Banking moratoriums in Portugal took on a much larger dimension than they had in other European countries. In order to address the abrupt end of the moratoriums, the CFP presented in due course an initiative that extended the moratoriums and extended the deadlines for those who resorted to private moratoriums to pass to public moratoriums if they met the criteria, and which still allowed access to moratoriums in respect of claims contracted by the end of 2020. This PCP initiative was generally approved, but then the PS and PSD removed from the scope of the initiative the housing credits that affect thousands of families and limited business credits only to some EACs (economic activity code ). And, even worse, and this was really the worst thing they did to our bill, in the specialty, decided to subject this extension to the authorisation of the European Banking Authority. By being limited by PS and PSD in its scope and in the possibility of having practical consequences, the approved proposal, and which became a law of the Republic which resulted from the initiative of the CFP, it allowed the Government and the Banco de Portugal to act, with the European authorities, to remove any obstacles to respond to the situation affecting our country in particular and to which there was a need for awareness-raising effort. Since then, in July, what contacts have been made by the Government and the Banco de Portugal? Did you even make contact? This is a good opportunity for the Government to report on this action, which was obliged by a law of the Republic, adopted here in the Assembly of the Republic, and we therefore await the response of the Government. But if you made any contact, some request, what answer did you come from the European authorities? It was also important to have this information because, although it is said that there are no major problems with the end of the moratoriums, the fact is that complaints from citizens and micro-enterprises who see themselves in a situation where they do not have to start regular payment of their benefits are still coming, because the economy and life have not yet recovered normality. We want to give here the example of a small transport company that sent us an e-mail saying: "I'm desperate, I don't know what to do. We are a few days from the moratoriums to start causing serious consequences in micro-enterprises and there seems to be no less concern about the thousands of micro-enterprises going bankrupt. I do not feel strong to fight against those who do not see or do not want to see reality». This is just one of the many companies that have brought their concerns to us. Mr Secretary of State, I ask you: if the bank fails in the solution for some of these companies or for people who have resorted to housing credit, what solutions will be given to them? Any chance of leaving the moratoriums for those who still go through difficulties is dependent only on unequal negotiation between customers and banks? It can't be like that. On the more general reality of the situation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, we also add that if the Government is concerned about the treasury of companies it should not have diverted the measures adopted in the Budget at the initiative of the CFP on the suspension of payments on behalf of the CFP and the early return of CFPs (special payment on account), seeking to use all instruments to limit this measure. As regards another measure of the State budget for 2021, which is the line of support for the treasury of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, why would the portage, which only came out in September, explicitly violates what is in the budget law itself, changing the period from 10 to 4 years and the lack of capital from 18 to 12 months? The CFP has already submitted a request for parliamentary review of the Government's decree of law, but the fact is that these manoeuvres are more examples that the Government not only delayed as it explicitly failed to comply with the measures provided for in the State budget for 2021, in particular in support of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. There is a need for a comprehensive response to the problems of the country, which also requires measures to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and their survival, often crushed by energy prices, pressure from multinationals and large economic groups, a fiscal policy that pursues microenterprises, while favouring the large capital of offshore and so-called « investment tax credits ». [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u17	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has been one of the least supportive of the Portuguese economy and families. The moratoriums have played a very important role in securing the economy and it is still not very clear that the measures to prepare the end of the moratoriums are sufficient until, in reality, there are only measures for a small number of companies, the other companies and families are left to the banking criteria and to what the bank decides to do the restructuring. The families' moratoriums have only ended in September and we are now trying to begin to understand whether or not the bank is restructuring these credits in a just way and in accordance with the interests of families. Let's figure out, however, what's going to happen to companies. It is not clear that the government's support is sufficient or that its criteria are broad enough to respond to all the companies they need. However, this diploma deals with a specific issue, which is the seal tax. We agree with the diploma itself; however, I was in doubt: it seemed to me, by the words of the Secretary of State, that the restructuring of housing credits does not pay the seal for the understanding of the AT. That is what I thought of your words, but I don't know if that's what I meant, and so it was important that the Secretary of State could explain why it is that they are exempt from taxation from the seal some restructurings and do not exempt others, which are motivated by the same financial needs and shortcomings. I believe that this is the only issue that is under discussion here and that needs to be addressed in the specialty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u19	Mr Vera Braz has the floor now for an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, I welcome you, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the past year and a half, the Government and this Parliament have faced the emergence of measures before a pandemic which has not been notified, but which has also made it clear that it would be necessary to act proactively, with speedy and robust measures to protect the future, the future of businesses, the future of employment and the future of our families' incomes. Fortunately today, with the various recommended measures, extraordinary economic support measures, we can see the resilience of the labour market, with the highest level of employment since 2009. We have even the unemployment rate with the minimum level since 2003. And, as a matter of fact, we have increased the national minimum wage. We have thus tried to counter the right speech, which is possible to increase income and, at the same time, to protect the employment and sustainability of companies without jeopardizing the growth of our economy. Mrs. Members, when talking about non-support to businesses, seem to forget such important measures as: simplified layoff; support for progressive recovery; encouragement for the normalisation of activity; acceleration of payments under PT 2020 ( Portugal 2020 ) ; the deferral of taxes and contributions; the lines of credit adjusted to the reality of the moment, with public guarantees; the greatly lost subsidies, so important, of the Support Programme; banking moratoriums, and could continue... These were and are measures to support our business fabric, in its micro and small enterprises, which represent more than 99 % of the total number of enterprises in Portugal, which we know are often family companies, and many of them depend on this income. The public banking moratorium was undoubtedly one of the most relevant measures, with direct impacts on the liquidity of companies and families, at a time of scarcity of this liquidity and of particular vulnerability. The ban on the revocation of credit lines and the suspension of payment of benefits allowed the sectors most affected by the pandemic, and which, in other words, suffered abrupt failures in their billing, "holding the boat" — we know that with great resilience to the mixture — and now allows them to resume their activity and contribute to the recovery of our economy. However, we also know that not all companies will immediately be able to recover 100 %. And, at the end of the moratorium, combined with other support, the bank renegotiating of loans will be a key instrument in supporting these companies. the banking sector must contribute to the fight against this crisis, with the availability to present solutions that enable companies to remain viable, with a debt service adjusted to their current needs. The government gave the start, aware of possible solvency risks, by establishing the Business Capitalisation Fund, with measures for the most affected sectors. One of these measures is to encourage the restructuring of financing, to give the banking sector additional security, through risk sharing, through the provision of public guarantees. What is intended here today is precisely to provide for the exemption of the seal tax for these renegotiations. And what we have to see right now is as simple as this: in a responsible and supportive manner, does this Parliament want to implement this measure as quickly as possible, so that it is on the ground, thus helping our companies? As regards the issue of credit to individuals, in addition to the explanation already given by the Secretary of State concerning the exemption from seal tax in the renegotiations of individuals, which applies with retroactive effects either in a period of lack or in an extension of the deadline, where there is no collection of seal tax, this Parliament has already taken important measures, such as the elimination, and very well, of the banking committees for these situations. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, nobody is forgetting about the individuals, on the contrary, by helping our companies, helping to maintain jobs and consequently helping to maintain the incomes of our families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u21	I ask the parliamentary groups that still have time if they wish to intervene again, because, if not, we will end this debate. [[Pause.]] With no inscriptions, we are now closing the debate. The Government, of course, called for the time still available for the closure and, to intervene, then, has the floor of Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the various questions they have raised and by saying that, of course, I understand the problem they have raised with regard to private restructuring. As Mrs Mariana Mortágua has identified, and I apologize for referring to the honourable Member — this diploma which is under discussion in Parliament has a very specific objective, which is to take care of the specific situation of companies that can restructure their credits, using public guarantees for this. This is the dimension which is currently being discussed in Parliament today and, of course, the agreement of all the parliamentary groups, and I therefore felt that it was urgent to have this diploma in force so that the restructuring of the appropriations of these companies could be done with complete tranquility. With regard to the issue of individuals, which has been raised by several parliamentary groups and which has also been raised by the DECO, in the context of the hearings here, I would like to refer again to one point, which is the following: I have already made two resolutions on this subject, throughout the pandemic, to remember that the restructuring of claims in moratoriums should be classified as a change of time and not as an extension of time, because, if it were an extension of time, we had a new tax fact and, as such, there was an incidence of taxation of the seal. What is being determined here is not an exemption, what is being said here is not to qualify these restructurings as extensions of time but, rather, as time changes, with retroactive effects, within the framework of what has been the doctrine of the Tax Authority. I believe that these directives which I have made, in two circumstances, and which I shall do again, safeguard this matter and I also believe that it is of the greatest interest of all that this diploma, in particular, which is under discussion here, comes into force as soon as possible. Of course, the ladies and gentlemen. Members will assess whether or not to make amendments, but I repeat, I do not think it will be necessary to make the amendment mentioned here. Let me also, Mr President, at this conclusion, mention the following: Mr Carlos Silva, I must say that, when he started his speech and throughout it, I was afraid that they had been wrong and exchanged, giving the honourable Member the written intervention that would be made in the discussion of the State budget proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u23	No, no! That's not happening here!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u24	Then I realized I didn't. So the honourable Member came here to talk about the proposal for a State Budget Act and spoke, with some regret, of crumbs, of palliatives. And, please see, Mr President, that you have been able to say that the extinction of the CFP is misleading advertising! Mr President, I do not know if you have noticed what they wrote to you, speaking in misleading advertising, because the special payment on account was something that, for years, suffocated micro and small businesses. It is EUR 200 million, Mr. Repeat : EUR 200 million! These are the crumbs, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Mayor was already sitting there reading the pages you're giving him... [[PSD protests.]] ... when Parliament approved the reduction of the special payment on its own account and when Parliament approved the end of the compulsory special payment on its own. And you know what you've done? He voted against. That's what they told him to do and voted against the PEC! And now that we're extinguishing it, does the honourable Member say it's just a propaganda measure? Oh, my God! No, sir! It's fiscal stability, fiscal predictability. [[PSD protests.]] From 2016 until today, we created all the conditions to extinguish the special payment on account; it is extinct and that is good news for companies and that is what Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]] Because what we're doing is responding to what the country needs. The companies had all the support that allowed Portugal today to have the lowest unemployment rate and be able to make the country's recovery, which we also do with the State budget that you so quickly have to discuss, which we will do from the next few days. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u25	This language is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u26	We will move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of Parliamentary Survey No 8 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — Establishment of a parliamentary commission to investigate the operation of the Ministry of Internal Administration and the forces under its protection in the case of a road accident involving the official car of Minister Eduardo Cabrito, mortally hit a worker on motorway A6. To submit this proposal, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal we bring here is not to investigate any possible road crime that happened in the A6, not even the painful or less painful circumstances that the accident with Minister Eduardo Cabrita revealed. This parliamentary commission of inquiry aims to ascertain whether or not there has been abuse of power, failure to separate powers and abusive interference in the various institutions of the State by the Ministry of Internal Administration. Let's remember the facts. The minister said that there was no sign on the road he was following, news denied by the Brisa-Autostradas of Portugal a few days later. The assistance took more than an hour to arrive at the location of the accident of a worker at whose funeral the State was not even represented. The distance from the place where the medical car was located was 13, 4 km and the assistance took one hour to get to the place. The Hospital do Espírito Santo, in Évora, is 13 km from the location of the accident. The doctors, contacted by the media, raised the question of whether they would have been manipulated — repeat, manipulated! — civil protection systems, as had already occurred in fires last year, where data from the civil protection system were manipulated. The GNR ( Republican National Guard), according to news that we have here and that the whole country has seen, says that they have been prevented from doing expertise to the car of Minister Eduardo Cabrita. It has been reported throughout the media that a Parliament has gone along with something as serious as the Minister of Internal Administration has the power to eventually prevent car expertise involved in the accident. It is the zero degree of impunity and the system in Portugal. What we are asking here today is a serious investigation of a minister who never wanted to speak, a serious investigation of a minister who refused, under the secret of justice, to speak of a case involving him and involving a State vehicle, which apparently belonged to a drug dealer. What this Parliament has to think and think about today is whether it can allow a Minister, impunityfully, to comment on all cases that go through his head but refuses to talk about his, which involved a State vehicle, paid with the money of the State and of the taxpayers, supported by our taxes, involved in a terrible accident that killed a person, a worker, in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u28	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u29	I will finish, Mr. President. Today, what is at stake in this investigation is perfectly identifiable: abuse of power, abusive interference and an intolerable breakdown of the institutions and their duties.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u30	We have moved on to the debate on this proposal, the first of which is that of Mr Carlos Peixoto, from the PSD. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think there is no one, inside and outside, who does not regret this accident that involved the Minister of Internal Administration's car, which was certainly involuntary and therefore must be on the edge of any political confrontation. But that does not mean, by the social alarm that the case has had, by the tragic consequences it has generated, by the prolonged secrecy to which it has been subject and by some cloudy misunderstandings surrounding the case, that we should forget and should not debate it. I think that the country needs to know why this is important — for example, how fast it was to follow the car of the Minister of Internal Administration, whether or not to exceed the speed at which he followed, a month later, the car of the Minister of the Environment and even the Prime Minister, and even remember — we should remember — the apparent insensitivity of the Minister of Internal Administration for not having said a word until today! — about how things happened, since it is no longer to deny and contradict the news that they realized that, after the accident, with a prostitute, perhaps already dead, neither he nor his driver left the car. This is unbelievable, Mr Minister must say something about the matter and must also say, as pointed out here, why it has even been stated that the works were not marked, and were subsequently denied by Brisa, who has said exactly the opposite, which gives here an idea, which is sad, of an Minister of Internal Administration, responsible for an area of sovereignty, responsible for maximum road safety, wanting 'to shake the water from the hood', invoking facts, which, if false, would desecrate it and question its stay in the position he occupies. It happens, Mrs. Members, that all this is being investigated and ascertained in a judicial investigation,... [[Exactly! By the competent authorities!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u32	... that, surely, is being done with the greatest diligence, there is no reason to think that this is not so, even if speed starts to lose a little bit.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u33	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u34	We therefore judge for hour, for hour, that it is prudent still to wait — not indefinitely, of course! — by the conclusions of this investigation, so that we can then judge whether or not there is a matter which has been investigated and dealt with and whether or not there is a political dimension which we should also deal with here from the political and parliamentary point of view. We must not forget that the committees of inquiry serve only to establish the political responsibilities of the government and the administration and not to replace the courts and investigations of the criminal police. As soon as you know the facts—and we hope it will be sooner than later—we will be here, without hesitation, to charge, or not, political responsibilities, if any, to whom you have them. It is with this seriousness and with this attitude that respect for the functioning of the institutions which the PSD is presenting in this debate and, therefore, we feel that, for the time being, it is not yet justified to set up the proposed committee of inquiry. But one thing is true, sirs. Members: where the Minister of Internal Administration is going to have to "get out of the play" and will have to explain very well what happened, there it will go, because the PSD, Parliament and the country will not allow him to keep quiet. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u35	Mr Nelson Silva, from the NAP, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have no doubt that on the road accident of 18 June, with the official car where Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, who victimized Nuno Santos, 43 years old, father of two minor daughters, are more questions than answers. In view of this, the Minister has promised two things: speed and solidarity. In fact, almost four months have passed since the accident and we still do not know facts as simple as the speed that Mr. Minister's car followed, whether or not the works were actually marked and, more serious, whether the GNR was in fact prevented from doing its work in a higher order. And at least until last month, as far as we know, the family, to whom speed was promised in the provision of legal support mechanisms, had not yet received a survivor's pension, nor paid the death insurance, nor even the funeral allowance. The Minister was therefore not as quick or as unsympathetic as he promised the victim's family, nor did he be helpful and transparent, because in the face of all the issues that have been raised, he referred to a profound silence, which now, with the meanwhile the process under the secret of justice, obviously remains. It turns out that, in view of the success of the case, the Public Prosecutor opened an investigation to ascertain the circumstances of death and also opened an investigation into the Criminal Investigation Center to Travel Accidents of the Evora GNR and the INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency ) to find out the circumstances in which the victim was assisted. It seems to us — and taking into account our confidence in the judicial system — that sufficient investigations have been opened and in which, of course, the facts will be ascertained and that they will result in due responsibilities, including policies. At the moment, we must respect the current criminal procedure and its proceedings, which we do not think is appropriate to resort to the figure of the parliamentary inquiry or to its trivialization, and we even have serious doubts that this is the right way for the family to actually see justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u37	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The death of someone of active age, young and even above work, is always a tragic event, and it has occurred as a result of an action by a car that was under the reach of the Portuguese state has an even more serious aspect. Now, using this death as a form of political throw, to us, BE, seems absolutely despicable and it seems to us clearly that is what is on the table. First question: must the Minister concerned have some kind of action on this matter? Our answer is no, you mustn't! It must allow the responsible authorities, whether police or judicial, to carry out the necessary investigations, to have no role to prevent such happening, should not have any action to distort any ongoing investigation. There is no substantiated evidence or suspicion that this has happened, therefore, as far as the political responsibility of those who are not driving the car is concerned and that in the conduct of political destinations there has not yet been any interference, it is clear, unequivocally, that the absolute void of this committee of inquiry which the Committee of Inquiry brings to the debate. On the political responsibilities of this minister in question, Minister Eduardo Cabrite, the Left Block has already said that he has political responsibilities that should prevent him from remaining in office, so we have already demanded his resignation before this event. Now, let us not mix things, because I believe that the seriousness with which we look at this problem requires, on the one hand, the respect that is due to Nuno Santos, his family and his friends, and, on the other hand, as it would always be, respect due to this tragic event compels us to have this separation of water. What is very negative to us is that the Assembly of the Republic is currently dealing with this matter, seeming to be almost suspicious of the expertise being developed, of the police and judicial investigation in progress, which we do not deal with. We don't distrust the ongoing investigation, and that seems to be what you're saying here. I will repeat: we do not trust the police who are investigating this matter and it seems that this mistrust that comes here. However, by not misgivinging this, we are confident that this investigation will have a conclusion. And if there is a criticism that we can make — and I believe that we can and should do — it is that this investigation is taking too long. This criticism must be done, and we do it. Now, we do not change turns, we do not mix things up and, above all, we do not enter the political opportunism game on such a serious issue, either for Nuno Santos, in particular, the worker who died, and for his family, for the way the State should look at a situation like this. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u39	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative also does not like to confuse the plans of judicial investigations with parliamentary work on political responsibilities, for example in a committee of inquiry. But the truth is, next Monday four months ago Nuno Santos was hit. Four months! And what we want to know in this House is what political responsibilities there are, indeed, in the concrete situations of the accident, in the way the relief was or not provided, if there was manipulation of data in Civil Protection, if the GNR was prevented from doing the expertise it wanted to do and if there are currently obstacles to an investigation that, four months later, it is not understood that it is without conclusions. So if we had a word today on any of these issues or an explanation that does not lack any inquiry into any of these issues, we would certainly not be here to discuss this matter. Therefore, for those who accuse of political opportunism who want to know what political responsibility in these cases, I would rather run the risk of being accused of being a political opportunist to be accused of being a political immobilist, not to assume responsibilities in this absolutely unbearable climate of impunity, which generates, in particular, in this case.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u41	I would like to conclude, Mr President, if you would like to do me a favor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u42	So, Mr. President, what we're going to say is that it's enough! One hundred and twenty days come to have the answers we needed and, as a sign that nothing in this country should be unpunished, we will enable this parliamentary inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u43	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, now has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we are discussing today is not whether a tragic road accident that resulted in the death of one of our fellow citizens should or should not be investigated. It is being investigated by the competent authorities to do so and that, to the contrary, it must deserve our trust. The debate we are having is whether or not there should be a parliamentary inquiry that will run into the ongoing judicial investigation. That is what is being discussed here. But it is significant that a proposal of this kind appears. Everyone agrees that any well-trained person shouldn't do political chicana with a tragic accident, but that's what's happening. Unfortunately, that is what is happening and with that we do not agree. Of course, we believe that this accident is more than regrettable, it is tragic; we believe that all the necessary research must be done, all the responsibilities that can be made; we feel that, of course, no support should be denied to the family members of the fatal victim of that accident. That is obvious in a rule of law like ours. There are authorities competent to do so and are doing so, we have no reason to doubt that. Let us hope, of course, that this inquiry will take place as soon as possible and without any protection. If there is any unlawful interference in this investigation, it will obviously deserve an intervention—of course! — but we do not accept that the Assembly of the Republic wishes to interfere in this ongoing judicial inquiry, by doing a parliamentary inquiry which would go into the field of politics what must now be in the field of justice. We do not, therefore, agree that it is a shame to seek to withdraw political-party dividends from a tragic event which, of course, we have absolute certainty, either the driver of the Minister or the Minister, will deeply regret what has happened. Therefore, being trying to use this, squeezing it as a political weapon, is unacceptable and the CFP will not deal with such procedures. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u45	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If things were exactly as described here by Mr António Filipe, I would not be in disagreement, because, in fact, we are in the face of an accident, an accident which resulted in a fatal victim, we are in the face of a tragic event, an event which surely was the driver of the vehicle and, in addition, Mr Minister, that was all they would not want. The point is to know if someone somehow politicized this matter. That's the point. And who politicized this thing, because, until then, we were just in front of a traffic accident. But look at it, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, after the accident, what do we have? First, Mr. Minister didn't come to talk, he didn't come to clarify anything and you don't understand why. Secondly, we have clear evidence that you have said at least misconceptions, or your ministry has said misconceptions, about the circumstances of the accident, in particular whether it was marked or not and what happened at that time. And that is where the matter is no longer, however serious it is, a mere road accident, to gain, to some extent, a political dimension, so to speak. It is clear that we, the CDS and myself, are completely averse—and there we agree with what has been said by the generality of the benches—which we could call a kind of 'parliamentary sensationalism', that is to say, to look for what social communication seeks to explore to turn into parliamentary debate. We are completely against this practice or against that idea. However, it is also not true, as has been said here, that Parliament has clearly passed by this area. We ourselves, the CDS Parliamentary Group, immediately submitted a request asking the essential questions in this area, namely how four months after the accident no one still knows how fast the vehicle followed, whether the compensation was paid or not, and whether, as the Minister said, it acted well or not in terms of compensation. In fact, there are many things here that neither the Government nor the Minister wanted to clarify. Having said this, what would I say? Finally, I would easily list five or six reasons for resignation in relation to Minister Eduardo Cabrita. We all know them, it's not worth repeating. Five reasons for resignation, of which this would never be the first, because, in fact, their responsibility in this matter is, in my opinion, relative. Therefore, this investigation can never be about the accident, what happened in the accident, about none of it. The investigation cannot be about that. But there is one thing that could obviously be investigated: whether the ministry, the State, the government, or whether or not they tried to squat, hide, prevent the clearance of what happened, and that is already political matter, it can already be a matter of political inquiry, and that alone can be on the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u47	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u48	They say to me: "But that's not right, because there are investigations going on. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u49	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u50	It is not the same, even because there are indications — there are indications — that there was a deliberate action to hide this matter from public opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u51	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u52	There is evidence that the government did not want to respond. Therefore, on our part, with regard strictly to the performance of the Government, the instructions given to the security forces, the clearance of the post-accident events, we will not imperil the possibility of carrying out this investigation, as in general we do not do in such or similar investigations. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u53	For an intervention, Mr Francisco Pereira Oliveira of the Socialist Party now has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The subject under discussion is the claim of the arrival of a parliamentary commission of inquiry to the action of the Ministry of Internal Administration and the forces under its protection in the case of a road accident involving the official car of the Ministry of Internal Administration, fatally hit a worker at A6, Mr Nuno Santos. First of all, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to extend my sincere condolences to the victim's family for such an unfortunate accident. However, this question has already been raised in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the basis of the imposition of a request from the Czech Republic, which was rejected by a very large majority on 21 July and the decision taken has been clarified. It was found that the issue should not justify a hearing by the Minister of Internal Administration before 1. the Commission, where more the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. There is no other intention to insist on this matter than that of obvious political use involving the death of a citizen, which is to be regretted. This attitude of arriving demonstrates total disrespect for the memory of the victim and his family. The facts in question shall be duly ascertained by the competent authority for this purpose by conducting an investigation into the accident, which is in secret of justice. What remains of all this is the attempt to once again get some public exposure on a subject which has already been the target of the rejection of the Assembly of the Republic through 1. the Commission. in this sense, and because it is perfectly adjusted, the Socialist Party cannot follow this requirement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u55	The Bureau asked the parliamentary groups and Members who still have time to intervene. [[Pause.]] This is not the case, and we are closing this item on the agenda. Mr. André Ventura has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What you heard here today was something that the country will understand well. An enormous and blatant complicity with the abuse of the State in an accident that has victimized a person. This is the greatest symbol of the complicity of a system that can't give even honor and memory to a victim of an accident in which a minister of this government followed in a state car, paid with the money of all those out there to see this commission of inquiry being approved. That is the truth today, in this Parliament: that here is a huge complicity... [[PS protests, hitting hands on the tops of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u57	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's create conditions to hear who's intervening. Mr André Ventura, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u58	A car that followed more than 200 km/h, according to all the indications we have, of the Minister who protects road safety, a vehicle, still without any capacity to provide rescue, of a Minister who has the protection of civil protection and road safety, leaves a Parliament with open hands to say that injustice follows its investigation. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not at stake if what happened was malicious or diligent. What is at stake is whether or not the State has abused its position and whether or not the Minister has abused its position to interfere with the investigation, silence inquiries and prevent further investigations from being carried out. This is what Parliament should do and should not come up with stories that we are going to undermine justice when they have proposed, a few months ago, the creation of committees of inquiry with investigations in the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is useful for some things, but not for others; it is all useful to save Minister Eduardo Cabrita from his responsibility, which he has to face before this Parliament. I quote, for future shame, what a doctor who was on the scene said about this accident: "Someone at the Urgent Disease Guidance Center will have modified the data initially sent in the activation form, correcting the location of the occurrence. Something very strange happened. Do not keep on seeking. ” In view of this, we say: “We are not going to run the investigation! In the face of such a serious case as this, in which a person died, in which someone changed data that were placed in the civil protection system, we passively say: "It's okay, let this pass. Do not keep on seeking. ” One day, perhaps 20 years from now, when we have some conclusions, another Parliament, which we will not, will say: "What a pity that we did not investigate this! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u59	Would you like to conclude, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u60	Today, it is our responsibility, this House, because it is not a criminal responsibility, it is political responsibility: did this minister interfere or not in a very serious case that victimized a person? This should be our main role and responsibility today: to face those who voted in us and elected us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u61	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we now turn to the third item on our agenda, the discussion of draft resolution No 639 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Regulation of leisure pools integrated into tourist enterprises and local and domestic accommodation. To make the presentation of this initiative, Mrs Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the years, the tragedy of drowning in pools has marked the life of many families, and in Portugal, the second cause of accidental death in children, with most accidents occurring with children up to 2 years old and in pools without protection. In recent years, it has happened with dozens of children, but even though it was only one, it is dramatic situations that, in addition to the loss of this life, have difficult consequences to imagine in the lives of the families involved. Although, over the past decades, a path has been made to legislation that has helped to reduce the number of deaths due to drowning, it is emphasized that there are studies showing that physical barriers have an efficacy of 95% in preventing child drowning, since they cause delay in access to water, if there is distraction on the part of the adult, giving more time to act. But there is still much to do to avoid accidents and save lives, lives that have not yet begun. There are own, specific legislation and regulations for sports pools and inserted into water fun enclosures, where rules are laid down in terms of licensing, operation, construction, safety and supervision. However, for pools integrated in tourist enterprises, the legislation regulating their installation and operation refers only to technical standards, which in particular establish only obligations relating to relief and surveillance. Legislation on other matters, including supervision and counter-ordering, remains to be published. However, this does not solve the problem of swimming pools installed in local accommodation units, since the legal regime applicable to them is omitted in this respect. This also happens with private pools and inserted into condominiums. We are thus faced with a legal vacuum and a lack of concrete rules that need to be resolved expeditiously, with a view to the establishment of legislation extending to all types of swimming pool, in relation to construction and safety, in particular the obligation to exist a seal so that access to the pool is not as easy for a child as it has been claimed for many years by the Association for the Promotion of Child Safety (APSI ). In other words, it is proven that physical sealings are effective, but they still do not have a mandatory character. Therefore, this is a matter that should concern us all and to which no one should be indifferent, because it is urgent to create specific regulations for swimming pools inserted in tourist enterprises and local accommodation, without forgetting the domestic swimming pools. The Children's Security Promotion Association, which has been dealing with this topic for at least two decades, sent an open letter in 2019 following which The Greens held an audience with that association. In 2020, APSI was received by the Secretary of State for Trade, Services and Consumer Protection, who has taken on the topic and commitment to involve other State Secretaries, but so far has not resulted in any action with practical effects. Therefore, in view of the relevance of the problem, the Greens bring the proposal to the debate so that the Government will promote the necessary procedures with a view to the urgent establishment of specific regulations which will allow the necessary legal vacuum to be completed, to take the necessary measures with a view to the urgent establishment of specific regulations for domestic swimming pools, in conjunction with the bodies working on the subject, and to intensify awareness-raising campaigns that contribute decisively to reduce the number of drownings, accidents and mortality in Portuguese pools, regardless of their type. We call on the various parliamentary groups to accompany us in this demand to the government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u63	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, the Left Block Parliamentary Group wants to congratulate the ENP on the subject and on the project that brings the debate, because, in fact, when we talk about the rules in question, we are talking, above all, about security, especially for children and young people. Besides, this is not a new theme. Unfortunately, every year awareness campaigns are being carried out on the number of drownings and how to put an end to this serious problem. For example, DECO has been making several warnings about the fact that the core of this issue is very simple. It is that the existing legal framework is still insufficient, or empty, for most types of swimming pools. But this has not been the only organization to warn about this problem. As has already been mentioned, the Association for the Promotion of Child Security itself, APSI, brought this Parliament more than once, this issue and possible solutions to this issue. In addition, the World Health Organization itself has also been defending the use of vertical barriers as one of the most effective measures, which can reduce the probability of drowning by 50 % in children aged 4 / 5 years, since it is at this age that more drownings occur. In fact, in Portugal, in the last five years, there have been an average of 10 children drowned per year. So we are actually talking about a relevant problem. If it is true that there are already legislation and regulation at the level of water parks, for example, it does not happen with pools integrated in local accommodation, tourism or even personal use, which ultimately do not have any vertical protection obligation, which, in other countries, has had a positive impact on the reduction of this type of accident. That is why what is being proposed by the ENP seems to us to be the most basic common sense, since, over the years, it has become evident, unfortunately for the worst reasons, that it is necessary, in fact, to create regulations that allow us to lay down clear rules on safety measures in the construction, installation and monitoring of pools in the places already identified, so we will follow the draft resolution of the Greens. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u65	The PSD intervention is followed. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Sofia Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I should like to leave a greeting to the Green Group for its initiative, draft resolution No 639 / XIV / 2. a. The presentation of this initiative reveals an enormous critical awareness of this problem, which, moreover, the PSD accompanies. The drownings in pools are the second largest cause of accidental death in children in Portugal and most of these accidents occur with children up to 2 years old, precisely in pools where there is no type of protection. This is therefore a very sensitive matter, which must deserve the attention and acceptance of the Government, as the Green Parliamentary Group recommends. However, I would like to leave a note to this parliamentary group and to all the others, which is the following: there is no data that allows us to conclude that children are more or less victimized according to the contexts where these pools are inserted. We have no data to conclude that, unfortunately, more children succumb in the context of swimming pools in tourist enterprises or local accommodation, or in pools in domestic context. This is an absolutely cross-cutting issue to all the contexts of the swimming pools, so it is not solved with mere cosmetic operations to the specific regime of local accommodation, or with specific changes to the regime applicable to tourist enterprises. The problem we are discussing is completely cross-sectional to any of the contexts, whether in local accommodation, water parks, tourist enterprises, domestic pools or pools inserted into condominiums. The lack of regulation, a tighter and a less tighter one, does not happen only in tourist undertakings or in local accommodation units. This legal vacuum extends to domestic pools. in a large part of the countries of the European Union, the installation of pools requires strong security measures. Today, we know that these security measures have already proven to have a very high degree of effectiveness in preventing these accidents. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the merit of the Green Group's initiative, the solution seems to us, however, short: it is not on the side of the specific regulation for each of the contexts, particularly in local housing and tourism, but on the other hand, for example, the creation of a general rule, which solves the problem upstream and downstream. The problem is solved upstream, making, for example, the process of implementation of the most demanding pools, contrary to what is happening today, tightening the technical construction rules. The problem is solved downstream, imposing prevention and safety standards applicable to pools that already exist, regardless of the context where they are inserted, requiring that, perhaps in those most exposed to children, be implemented any of the four types of safety systems: sealing, shelter, coverage or even alarm. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD Parliamentary Group is, of course, available to debate this matter and if we can prevent more families being victimized by this scourge we will do so. That's exactly what we're here for. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u67	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the Greens for the question brought to plenary and for the determination to put it at the heart of the debate, something that has been, moreover, claimed by various entities, even because the awareness itself, the fact that we are talking about this is a way to prevent it. In fact, numbers show us that drowning continues to be the second most common cause of accidental death in children in Portugal. The Children's Safety Promotion Association points out that, in the last seven or eight years, 10 children up to 18 have died by drowning, on average, and the pools are in fact the water plans where these accidents occur most. This annual average continues to be alarming, but has been evolving by taking measures, by greater regulation of the swimming pools and by greater safety requirements, especially in sports pools or water parks. For pools integrated in tourist enterprises there are technical standards that are insufficient to prevent accidents. The question is another dimension if we talk about local accommodation, which has particularities, as is obvious. This is a reality that has had a huge expansion and has set up a legal vacuum. For local swimming pools there is no regulation. It is in this sense that the ENP points to a set of urgent measures, which the CFP accompanies. It is intended to create specific regulations to cover the legal vacuum that persists for local swimming pools, as well as to establish concrete rules for pools integrated in tourist enterprises and their regulation of supervision, in conjunction with the bodies working on the subject. Obviously, there must be specific rules. We're not going to demand that there is a swimmer-saver in the local accommodation like in the other swimming pools. There is also the question of the need to raise awareness and increase awareness campaigns. We therefore welcome these measures and will follow them. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to leave a final note. The country has made a long way to create living and safety conditions for its children and it is good not to forget that between 1972 and 2008 Portugal has recorded a 94 % decrease in its infant mortality rate, which is one of the most significant developments, especially if we consider that during fascism our infant mortality rate was 137 % higher than today's average of the European Union. This evolution was, of course, due to enormous social developments resulting from the April Revolution, and to the creation of maternal and child care for all, integrated into the National Health Service ( SNS ). The truth is, if we have to protect the SNS and we must continue to guarantee conditions for maternal and child health, we must not fail to take those concrete and simple measures that actually make the difference. If 50% of accidents are avoided by a physical barrier that puts itself in access to the pool, then that is done. It is so simple and we can reduce infant mortality. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u69	For an intervention, you now have the floor, on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sofia Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, a draft resolution on the regulation of leisure pools integrated into local and domestic tourism and accommodation enterprises is under consideration. On this issue, it is now important to state that the right to protection of health and physical security is an absolutely essential value that can at any time be devalued or regarded as a minor concern for the Socialist Party or, I have no doubt, for any other of the benches. Having said that, there is a need to make some considerations on this draft resolution, which we think are important in order to clarify some points which are mentioned in it. Of course, with regard to swimming pools integrated into tourist enterprises, it should be noted, firstly, that there are already specific regulations applicable to its installation and operation, as provided for in Decree-Law No 39 / 2008 and Ordinance No 358 / 2009. Secondly, in the area of safety, the law also establishes the need to ensure adequate surveillance, through a technician duly identified and empowered to do so, and also the provision of information and rescue equipment defined by the Institute of Relief to Shipwrecks. Thirdly, tourism enterprises are periodically subject to classification audits, whose competence, as will be the knowledge of Mr. Members, belongs to Tourism of Portugal. Of course, in these audit actions, recommendations are made to tourist enterprises to take appropriate measures to reduce accidents in swimming pools. Finally, fourthly, in the context of the fight against the pandemic, the Clean & Safe seal was created and rules for tourism enterprises were also defined, namely the strengthening of the hygiene of spaces and equipment—and here included pools, of course—and the implementation of procedures for prevention and control of infection, as well as compliance with the rules of occupation, permanence and physical distance between users, in accordance with the rules issued by the Directorate-General for Health. Furthermore, in the case of the pools, it was even required to strengthen the periodicity of updated records of the results and tests of water quality and the mechanisms of disinfection of the water circuit. Of course, all these actions have competed for a reduction in the number of accidents, for which it has also contributed to greater collective awareness in the adoption of protective measures, as referred to in this draft resolution. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, although this specific regulation is not applied to swimming pools in local accommodation, there is room for analysis of the opportunity to introduce specific rules on swimming pools safety into the law. Furthermore, there is already an improvement in the legal arrangements for the operation of local accommodation establishments in order to ensure that such establishments, if they have a swimming pool, must first meet the applicable installation and operation requirements and at all times present adequate hygiene, cleaning, conservation and operation conditions; and, secondly, maintain adequate information and safety equipment and equipment available to their size, depth and characteristics. Another point presented in this draft resolution is related to domestic swimming pools. in these cases, we know that the construction of swimming pools is carried out under the determinations of the legal regime of urbanization and construction. At the same time, we also know that there are specific standards that define the safety requirements for the design and construction of swimming pools, being the same priorities and indispensable. This draft resolution also points to the importance of intensifying awareness campaigns that contribute to the reduction in the number of drownings, accidents and mortality in national pools. On this point, and to conclude, we have no doubt that active participation in awareness-raising campaigns to avoid accidents related to the use of swimming pools will always be justified and will always be appropriate, taking into account the collective reduction plan, for a zero index, of the number of accidents and deaths due to drowning. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[At the moment, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u71	Mrs Sofia Andrade, I congratulate her on her first intervention in plenary. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nelson Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the ENP initiative, which, for us, makes a lot of sense. According to DECO, only in the last five years have 10 children died on average per year drowned in Portugal. Most of these deaths occurred in pools and with children up to 2 years of age. We agree that it is essential to fill the legal gaps that currently exist and that leave pools of local accommodation, tourist enterprises, condominiums and privates unregulated. However, the NAP argues that the Government must be ambitious in implementing these recommendations if they are adopted. First of all, making the placement of seals compulsory, depending on the fact, has been claimed for several years by the Association for the Promotion of Child Safety. There are studies showing that physical barriers have an efficacy of up to 95% in preventing child drowning, particularly because they delay their access to water if they are able to escape adult surveillance and give more time to act if necessary. In most Anglo-Saxon communities, the use of seals is already mandatory. Secondly, we are challenging the Government to be ambitious as regards the criteria for the environmental sustainability of the swimming pools themselves. It is essential that the principles of the circular economy are effectively integrated in the construction of infrastructures in Portugal. Water efficiency should also be encouraged and, where possible, the use of biological pools. To conclude this intervention, following the benefit of having heard several interventions on this point, I just wanted to say the following: this proposal — and the NAP read it very carefully — if it sins for something, it sins by excess and not by default. But in these cases, I think it is good sense that we all agree that, in order to avoid unnecessary deaths, it is better to sin because of excess than by default, and so we all regret that in the future we have more children drowned in the pool context, whether in tourist enterprises, whether in local accommodation, be private. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u73	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by congratulating the ENP Parliamentary Group on this initiative. Obviously, the concern that lies at its core is a concern that we all subscribe to, because the mortality associated with swimming pools accidents is obviously serious, has had several public episodes that lead to everyone worrying about it. What is under discussion is a draft resolution and we must therefore do the debate in view of what we are actually discussing here. The ENP makes a set of recommendations to the Government on the regulation of this matter, which has to do with rules, supervision and all the conditions under which this type of equipment — swimming pools — can work. And he pays special attention to local housing and tourism. We subscribe, as I said, the concern. We are available and committed to the creation of rules that can effectively protect the lives of children — and not only, but especially children — by avoiding these accidents, and we must also — and we must say this here — concern that these rules and requirements are balanced. Therefore, let us not take advantage of the fact that there is a concern, there is a need for protection measures to make this type of intervention extremely complex, bureaucratic or even costly. Having this balance, we are available to vote on this initiative, provided that the rules are effectively the most appropriate to protect lives and not only contemplate the introduction of bureaucratic complexity factors or even financial burden. It happens that, when discussing a draft resolution, we do not know how the Government will achieve it, so we find that, given the importance of this matter, it should be, when the Government understands to legislate on it, the target of parliamentary scrutiny, so that we can have a concrete debate on each of the measures. This does not harm the ENP initiative in any way. Therefore, we will be able to do so, taking into account the care we have referred to here. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u75	To close the debate, Mrs Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today brought the debate to a greater extent on a path of protection for children and young people who die drowned so that this does not happen again. It is noted that swimming pools are the places where more deaths occur due to drowning of children and young people, followed by beaches and finally rivers, banks and lakes. I don't know very well about what the PSD Member who used the word has doubts, but it seems to me that of course these situations occur on specific sites, and that is not hidden from anyone. These drownings occur in built water planes, when adults are more relaxed and less attentive to the behavior of children. That is why we already know that there is a process that protects children and has viability, but it is not understood why some parliamentary groups have indicated doubts about a more specific regulation of this matter. If you think spending money protecting a pool is more important than protecting a life, maybe we're not talking about it. We cannot fail to note that there is a general requirement that must be met by manufacturers, sellers, licenses and even owners themselves, because when an area with swimming pool is opened, all conditions that prevent serious risks to health and its users must be guaranteed. Therefore, different rules are also needed, because we are not going to have a guard in a private pool, as it is obvious. Here the question will be a proper regulation for each problem. So what solves this issue and what may decrease, to a great extent, this number will be applicable rules, which we do not have at the moment. In view of this situation, several entities have already issued recommendations for the granting and construction of swimming pools and their operation in safety, however they are not mandatory, and that is why we must work urgently. The project that we bring here today and that we are going to vote will not save, by itself, no life. But it would be strange if the Assembly of the Republic were to face a drama that continues to knock, unexpectedly, at the door of so many families. I therefore hope that all parliamentary groups will vote in favour of this project. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u77	We move on to the fourth point of our agenda, with the discussion, together, in general, of the Bills Nos. 858 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Amends the limitation period for sexual crimes against minors, 961 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH) — aggravated criminal frameworks deprived of liberty for conduct that configure crimes of sexual abuse of children, sexual abuse of dependent minors and sexual acts with adolescents, 962 / XIV / 3. a ( CH ) — Amends the Penal Code in Article 164. the ( Violation) aggravating the criminal frameworks applicable to subjects who meet the requirements of this criminal conduct, considering crimes against freedom and sexual self-determination as crimes of a public nature and 968 / XIV/3. a (PAN) — Extends the time limits for the prescription of crimes against the sexual freedom and self-determination of minors and the crime of female genital mutilation by amending the Criminal Code. You have the floor, to present your project and to intervene in the debate, Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our Penal Code provides for a period of five years of prescription for sexual crimes against minors, which begins at the age of 18. This period is, however, distorted by reality. Sexual crimes against minors have particularities that do not coincide with such a short period of time, in particular that they do not respect the time the victim needs to become aware of what has happened to him and gain the strength needed to denounce him. Already in adulthood, when the victims feel finally prepared to do so, this possibility is sealed, resulting in the impunity of the aggressor, impunity which allows them to continue sexual abuse of children. For example in the United Kingdom, Canada or the Netherlands there is no limit to denounce these crimes. In Germany the deadline is 20 years after the victim reaches 30 years of age, in France it is 30 years. In fact, we do not understand such a sharp difference in our legal order for others, nor do we understand such a short limitation for such a crime with such particular and devastating characteristics for victims, so we propose that the limitation period be changed for 15 years and that it only begin at 35 years, which is the average age at which victims feel available to denounce the abuses they have suffered in children.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u79	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u80	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the projects presented here have two distinct objectives: the worsening of criminal frameworks and the consecration of the public nature of the crime of rape. It is important to bear this in mind: in Portugal only 37% of those convicted of sexual crimes actually fulfill prison time. We have a suspended penalty applied to around 58 %, which means that the vast majority of sexual aggressors leave the hand courts tied, often under the law itself. in this the Arrival is suspicious, because the APAV itself (Portuguese Association of Victim Support ) says, and I quote, that "there is a discrepancy, today, punitive between heritage crimes and very personal crimes, such as sexual freedom, and therefore makes sense an adjustment of penal frameworks. Do not keep on seeking. ” In addition, even if we are discussing the issue, which we recognize today, of the public nature of the crime, with good arguments on the one hand and on the other, which Portugal has the lowest rates of complaint and complaint in this area, it is estimated that 3 in 100 000 will do so. Counting on a crime in which black figures are very high, we are talking about a large majority of victims who never present any complaints or complaints. That is why it makes sense that, in this picture, there is an adjustment of criminal frameworks and, at the same time, a consecration or a post-reflection of the public nature of this crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u81	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In France, at the request of the country's bishops, a report has recently been published by an independent committee, which has investigated, for almost two and a half years, the sexual abuse of minors in institutions of the Catholic Church over the last 70 years. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than 330,000 children were abused, i.e. 13 children per day were victims of sexual abuse. The overwhelming majority of complaints identified by researchers are prescribed, thus being punished. Only 22 were sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Beyond the awareness that we have to do in combating these crimes, it is necessary to give many people the courage to denounce the terrible abuses that they have suffered over the years. We therefore mention this research and this report as an example of the importance of the political debate on the adequacy of the regime for the prescription of these crimes in Portugal. We know today, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that men who in children or young people have been victims of such crimes only report it at least 20 years after abuse.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u83	Madam Member, I am sorry to interrupt you, but at the moment there is a great noise in the Chamber. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen standing up and talking about feeling or leaving, please. Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u84	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the current legal framework, although the prescription never occurs before the victim perfuses 23 years, these crimes can still be prescribed for many years. We are talking about crimes that are extremely traumatic to the victim, that affect him in all sectors of his life and that lead to the revelation of these crimes in more than 63% of cases, at least one year after abuse and, most of the time, many years later. It is therefore more than urgent to ensure a legal framework capable of protecting these victims. And that is why the NAP is proposing, once again, the modification of the time limits for the prescription of crimes against the freedom and sexual self-determination of minors and the crime of female genital mutilation, in order to ensure that, when the victim is under 14 years of age, the criminal procedure never ceases before the person reaches 40 years, and that, when he is over 14 years of age, there is a limitation period of 20 years, which, according to our proposal, can never occur before the victim reaches 35 years. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is at least reasonable, and yet it is far from being what is already the reality in other countries. We therefore hope that today the other political forces will follow this NAP initiative by remediating a previously lost opportunity to safeguard and defend victims of child abuse. With regard to the initiatives presented, we note that, at the initiative of the Arrival, with regard to changing the nature of these crimes to public crimes, it cannot be done and accepted without more and the arrival forgets the proper mechanisms to safeguard the best interest of the victim. On the other hand, the draft law of the Arrival, which amends the crimes of sexual abuse of minors, in the policy it proposes, describes the abuse of minors in cases of manifest confidence, authority or influence over the child, or of another situation of particular vulnerability of the child. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unbelievable how this proposal succeeds in reducing the protection of our children against these types of crimes, which, of course, we could never follow. And we hope that neither the NAP nor any party that lives in a state of democratic law and respect for human rights will do so. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u85	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Sexual crimes against minors revolt the whole society and produce in all of us a justified emotional reaction, in an attempt to seek any form of justice. The subject is even more serious than many people think. RASI ( Annual Internal Security Report ) 2020 shows that, in arrests for crimes against sexual freedom and self-determination, most had to do with the crime of child sexual abuse — almost triple of those arrested for rape. Even more shocking is that half of the child abusers were relatives of their victims. However, reality can be even more horrifying, because this is only the portrait of known crimes. There will be many others, in which fear or shame prevent children from reporting. It is therefore so important to create conditions and give time so that an adult who has been abused in childhood can, when he feels prepared to do so, seek and find justice. We will therefore vote in favour of the NAP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, who intend to increase the limitation period for these crimes. We will do the same with regard to the increase in penalties proposed by the Arrival. We agree with the sign of social condemnation given by the increase in the criminal framework, fully aware that justice is not equal to revenge and that increasing penalties is not, in itself, a panacea. Finally, we will vote against the other project, if it can be called so, of the Arrival, which is a proposal that amends an outdated version of the law, does not alter one of the frames that says you want to change and makes the crime of violation of public crime (which the Liberal Initiative has already proposed), but does not provide for the provisional suspension of the process. There is a minimum quality of legislative initiatives and it deserves a round lead.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u87	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the time of shame— Francisco said, the Pope, about the revelation of the immensity of the crimes of sexual abuse of children involving those responsible for the Catholic Church. This is the time of shame for all of us, believers and not believers. It is time to be ashamed of the phenomenon of sexual abuse of children, to have it where it belongs, to involve those involved. Everyone, starting with those who have institutional leadership responsibilities, has the irrevocable duty to create conditions for everything to be, seriously and tirelessly investigated, so that society as a whole creates strong antibodies against these practices and removes them from the thick silence of intimate dominations, and that all children and young people are protected from it, which is repugnant. Here we are taking on this responsibility, without apologizing to what others do or fail to do. Let us do what needs to be done — that is our duty. The reality of sexual abuse of minors is identified in their chain of horrors. One in five children is a victim of sexual violence, the Council of Europe recalls. In the overwhelming majority of cases, the perpetrator of the crime has with the child a relationship of intimacy and self-confidence that he has with a family member or a caregiver. Invariably, sexual abuse is hidden by a silence of lead, which is both of shame itself and of imposition of others. And this silence subsides itself perversely, making the trauma remain as a condition that persists, insidious. This is the portrait we all know. We know the immensity of the hidden numbers of this reality and this concealment itself is part of reality. It is therefore necessary to put all the courage and all the clarity in creating conditions so that what it costs so much to reveal can actually be revealed and judged to redign the victims in their eyes and to prevent successive generations of children from becoming victims of their vulnerability. This is where a reflection and a position on the prescription of these heinous crimes lies. We understand that prescription is not the elimination of a crime; it is the assumption that, as a rule, the passing of time makes sense to the fulfilment of a penalty, whether from the point of view of general prevention, or from the point of view of special prevention. Let us also understand something else: the punitive impulses, which are themselves of a society focused on punishment and not on the recovery of perpetrators of crimes, are primary instincts that do not resolve anything. It cannot therefore be, by obedience to an exacerbation of a criminal right of revenge — such as that which guides the two projects of the Arrival — that should be accepted to extend the time limit for the prescription of crimes of sexual abuse of minors. It is only because of the fact known, and most importantly, that this is a crime which, by its prolonged ability to mix the victims, usually takes decades to gain conditions, within the person who suffers it, to be brought to light by the day. That is why — and no less than that — we should, from our point of view, extend the limitation period for crimes of sexual abuse of minors. It is to allow the victims to have the internal time needed to overcome this trauma that blocks them and can reveal the violence to which they have been subjected, and thus create, as delicately as determined, the conditions for the indispensable impulse of the victims to the complete investigation of the truth. Of course it is important not to create distortions in the criminal system, such as those mentioned in the opinions of the Superior Council of the Magistrature and the Superior Council of the Public Ministry. But this is a matter which will be properly regulated in specialist work. Let us therefore have the courage to take this important step now in behalf of all and for the benefit of the victims, to combat the inhumanity of these crimes and the silence that perpetuates them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u89	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to look at the bills that have gained more reflection. The prevention and fight against crimes against the freedom and sexual self-determination of minors are, of course, done at school. It begins in education for citizenship, where children and young people learn, not any ideology—as the parties who want to increase penalties and wager in a criminal right of revenge—but their autonomy and freedom and how to protect themselves. When sex education is attacked in schools or education for citizenship, the prevention of sexual abuse of minors is also being attacked. As the Secretary of State John Costa said — on a subject that is so distressing, already mentioned here, by Mr José Manuel Pureza — "in all schools, sometimes against winds and tides and against ultra-conservative sectors, sexual education is promoted which includes the students' awareness of the fact that others have no rights to their body and ways of asking for help". It is also in school that all professionals who work with and accompany children are required to register criminally, as part of what attests their ability to work with minors. It is at school that any signs that may indicate situations of abuse are detected by teachers and technicians and are referred to the CPKJ (protection committees for children and young people). It's at school that we have to have psychologists able to provide the safe environment to report possible abuses. Criminal law, of course, acts when crime is not avoided and there is no doubt that sexual abuse of minors is a particular form of violence and, as such, has a specific treatment. We know that the perpetrator of the crime is often someone close and apparently known, so the actual disappearance of the child molds the criminal norms in force. The issue of the limitation period for sexual crimes against minors, as well as the crime of female genital mutilation being the minor victim, is not, of course, a closed theme, but the concrete solutions that exist and that, like all the subjects, can be discussed at all times, will have to take into account the harmony of the criminal system, proportionality and equality. Concretely, it does not seem acceptable to us, for example, as it is pointed out in the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry, that a criminal procedure in which a crime of murder is involved, which protects the legal good of human life, is deemed to be extinct by prescription within a time limit of a process which, for example, targets the practice of crime of sexual importation of which is a victim of a person under 14 years of age, so long as the identification of the author of the first occurrence at a time close to the preclusion of the prescribed period. In sum, there must be harmony and coherence of the system in weighing the change of the prescribed deadlines concerned. Arrival brings together a debate on sexual crimes against minors a bill that repeats the criminal revenue that is easy and counterproductive already discussed several times, increasing the penalty for the crime of rape and changing its nature to public crime. We do not tire of repeating the following: it is clear that all reasonable people will have the same level of rejection for a crime as that of rape, but what it is about giving all power to the State and reducing the victim's will to zero, which, even against his will, could be the victim of a horrible crime and then suffer the so-called "procedural pain". In domestic violence it is understood, and well, that the victim is continually in a situation of subjugation, so it is a public crime, but in the case of the crime of rape there is a free and autonomous person who must have a free space of decision as to the process, and in fact the Public Prosecutor's Office can already act by motu itself in certain circumstances. We cannot, on the one hand, be constantly begging for the autonomy of the woman and, on the other, for defending the appropriateness of her will—of our will! — by the State. This is the type of bill, as we have so often stated in relation to similar initiatives, which does not prevent a single crime nor respects the integrity of the victim, in this case, of course, the older person. We keep where we've always been. On all issues, we are looking for solutions that are necessary, appropriate, fair, weighted and harmonious, aware of the role of criminal law and committed to the immense action that was before. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u91	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing at this point bills that have different contours and that should not be completely placed in amalgam. Once again, we are discussing proposals that are aimed at hardening our criminal system in relation to certain types of crimes. These bills, notably those of the Arrival, in addition to a technical inconsistencies that have already been mentioned, go in a recurring sense, which is that the problems of crime are solved by the hardening of penalties, but it is more than demonstrated, for centuries of experience, not only national, but global, that it is not. It is not the countries that wage in the so-called "criminal law of revenge" which reduce crime with that attitude. We know that there are still countries that unfortunately keep the death penalty and that is not why they have lower criminality rates, not even on the contrary. Experience demonstrates exactly the opposite and therefore this path is absolutely irrational, but it continues to be done. I would say that we are among those who defend the application of justice by the courts in the name of the people and those who defend the application of justice by the tabloids in the name of the mob. in this dilemma, we know which side we are on: we are on the side of the application of justice in the name of the people. This idea of society's better defense not by irrational hardening of penalties, but by other kinds of measures that are aggrieved in the reintegration, crime prevention and defense of society, more effective by this way, does not exist because it is considered that crimes are less heinous.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u94	When, more than 150 years ago, the death penalty in Portugal was abolished, it was not because it was considered that the crimes that previously served as a death penalty were less heinous. That was not why it was thought that society was more decent, more civilized and defended itself better than crime by adopting another policy of criminal law. We therefore consider that this is a recurring path, with which we do not align, which is to consider that if we increase the penalties vulvaously, crime and crime, we will solve any problem of crime. We're not going! Then there is also a question that has to do with the deadlines for prescription and which will perhaps raise another discussion. We consider, of course, that this is a perfectly legitimate discussion, which, in this respect, it is also possible to find diverse examples from other countries, but I believe that we must also take into account something that Mrs Isabel Moreira recently mentioned, because it is not by chance that a legal order has a criminal law and not just a sum of a gross criminal law. There has to be some balance and we can't make recurrent and frequent minor reforms of the Criminal Code, a little to the taste of emotion. If there was now a crime, which is very serious and has touched us, are we going to increase the prescription deadlines? Oh, my God! If there was a heinous crime, which filled all the pages of the newspapers and moved us, is that why, hot and under emotion, we will vehemently alter the criminal regime, aggravating one sentence here and another there, increasing the deadline for registration? Oh, my God! There must be a logic, a balance, in a system that is intended to be credible and that is expected of a civilized State, a rule of law. Therefore, without prejudice to the fact that the discussion on deadlines must exist — as we have done about the crimes of corruption, for example — and that it is legitimate to do so, we believe that this discussion should not lose sight of the fact that in a rule of law there has to be a balance to equalize these issues. This discussion should not be made hot, should not be made to the taste of emotion or tow of tabloids and therefore all advises caution. Not that crimes are less heinous, but because a society that wants to be decently equated in a decent, reasonable and adequate manner what their criminal system is. That is why we are not going to follow the legislative initiatives under discussion. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u95	Mrs Márcia has the floor Steps to an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative initiative presented by Mrs Cristina Rodrigues and the other initiatives that we have appreciated force us to reflect on a number of plans and perspectives: the unity of the criminal system, the purpose of the sentence and the time limit of the victim's complaint. As regards the first plan, the coherence of the Portuguese criminal system requires us to be cautious whenever we intend to change the penal frameworks and the deadlines for prescription. With regard to penalties, they have the dual purpose of punishing those who commit illegal acts and of contributing to the resocialization of those who commit them. Thus, the first thought that will matter will be in the sense of realizing whether a young person between 18 and 23 years of age will have enough maturity to, consciously and freely, decide that a criminal procedure against whom he has committed a crime against his sexual freedom and self-determination while still a minor. Is it possible, at 23 years of age, to talk about these naturally traumatic episodes or is it necessary to prolong this period? This is the fundamental question of this reflection. We cannot be, and we are not, indifferent to the fact that we are facing horrendous crimes and that they deserve the highest censorship. They are very serious crimes, and therefore they must also be punished in proportion to that gravity. We're not indifferent either, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to the examples of other legal systems which adhere to the same values as Portugal. We are talking in particular about European legal systems such as Spanish, French, English or German. As well as the opinions which have been sent to the Commission, we cannot fail to mention Prof. Figured Days when referring to the following: "It is obvious that the mere course of time on the practice of a fact does not constitute a reason for everything to pass as if it had not happened; however, it is, under certain conditions, sufficient reason for the criminal law to refrain from intervening or implementing its reaction". We are talking about a reaction to the criminal system, but we are also talking about, and above all, protection that should be taken into account by other victims of crimes as serious as those we are dealing with. That's why, sirs. Members, we believe that the reflection should be made with high weighting and balance between the structural principles underlying the institute of the prescription and the severity of these illegal penalties. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, to achieve this balance, the PSD is, of course, available. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u97	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are dealing with a set of projects which are in some way grouping two to two. Some are essentially dealing with the issue of the prescription of crimes against the sexual self-determination of minors—so what we could classify, in a broad sense, as pedophilia crimes—and others have different solutions on the same subject, in particular with regard to the worsening of the applicable criminal frameworks. The first thing to say is that, from our point of view, what can be done with regard to these crimes is important and relevant, because, with regard to criminal law, and even though I agree with the interventions that have called for weighting, balance and to which we cannot, at some point, have some crimes below, for example, of murder, admitting all this, I think today—as it has been remembered, and well! — the sensitivity to these crimes is enormous and society must have a political signal on the question of pedophilia. The CDS, moreover, has a history in this matter. We were the first to propose the serious penalty of use and access, for example, child pornography. At the time, unlike other opinions, we were advocates of the so-called "pedophiles list", so to speak. What is at heart at stake in the projects of Mrs Cristina Rodrigues and the NAP is the extension of the prescription. As Mrs Márcia Passos has said, for example, I believe that, in the field of expertise, this matter can be seen because, in fact, the school of prescription makes sense. by conjugating, as Mrs Cristina Rodrigues does, the extension of the prescription to 15 years with the beginning of this period to 35 years, we will have to consider whether the sum of the two things may or may not be excessive, although agreeing with her idea and her intention. We will therefore vote in favour of this project, which, moreover, having the same intention as that of the NAP, seems to us even clearer, more perceptible and easier to apply. As far as the projects of the Arrival are concerned, I wanted to say that the one who foresees the increase in the criminal frameworks does not shock us nor raises any major problems. We think it's an appreciation, a sign of the gravity of these crimes. The CDS has done so in other matters and we will therefore have no difficulty in accompanying it. The other project raises more doubts, for various reasons, either due to technical insufficiency, as has been said and demonstrated by several benches, or also because by making the crime public, we can effectively have the perverse effect of not protecting who must be protected, which is essentially the victim. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that, in fact, what public opinion and social communication often tell us, particularly in relation to pedophilia victims, is that they need time, they need maturity, even to reveal their history, a traumatic story that sometimes happens for decades. Therefore, it makes sense to extend the limitation period. Everything we do to combat pedophilia is positive and well done, from our point of view. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u99	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to say that, when it is proposed to increase penalties in this dimension, we are not talking about any criminal right of revenge, we are looking at the Portuguese legal framework and the European legal framework. Portugal has the lowest penalties in this area, not only in abstract terms, but also in practice and in its practical application. We can continue here, Mr António Filipe, with this conversation, some with the tabloids, others with the mob, and, for 40 years, everything remains the same and we never change what is needed. The truth is that sexual crime in Portugal is a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u101	Shame! Speak Spanish!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u102	Only 50% of the convicted are effective penalties and the PCP is waiting for some miracle to happen from here some time. At least we give a signal. These are serious crimes. Today, there is a punitive dissociation in Portugal between heritage crimes and crimes of a sexual nature. This is evidence and we either correct it or we are complicit with this dissociation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u103	To conclude this debate, you have the floor, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One in five children is a victim of sexual violence and most do not share their history of abuse. When some come to do it, it's too late. It is an obligation of this House to legislate in order to protect children and the current regime only protects aggressors. We realize the importance of the limitation deadlines, and we agree with them, however, that different situations cannot be treated in the same way, under the penalty of having a great deal of injustice. The particularities of the crime of sexual abuse of children justify a differentiated regime. Moreover, this is a crime in which recurrence is common, i.e. it can be repeated with different victims and therefore the importance does not decrease over time, nor does the need for prevention so little. in a study conducted with convicted abusers, they revealed that the actual number of abuses was far greater than the crimes they had been convicted of. On average, abusers had abused one to 40 children, with an average of seven children per abuser. In addition, in accordance with Article 3. that of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, Member States have an obligation to take the necessary measures to ensure that intentional behaviour such as sexual abuse of minors is punished. If, in the Portuguese case, there are judicial investigations that are not initiated by the complaint to be made after the assessment of the limitation period of the crime, then the Portuguese State is not fulfilling that requirement. The Supreme Council of Justice, in its opinion on this draft, states that:'Considering, on the one hand, the seriousness of the crimes in question and the general feeling of rejection that they cause in the community and, on the other hand, that the will to denounce is not formed, in this type of crimes, as in the other offences, requiring the victim, more often, of a broader period of maturation, we have nothing to object to any extension of the prescribed period, even if adopting a formulation more in accordance with the basis of the prescription institute'. Justice is done in the courts, but it begins in this plenary, so I ask you to open up, in the discussion of the specialty, if you work in order to reach a consensus, but this requires your approval today, and it is in your hands.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u105	We reach the end of the fourth item on our agenda. of the fifth point, is the budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2022, without time allocated for discussion, so we will move on to the sixth and last point of our agenda, to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I remember that today we have to register again for quorum verification. I therefore ask the services to prepare the electronic registration system. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u106	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u107	Mr. Deputies, I suppose it's because you can't register.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u108	Mr. President, no, it's just that I'm registered on my monitor, but I'm given as a failure to the others. So there's a computer problem. For all purposes, I am present.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u109	We note you're here for quorum purposes. In any case, there are many Members and Members. Members who were present during the morning and who are not yet registered, so we will wait a little longer. But it is a fact that all parliamentary groups and Members were advised that today we would return to the traditional model of two registers: one presence and one quorum.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u110	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u111	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u112	Mr. President, I have just been informed that I do not appear as a registrar.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u113	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u114	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u115	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u116	Mr President, I am not able to register either.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u117	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u118	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u119	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u120	Mr. President, I have the same problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u121	Are you having the same problem? This, indeed, after a few months without this operation, becomes a little more complicated to return to traditional habits. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u122	Mr President, it is only to need that in some places I appear as registered and in others as absentee.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u123	It's just that one thing is the presence record, another is the quorum record. The honourable Member must register for quorum purposes. [[Pause.]] Well, I think we've had enough time to register for quorum. We cannot continue to paralyze the work of the plenary, either by the honourable Members. Members are not in good time in their seats, either because of failures of the electronic registration system. Therefore, 205 presences of Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, with the honourable Members. Members who informed us that they were not able to register, it is natural that more Members are present. Let us therefore proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. We begin with the Vote Project No 682 / XIV / 3. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, BE, PAN, and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Unfortunately for the death of Fernando Echevarría, I ask Ms. Maria da Luz Rosinha to read. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, even by the nature of the vote that will be read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last October 4th, at the age of 92, Fernando Echevarría. Born in Spain in 1929, son of Portuguese father and Spanish mother, Fernando Echevarría Ferreira came to Portugal in 1953, to have to exile for political reasons in Algiers and Paris, before returning back to Portugal, already in the 1980s. Antifascist since very early, Fernando Echevarría joined the Revolutionary Action Movement ( MAR ) and the Patriotic Front of National Liberation (FPLN), before founding, with Emídio Guerreiro and Hermínio da Palma Inácio, the LUAR ( League of Unity and Revolutionary Action). But it is above all in poetry that Fernando Echevarría leaves his brand, through a solid and singular work, of a strong philosophical dimension, as his studies of Philosophy and Theology in Spain denounce him, at the seminary of Astorga, which in his own words had as ‘ direct recipient the people. ’ from his vast work, stands out Introduction to Philosophy (Pen Club Poetry Prize in 1982), Unfinished Work (Mello Breyner Andresen Prize in 2007 ), About the Dead or Place of Study, Prize of the Portuguese Association of Writers, in 1991 and 2010 respectively. Fernando Echevarría was also distinguished with the degree of Officer of the Order of Infante D. Henrique, in 2007 by the President of the Republic of Aníbal Cavaco Silva, and with the Medal of Cultural Mérito, in 2019. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Fernando Echevarría, recalling the unique figure of contemporary Portuguese poetry and addressing to his family and friends the most sympathetic condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u125	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just taken, we will keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u126	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u127	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u128	To announce that I will present a written vote on this vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u129	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Ventura also asked for the floor. Is it for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u130	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u131	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote No 676 / XIV / 3. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Congratulations on the provision of the national selection at the 2021 World Championship of Canoeing and Paracanoeing Speed. I inform you that the leaders of the Portuguese Federation of Canoeing Vitor Félix, Antonio Félix, Antonio Correia and Ricardo Machado, the trainers and members of the national technical team, Ivo Quenderera, Rui Fernandes, Manuel Correia and Luís Alves and the athletes Fernando Pimenta, medaled athlete, with his wife and daughter, Margarida, Messias Baptista, Norberto Mourão, Alex Santos, Hélder Silva and Ruben Boas. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue our votes. We will now vote on the deliberative part of the Voting Project No. 684 / XIV / 3. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, and non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Congratulations on the results achieved by the national cyclists at the European Championship of Elite Tracking. I am aware that Mr. President of the Portuguese Federation of Cycling, Delmino Pereira, is present at the gallery. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[General applause, stand up.]] We then proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1464 / XIV / 3. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to London. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 974 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — Amendment to Law No 2 / 3013 of 10 January and Law 53 / 2015 of 11 June with a view to strengthening the public interest, autonomy and independence of regulation and promotion of access to professional activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u132	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u133	Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u134	Mr President, the Statute of Members determines that, with the possibility of creating a conflict of interest, this should be expressed in accordance with Article 22. o. So, and even if the registration is suspended at my request, I would just like to participate in the Assembly of the Republic which is part of the Order of Advocates.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u135	Mr President, it is perhaps an extensive interpretation of this matter and, with due respect, we will not waste time with it. Let us therefore vote on this initiative, in general. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and the CH and abstentions to the PSD, BE, PCP, PEV, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall then proceed to the general vote of Bill No 983 / XIV / 3. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Promotes access to regulated professional activities, eliminating unjustified restrictions on access to these professions and setting limits on the duration and organization of internships. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the CH.]] This diploma then falls to 10. the Commission. We now have, for the vote, a request from the IL, on a bass basis to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a 60-day vote of Bill No. 988 / XIV / 3. a ( IL) — Regulatory reform of professional public associations, combating corporateism and democratizing access to professions ( first amendment to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Therefore, this bill drops, for 60 days, to 10. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 989 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — Establishs the mandatory remuneration of professional internships for access to the exercise of the profession by making the first amendment to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January and the statutes of various professional public associations. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, BE, PAN, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD Deputies Alexandre Poço, André Neves, Margarida Balsairo Lopes and Sofia Matos and PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and ENP.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u136	Mr President, I would like to announce that I and the PSD Members who voted in favour of this diploma will deliver a statement of vote on it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u137	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will generally vote for Bill No. 891 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Approves the framework law on the allocation of the population category. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, CDS-PP and CH.]] This bill goes down to 13. the Commission. We then have four requests for a vote. I wonder if we can vote together on these same demands. [[Pause.]] If there is no objection, we shall vote jointly on the requests, submitted by the authors of the initiatives, to the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory, without a vote of 60 days from the Bills No. 872 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extension of the deadline for the conversion of the Urban Areas of Ileegal ( sixth amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September ), 880 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — prolongs the deadline for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis ( sixth amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September ), 913 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — prolongs the deadline for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis ( sixth amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September ), and 967 / XIV/ 3. a (PAN) — The extension of the deadline for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis and guarantees transparency mechanisms in this process, amending Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] All these diplomas are down to 11. the Commission. We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 44 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Replies the payment values of the supplementary work for all workers ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code and the 10th amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June approving the General Labour Law in Public Functions ). [[The vote was taken in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and PS, PSD and IL abstentions.]] This bill that we just voted down to 10. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 955 / XIV / 3. a ( BE ) — Resets the value of additional work and compensatory rest, deepening the recovery of income and contributing to job creation, proceeding in the public and private sectors. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and PS, PS, CH and IL abstentions.]] The diploma therefore falls to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u138	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u139	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u140	Mr President, I would like to inform you that the PSD will present a statement of vote on these two drafts about the additional work we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u141	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 80 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — For an integrated family recovery and birth policy. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH and abstentions against the NAP, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1451 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government develop and implement an integrated national strategy to combat loneliness as a strategic public health axis. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and PCP abstentions.]] We shall generally vote for Law No 112 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — establishes a seal tax exemption for the restructuring or refinancing operations of the debt in a moratorium. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote of Parliamentary Inquiry No 8 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — Establishment of a parliamentary commission to investigate the operation of the Ministry of Internal Administration and the forces under its protection in the case of a road accident involving the official car of Minister Eduardo Cabrito, mortally hit a worker on motorway A6. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and votes in favour of CDS-PP, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Then we vote on draft resolution No 639 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Regulation of leisure pools integrated into tourist enterprises and local and domestic accommodation. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 858 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Amends the limitation period for sexual crimes against minors. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP, PEV and PS Bruno Aragon, Cláudia Santos, Filipe Neto Brandão, Isabel Alves Moreira, Joana Sá Pereira, Jorge Lacão, Marcos Perestrello and Sérgio Sousa Pinto and PS and PSD abstentions abstentions.]] Therefore, this diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We then vote in general on Bill No. 961 / XIV / 3. a (CH) — aggravated criminal frameworks deprived of liberty for conduct that configure crimes of sexual abuse of children, sexual abuse of dependent minors and sexual acts with adolescents. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 962 / XIV / 3. a ( CH ) — Amends the Penal Code in Article 164. the (infringement) aggravating the criminal frameworks applicable to subjects who meet the requirements of this criminal conduct, considering crimes against freedom and sexual self-determination as crimes of a public nature. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and IL were rejected, votes against CH and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions against PAN and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u142	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u143	Mrs. Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u144	Mr President, I would just like to inform you that we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u145	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 968 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — Extends the time limits for the prescription of crimes against the sexual freedom and self-determination of minors and the crime of female genital mutilation by amending the Criminal Code. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP, the PEV, the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Bruno Aragão, Cláudia Santos, Filipe Neto Brandão, Isabel Alves Moreira, Joana Sá Pereira, Jorge Lacão, Marcos Perestrello and Sérgio Sousa Pinto and PS and PSD abstentions.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2022. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] At least we already have an approved budget. [[EB, PCP and PSD Members' rice.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 1201 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government undertake epidemiological and environmental studies to determine the impact of Alves Ribeiro de Loures production. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We will vote for draft resolution No 1335 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — For the relocation of the industrial unit of bituminous masses located next to the neighborhood of San Francisco, in Camarte, Loures. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and IL abstentions.]] Mr Nuno Fazenda is asking for the floor. It's for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u146	Mr President, it is to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on these last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u147	We will generally vote for Resolution Project No. 1299 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — By preserving the natural, historical and cultural heritage of the Petrogal neighborhood in Loures. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP and IL.]] This draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We will generally vote on draft resolution No 1369 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government preserve the natural heritage of the Petrogal neighborhood. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP.]] This draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u148	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u149	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u150	Mr President, it is to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u151	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for draft resolution No 1372 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By creating the natural park of the Aveiro region. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the abstention of the IL.]] The Bureau was informed that we can now proceed to the joint vote, in general, of draft resolutions Nos 1390 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Requalification and rehabilitation of the Second School António Inácio da Cruz, in Grândola, 1407 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the Second School António Inácio da Cruz, in Grândola, 1413 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By performing requalification works of the Second School António Inácio da Cruz, Grândola and 1447 / XIV / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the Second School António Inácio da Cruz, in Grândola. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] These draft resolutions are down to 8. We will now vote for draft resolution No 170 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the publication of the general comments of the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralisation and Local Power on draft resolutions Nos 1382 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop the studies and procedures necessary for the formalization of a proposal for the creation of new NUT II covering the NUT III of the Tejo, Medium Tejo and West, for submission to the European Commission at the beginning of 2022, within the framework of Regulation ( EC) No 1059 / 2003 and 1423 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government equalize the creation of a NUT II covering the current NUT III of Tejo, Medium Tejo and West. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 272 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Need to resume the requalification works of the High School John of Barros, Corroios, and 290 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures for the urgent completion of the works of the John de Barros High School. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions No 668 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently resume the rehabilitation of the secondary school of the Sertan High School Assembly, of the municipality of Sertan, district of Castelo Branco, 694 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government ensure that the re-qualification works of the High School of the Sertã are resumed urgently, 710 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — For the urgent re-qualification of the secondary school of Sertan and 1028 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the completion of the requalification works of the High School of the Sertan. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions No 671 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently promote the rehabilitation of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz, of the municipality of Ovar, Aveiro district, 684 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 259 / 2018 and requalify the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz, in Ovar, and 708 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — The urgent rehabilitation of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz ( Ovar ). [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Raul Miguel Castro and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions No 692 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently promote the expansion and rehabilitation of the Secondary School of Port of Mós of the Grouping of Port of Mós, this same municipality, Leiria district, and 721 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government urgently, programme, agenda and carry out the necessary works to expand and requalify the secondary school in Porto de Mós. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 702 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the Basic School 2, 3 July Brandão, in Vila Nova de Famalíão and 737 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government requalify the Basic School 2, 3 July Brandão of Vila Nova de Famalíão. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 738 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the secondary school building of Póvoa de Lannoso and 749 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 257/2018 and requalify the High School of Póvoa de Lannoso. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 872 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent and immediate requalification of the EB School building 2, 3 / S Pedro Ferreiro in Ferreira do Zêzere, 874 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to the immediate requalification of the Basic School 2, 3 and Secondary Pedro Ferreiro, Ferreira do Zêzere, and 885 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Recommendation to the Government to re-qualify the Basic School 2, 3 and Secondary Pedro Ferreiro, in Ferreira do Zêzere. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolution No 343 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government urgently re-qualify the School EB 2, 3 Mário de Sá Carneiro, in Loures municipality and disclose the schedule of asbestos fiber removal interventions in school equipment. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolution No 750 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently promote the retraining of the Arganil High School. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 592 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the approval of the national strategy for the prevention and treatment of anemia and consecrates November 26 as the National Anemia Day, 680 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Consecrates the date of November 26 as the National Anemia Day and recommends that the Government adopt a national strategy for the prevention and treatment of anemia, 691 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government study the creation of a national strategy on anemia, 720 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a national plan to combat anemia and 731 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of a national strategy for the prevention and treatment of anaemia. [[When the vote was taken, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will also proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 103 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System and the regime applicable to the organisation and functioning of the courts. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We also have the vote on an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which I would like to ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u152	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Pedro Alves of the PSD to give written testimony as a witness within the scope of the relevant cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-15.u153	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus reached the end of our agenda today, but we only need to announce our agenda for the next plenary session to be held on Wednesday, 20 October. Thus we will have in the first point the preparatory debate of the European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister [ under Article 4 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the construction process of the European Union ]. In point 2, we will have the opinion of the Bill No 113 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 789 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 laying down rules on the exercise of copyright and related rights applicable to certain on-line broadcasts by broadcasters and the broadcasting of television and radio programmes and amending Directive ( EU ) 1993 / 97. In point three, we will take note of the Bill No 114 / XIV/3. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 790 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on copyright and related rights in the digital single market and amending Directives 96 / 9 / EC and 2001 / 29 / EC. In point four, Decree No 128 / XIV / 2 shall be re-appreciated. a — Allows the use of drug-assisted procreation techniques through semen insemination after the death of the donor, in cases of expressly consented parenting projects, amending Law No 32/2006 of 26 July ( assisted medicinal procreation ). Finally, in point five, the re-evaluation of Decree No 167 / XIV / 2 will be made. a — transposes Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 713 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on combating fraud and counterfeiting of means of payment other than cash by amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, Law No 109 / 2009 of 15 September 2009 approving the Cybercrime Law, and other legislative acts. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 46 minutes.]]
