ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 35 minutes.]] As you know, today's session will be particularly difficult because we have many votes, so we cannot waste more time on opening up the work. Before we enter the first item on the agenda, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will give some information to the House. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is only to announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 1027 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) and 1028 / XIV/ 3. a ( PS ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then start the first item on the agenda, which is based on the evaluation of the final report of the Possible Commission for the monitoring of the implementation of the response measures to the COVID-19 pandemic and the economic and social recovery process. For an intervention, Mr André Pinotes Batista, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Solidarity and recognition — these are the words we wish to welcome the contribution of the Portuguese so that, after two years' time, we are one of the countries best prepared to deal with the impacts of the brutal pandemic that has come down on our civilization. We are a people of unique, resilient temper like few and with a ability to lean on the adversity that will hardly find parallel. We have demonstrated once again that we do not accept the vaticinity of failure that some have seemed tempted to test. For those who believe in a strong social state, it is worth invoking that the SNS (National Health Service), public school and social security did not fail in these times of uncertainty and trial. And by helping me with the wise words of Mrs Susana Amador, rapporteur of this Commission, «they have constituted themselves as a source of hope and trust ». instead of pain and austerity, the PS chose cooperation and solidarity as a response. in this context, it is the most fundamental justice to highlight the essential role of DGS ( Directorate-General of Health ), the task force of vaccination, specialists, IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity), health professionals, the Armed Forces, civil protection agents, local authorities, trade unions, among so many other entities that we could highlight here today. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, solidarity and recognition are even the words that the Government of the Socialist Party, led by Antonio Costa, and this Parliamentary Group have chosen as a pity in combating the most overwhelming pandemic crisis of the last 100 years, a health, economic and social crisis that required the design and implementation of innovative and exceptional measures, those measures that we apply and we will continue to apply with speed, proportionality and scientific support. Solidarity and recognition are even the exact terms that need to be repeated in the discussion of the final report of the Possible Commission, whose work has lasted since September 2020 until now, being abruptly interrupted by an irrational political crisis in which the opposition has inexplicably plunged our nation. Four hundred and twenty-eight days, sixty-four hearings and two hearings later, heard more than seventy-four personalities and numerous members of the government, we can make a solid balance, necessarily intermediate, to the extent that the pandemic is not overcome. In the field of health, the SNS was targeted at a successive investment boost of more than EUR 2400 million, a path which the State budget for 2022 intended to continue to strengthen. But the Budget has fallen! The Portuguese vaccine coverage, in the order of 90 %, prides us and, above all, places us at the top of the world in preventing more serious manifestations of the disease and deaths as a result. We didn't fail in the health sector. The government spent EUR 3, EUR 4 billion on paid social support, including exemptions and tax exemptions. The fact is that, as evidenced by the study by the European Commission SURE, without these support our country would be in the arms of more than 250 000 unemployed and, rather, in a path that deserves recognition, we reached an unemployment rate of 6, 4 % below the pre-pandemic register. We have also not failed in the economy and in social support. In public school a set of measures was ensured during confinement. But I stress, by symbolism, the welcome of the children of the essential workers, a measure that demonstrates the solidarity we have taken. Public school didn't fail. And the Portuguese know that if the social state has not failed and will not fail in response to the mitigation of the pandemic impacts, it is now urgent to turn the accident into new opportunities. The PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) will play a major role in this context, in particular in leveraging public investment and in implementing structural reforms that will enable us to respond to the challenges of digital transition, climate change and the fight against inequalities, without neglecting the virtuous and transparent application of funds that we have so well been able to negotiate on the European front. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we know that the right does not like the PRR, so strengthening the governance conditions of the PS will even be the best guarantee that this national design will be fulfilled: our recovery. Finally, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, addressing you to highlight the role that the Assembly of the Republic has played in this whole process. It is fair that in his person, Parliament has been able to meet the institutional, legislative and supervisory challenges that have been required of it and has contributed to furthering our democracy. We believe that physical and emotional sequelae in people, as well as the real scale of impacts on society, are not exhausted in the context and need more time to analyze them, so we suggest that this Parliament, in the next legislature, resume these work. We continue to strive to recover the economy and guarantee the future with less uncertainty and to trace new horizons of hope in adversity. I ironically end with this idea: the right, which hastily wanted to anticipate failures that have never been realized, is shown today to the country unable to define its own leadership. But the essential thing for us is that it is even strengthening in the PS the only way to confer predictability, stability and confidence in the future. Let's go together in solidarity with the Portuguese. This is the way we've followed and we'll keep going. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u5	Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Possible Commission for the Monitoring of the Implementation of Response Measures to the COVID-19 Pandemic and the Economic and Social Recovery Process, the balance sheet of which is presented here today, ended before time, the result of the current national political situation. The dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic has forced the premature closure of these work, and therefore this report we are presenting today is not the ideal report, nor is it the report that we wish to report on the tight parliamentary timetable that everyone has made. However, we would like to underline our balance sheet of this Commission's work and, of course, the result of our scrutiny on the government's performance in the context of pandemics. The position of the Social Democratic Party was only one from the first hour: constructive and collaborative with the Government, always in view of the national interest. More important than any political complaint is the well-being of citizens and the collective effort to mitigate the effects of this crisis on the lives of Portuguese, which unfortunately has not yet ended. We have always been fully aware of the demands of these unusual times and therefore we have never created obstacles to the decision-making process. We have always been present and participate, as much as we were allowed, in the construction of the solution. We did not always agree with the action of the Government. We have analysed our disagreement at home. We reiterate the importance of supporting measures in scientific evidence and in good international practices. We have not always been heard, we have not always been considered, but we have continued to be present and to make possible the action of the government. We voted in favour of 15 states of emergency; without our vote, the government would be manipulated in its political action and the Portuguese would have even less responses to the crisis. Since the first case of infection in Portugal, on 2 March 2020, up to today, the PSD has never resigned to proposing initiatives to alleviate the effects of the pandemic and to support families and businesses in the recovery process. Despite the constructive nature of our contributions, the socialist government has not always heard us. In November 2020, the PSD presented a set of measures supported by seven priority axes for health control and management in Portugal in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. By means of an appropriate strategy by the Government to prepare for the fall-winter period 2020 - 2021, the measures proposed by the PSD assumed a non-preventive character as desirable, but to mitigate the impact of the second wave of new infections, both in COVID patients, and in non-COVID patients. The list of proposals included the creation of test centres in a drive-thru model throughout the national territory and the widespread and regular weekly application of rapid tests, which would only be carried out weeks later. Greater monitoring of national land, maritime and air borders has also been suggested to avoid the entry and spread of new variants. This has never been done and we believe that it would have made a difference in the number of infections. Also in November 2020, the PSD saw the need for a clear differentiation between COVID and non-COVID hospitals. We know today that excessive mortality struck all records in January and COVID does not explain this overall increase. In fact, not 50 % of the increase explains. The rest are collateral victims of the pandemic, people left to give up, without medical assistance to respond to their pathologies. During the 15 months in which the work of this Commission was carried out, the PSD conducted a consistent process of scrutiny for government members and public entities. In addition to six dozen auditions, we asked the government more than 40 formal requests and questions. In the vast majority of cases we never received answers, which, regimently, were due to us. Even so, we did not stop questioning, proposing and examining. On the basis of the balance sheet, some general conclusions are drawn from the hearings. The first is that the government has not been properly speedy in response to the pandemic, and has often chosen to react rather than prevent it. It is not possible to account for the consequences of this protection and this insecurity in the decision, but we have the full notion that a faster and more assertive action would have saved lives. The delay in taking measures such as the closure of schools at the end of 2020 or the creation of a larger framework of restrictions for Christmas celebrations last year—two measures that the PSD has both defended and that experts have confirmed since the first hour before the evidence of a new wave— contributed to the significant worsening of the number of deaths in January 2021, both of the deaths associated with the pandemic and of those caused by other causes. Finally, it was clear in this Commission that the government's narrative on economic and business support measures did not correspond to an effective action. We heard dozens of tourism, agriculture, housing, commerce, culture, representatives of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, who often in despair confirmed that the government's support was insufficient, disproportionate and delayed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u7	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u8	I will finish, Mr. President. The PSD never ceases to have an active voice in these situations, both in the signaling of problems, and in the attempt to find solutions, constructively, self-evidently, with irrefutable mission spirit. We hope that the way in which this government acts, late and reactive, will end and will be worthy of the goodwill and trust of all, Portugal and the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u9	Mr Moisés Ferreira spoke for an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Commission which followed the issues relating to COVID in Portugal ended its operation in an abrupt manner, not by choice of the Left Block, but because, at a certain time, the PS and the Government, the attraction of the legislative elections so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u11	All right! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u12	This attraction by the elections has caused this Commission and the Assembly of the Republic to stop its operation, despite the continuing pandemic. However, it is possible to draw several conclusions from what we lived in the pandemic, from what we participated in during the discussions of the pandemic and from what was the pandemic so far. The first conclusion is this: the National Health Service is essential to the country, as opposed to the private sector, which makes health and disease a business. We remember that while public hospitals were daily in the so-called "frontline" of the pandemic combat, on the other hand, the private sector was closing doors, sending their workers to layoffs or, for example, refusing to admit infected patients with COVID-19. In fact, the lobby of the private hospital sector in Portugal until one day came to a halt in newspapers saying that it was contributing immensely to the fight against COVID and that in 11 600 beds it had sold 80 to the National Health Service — I say « sold» because that is how the private does, that is, it was only in exchange for tens of thousands of euros that the private has made available a small part of its resources to the National Health Service. The second conclusion is that health professionals, in particular the professionals of the National Health Service, are dedicated and resilient — repeat, resilience! — inexhaustible and which cannot be called into question. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u13	The National Health Service has never failed the country during the pandemic, but it is true that the government has failed at various times in this pandemic, not only in the National Health Service but also in the country. When he did not require the private, despite the fact that there was a state of emergency decree allowing this civil requirement, the government failed, because it did not mobilize all the resources that existed in the country to ensure the provision of health care for all people. When he insisted on temporarily hiring the poor, some health professionals, hoping that the pandemic would solve itself without having to spend a lot of money on it, the government failed the country. When he refused to defend the end of the vaccine patents and somehow subjugated or complied with the delays and failures of the pharmaceutical industry, and thus delayed the start of the vaccination process, the government certainly failed the country. When he condemned workers and entire sectors of activity to little support, or even no support, leading to the fact that the Assembly of the Republic had to amend legislation to increase such support, the Government, of course, failed the country. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the pandemic would not be resolved or resolved by magic, but its consequences could and could be alleviated if the government had invested and supported more. In 2020, the government left EUR 7 billion of the Budget to be implemented when these EUR 7 billion could and should have been channelled towards a better fight against the pandemic and for more support to whom it was suffering. Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government insists on not wanting to learn anything for the future with what the pandemic should teach us, but the country will say it has drawn its lessons and conclusions. The country will certainly say that the government has often failed the country throughout the pandemic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u14	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Possible Commission for monitoring the implementation of the response measures to the COVID-19 pandemic and the process of economic and social recovery, in addition to its extensive name, has had the extensive task of analysing the whole epidemic situation and its consequences to 360 o. Over and often over the various committees, which, of course, were working on COVID in their different areas — and could not be otherwise — the Commission has worked on the listening of dozens of entities from various sectors and various areas. More than a balance sheet of the Commission's work, we want to highlight the lessons we can learn from what we have learned, the clarity with which our country's weaknesses are demonstrated, and the consequences of the policy on the right of successive governments. These lessons also put before us the possibility of correcting and responding to national problems, immediate options which, having political will to do so, could contribute to solving the problems of the country. This is the case with the SNS, without which — if they had already dismantled it, as some wanted — everything would be quite different. The truth is, the SNS is at risk. They continue with no response to the needs of people, they continue to recover all the consultations and all the activity that was left behind, we continue without access to various specialities and what we have seen is the degradation of care, infrastructure and working conditions. If no action is taken to prevent the destruction of the public service on behalf of the disease business, if no action is already taken to prevent this destruction in the establishment of professionals in the SNS, in their valorization and stabilization, we will be questioning the one who was the pillar of the response to COVID-19. It is through the SNS that the response that still needs to be given in the face of increased cases: the strengthening of vaccination and the public health structure, which signals and stops the proliferation of cases. It is through the SNS that also passes one of the greatest challenges, that of responding to mental health, ensuring access to such care and ending the despair of not getting help. The CFP cannot but underline another of the great brands of the pandemic: at a time of great pressure, for the country and for the whole world, what the economic system dominated by the large groups was to take advantage of the situation. This was the case with the equipment, with regard to vaccines, with regard to the disease itself. This was the case for the work, in which the biggest hits, mass redundancies, the disposal of thousands of workers, the layoff — which was paid only 100 % on the initiative of the CFP — to blackmail and degradation of working conditions. All this in the name of the pandemic and using the pandemic. It is common to say that «the pandemic has broad backs», and that is true. It was so much the use made by the capital to intensify exploitation and to concentrate even more the wealth that today is too evident the need to combat precariousness, to value careers and to increase wages, from the national minimum wage. That is also why, because the economic system which insists on not contradicting the determination, that thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises did not have help in good time. These companies, which are the basis of the economic fabric, but which depend on the liveliness of the national economy and Portuguese income, were sacrificed because, even at a time of tightening for families and small businesses, they preferred to leave the profits of the oil intact and maintain exorbitant energy prices, for example, to intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u16	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u17	We cannot finish this intervention without remembering and giving a word of recognition to those essential workers, who have proved absolutely essential, but are not being treated with dignity. We leave a greeting and our recognition to health workers, the collection of waste and urban hygiene, water and sanitation, homes and social equipment, services and trade, such as supermarkets, transport, education. So many workers have been and are essential and the CFP will continue to fight for raising their living conditions and their recognition. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u18	For the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Arrobas has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS-PP Parliamentary Group presented on 19 May 2020 a draft resolution to recommend to the Government the setting up of a possible committee to monitor the implementation of the response measures to the COPID-19 epidemic, which was approved, together with initiatives by other parties and other parliamentary groups, giving rise to Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 56/ 2020 — Establishment of a possible Commission to monitor the implementation of response measures to the COVID-19 pandemic and the process of economic and social recovery. The CDS-PP Parliamentary Group submitted to the CAM COVID ( COVID-19 Military Support Centre ) requests for the hearing of more than 20 entities, as well as the sending of various information and documents to the Commission. During these almost two years of pandemic, the CDS was attentive, was the government's supervisor and, with a sense of responsibility, presented proposals that it considered to be more effective to respond to the situation of extreme fragility and vulnerability in which thousands of people remained, but also the SNS itself, the social sector and the economic sector. in a pandemic for which no one was prepared, it is normal and acceptable some degree of disorganization and initial inconsistencies, but especially after the first wave, the government demonstrated the inability to learn from the initial mistakes, plan ahead and act with agility. Consequently, during these almost two years of pandemic, the CDS Parliamentary Group of the CDS Group warned that the need for the renewal of support for companies that were forced to close up during the emergency states, making it clear that it would not be acceptable for the APOAIR programme to remain without money when the companies needed the most needed money; it pointed out that it was crucial to draw easy-to-access measures, unlike the layoff, which, in relation to other European countries, was one of the most demanding and restrictive and restrictive conditions for businesses and workers; it stressed the need for the provision of social support for the most vulnerable groups in the face of the virus, where the elderly were included; it called attention attention to the need to draw easy access measures to care for their children and their children; it called attention to the necessity to ensure that students and teachers had the conditions they needed to learn and teach and to learn and teach; it argued that there should be a more specific and differentiated attention and measures should be needed to be made more specific attention and measures for the groups most vulnerable groups before the virus, the Force forces made the virus, the force and the force, the force, the force of the force of the task made by the task made by the task made by the force, the force of the force of the force, and the force of the task of the task of the task of the task of the task of the task of the use of the use of the task of the task of the task of the United Gos, and the United, and the task of the United, and the United, and the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the United Nations, the United Nations, the United Nations, the United Nations, the United Nations, the United Nations, and the police, the police, and the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police and the police, the police and the police and the police, the police, the police, the police and the police, the police, the police and the police and the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police and the police, the police and the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, the More: we have warned about the need for mass testing; we always insist that the government improve its communication policy, which was disastrous; we have consistently stressed the absolute need for the definition of plans for recovery of non-COVID care activity using the entire health system. In this report, CAM COVID has done all the work that has been made possible to it in an exhaustive, careful and responsible way, and has proved extremely important and, in this sense, the CDS Parliamentary Group supports the content of this final report. As a final recommendation, we believe that it would be at all desirable titles for the work of this Possible Commission to be resumed in the next Parliament, given that the pandemic is not yet exceeded; there is at least one third of the vaccine to be administered to the population; there are many consequences for the health of the people to whom it will be necessary to continue to respond; many companies will still need support; and there is a Recovery and Resilience Plan to be implemented. At the end of this term of office, I cannot fail to thank the Member of the CDS Ana Rita Bessa, who has accompanied more than 90 % of the work of this Commission, whom I thank on behalf of all of us for the work and commitment both in this Commission and in all parliamentary work. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, CH, IL and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u20	Before we continue with the interventions, I ask the services to open the electronic register for quorum purposes. Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP now has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This health emergency was a learning experience for the various social and health sectors. Fortunately, Portugal has not had these kinds of public health emergencies, unlike other countries, but this is a situation for which we will be increasingly prepared and, above all, to act in its prevention, both at the local and global level — something for which the NAP has always alerted in the various forums — and this process cannot be closed in any entity, either at DGS or at INSA (National Institute of Health Doctor Ricardo Jorge ), as it was initially essential, having been the collaboration of the academy, the private sector and international specialists. In fact, it was when this opening, both of data and of meetings, was achieved, particularly in Infarmed (National Medicines and Health Products Authority), that we began to have evidence and scientific and technical guidance supporting the political decision. The investigation had an acceleration never before seen, demonstrating the enormous value of science and our researchers, who revealed not only scientific competence and knowledge as high altruism and entrepreneurship. Despite learning for future crises, greater learning will have to focus on preventing future crises. We cannot go through this health and social crisis without realizing its relationship with our behaviors, habits, options and decisions. Live animal markets are an international problem — not just China or any other country — and therefore it is necessary to combat all risk factors associated with human nutrition, whether in these markets, or in the transport of live animals, in pesticides, in antibiotics for increased food production, among others, which are risk factors for public health. We cannot go through this crisis without realizing that these are potentially factors that generate future health crises. On the other hand, we highlight the fundamental role that public health and environmental health professionals have had and will continue to have. Since the first hour that the NAP has alerted to the need for its priority reinforcement in combating the spread of COVID-19 in the community, as well as to the importance of border protection, which was certainly one of the problems solved during this health crisis. The Possible Commission for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Response Measures to the COVID 19 Pandemic and the Economic and Social Recovery Process played a key role in the sharing of information and analysis of the COVID situation in the various sectors, being an essential mechanism for the auscultation of a set of entities whose contributions are fundamental to combating the crisis in their various scenarios. As far as this report is concerned, it seems to us that, more than mirroring what has been done, it must leave recommendations for the future. in this sense, the NAP alerted to the need to identify risk factors in human, animal and environmental health, integrated health prevention plans; strengthening public and environmental health teams, investment in new methodologies and innovation in health, public/private health articulation, academia at the national and international level, protection of schools, ERPI(residential structure for elderly persons), vulnerable public and public transport, safe telework and more flexible work measures, continue to communicate the importance of measures to hygiene of the population, strengthen professionals and resources of the SNS, telemedicine, effective communication in health. This is how we will continue to fight COVID-19. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u22	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On January 30, 2020, the World Health Organization ( WHO ) declared coronary virus infection as an international public health emergency and on March 11 classified the epidemiological situation as a pandemic. The Greens, since the first hour, have defended the application of appropriate measures to prevent, combat and treat the pandemic in order to safeguard lives and public health and to minimize the impact of this pandemic on the economic, social and environmental dimensions. in this period, the chronic underfunding of the National Health Service over the years has been demonstrated - the emergence of professional reinforcement in health units - that we here pay tribute to its remarkable contribution, without having been properly rewarded - and to the investment in more and better conditions to give the necessary answers, namely the increase in the number of beds for admission. In parallel with measures taken to force physical distancement, such as closure of schools, telework or closure of commercial, sporting and cultural establishments, it was essential to associate effective support through the maintenance of wages to 100 %, the non-transfer of business costs to workers, the extension of social protection and the guarantee of the survival of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Moreover, it became clear that Portugal's dependence on food abroad can bring us serious supply problems if pandemics of another nature and demand come about, which requires urgent measures to guarantee food sovereignty in the country, with strategic reserves and productive tissue. Many of these decisions took a long time and many were applied in insufficient size. Situations that were clear in the many hearings that this Commission held, always counting on the availability of personalities, institutions and members of the government. The state of emergency declaration deserved serious reservations by DOS Verdes, because the Civil Protection Bases Act as well as the public health surveillance system contain the necessary tools to respond to needs. The Greens considered and continue to consider that there is an urgent need for clear communication with citizens and support measures in good time. Just like now, what is needed is not the statement of the state of calamity, but the state of strengthening public transport, the strengthening of the National Health Service and the public school. In addition, the ENP alerted the need not to take this pandemic situation as a test tube for the deepening of operating logics, such as the deregulation of working hours or the transition of costs associated with the realization of the work to the workers themselves in telework, which has also been confirmed in hearings performed. The Greens Parliamentary Group has always intervened to claim that the pandemic could not serve as a pretext for neglecting investment in determining sectors to ensure environmental quality, on the ground that problems are being added to other problems, with very serious repercussions on public health.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u24	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Perhaps the best way to start this intervention is by referring to the three main points with which Mr André Pinotes Batista introduced us today. You said that this is the country that is best prepared to face the pandemic. It would be funny if it were not the country of the European Union with less support given to the economic and commercial sectors. He also said that it is the country in which "we did not fail in the health sector", but every week there are resignations in the health sector, both from administrators and from hospital directors. “We did not fail in the health sector”, but hundreds of thousands of consultations were postponed and millions of surgeries were to be done while the PS government was facing this pandemic. Less than 40 % cancer diagnoses and more than 50 % death risk, but "we did not fail in the health sector". I imagine, if we failed, what would have happened! Open... « The public school has not failed», said the PS. It's just you forgot to deliver the computers you promised to the children in our country. Today, at the time we are here, 50 % have not yet received the computers that had been promised by the PS government, nor will they, of course, receive them in the coming months. 'We have not failed the economic sector', Mr President, but we have achieved the most absurd measures that are possible, between 3 p.m., 2 p.m., 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. A country more absurd than this one could have made known. 'We have not failed', but no support has arrived and in some sectors we have had the greatest number of failures of the European Union in the last quarter. If this is "not to fail", I don't know what it is to fail to the Portuguese. My dear ones, there's only one chance we won't fail.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u26	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u27	I shall conclude, Mr President. There's only one chance, just not to fail the Portuguese, which is, on January 30, we'll send the PS home!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u28	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A brief word of appreciation for the work which you have worked. Members and the services have done these 18 months of operation of this Event Commission. The report we are discussing today cannot bleach what has been an action by the erratic government in the health guidelines, slow in the operationalization of support, incompetent in education with regard to both the delays in the learning generated or the late delivery of equipment that has long been promised, irresponsible in the management of the SNS, as is present in the day-to-day and in the many and many cases of delays that will have consequences in the future. The real heroes of the fight against this pandemic were the Portuguese, in general, health professionals, at the head, and the hundreds of thousands of workers and entrepreneurs of the private initiative who held this difficult period. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u30	The IL has always been on the front line of defending the freedoms of Portuguese during this period and insisted on the use of data and science for the taking of positions, which, as a rule, has not happened. We would like to have been too, let me tell you, in line with this Commission. But a resolution taken in July this year has profoundly changed the purpose of this Commission, including the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is only the most structural measure Portugal will have in the coming years, not allowing the Commission to change its composition, where we would have liked to have sat down. So stay for future memory. This House will continue to have more and less representation and should all be able to participate in such works.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u31	Mr Luís Moreira Testa, President of the Commission, now has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, I address to you in particular in order to ensure that the mandate which the Members of this Commission have received from you has been fulfilled as far as possible and only as far as possible. The apparent exemption expressed here today by the parliamentary groups, perhaps of the pre-election climate already living in Portugal, contrasted and contrasted with the climate in the Commission, where all Members and all parliamentary groups devoted themselves to the work of discovering what was to be discovered, monitoring what was to be monitored and, above all, contributing where the role of the Member was essential and where the role of the parliamentary groups proved essential. I also speak to the parliamentary groups, especially to the ladies and gentlemen. Members who composed the Eventual Commission who had an obligation to monitor the action of the Government on measures taken to combat the pandemic and on the process of economic and social recovery that the country required. A word, in particular, to the Parliamentary Groups of the CDS-PP and the Socialist Party, because they were the promoters of this Commission, since it was these parliamentary groups that the idea was born, the project, the initiative that the Portuguese Parliament also had a word to say on what was probably the most important issue in recent years. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to thank the many entities and personalities heard by the demonstrated availability. Some of them have been heard repeatedly and systematically within the Commission. What are we reserved for the future? From now on, as mentioned above, the amendment of the object of this Commission, which also gives it the responsibility to monitor and monitor the implementation of the RPP. The challenge we have for the future, we as democracy, we as the Assembly of the Republic, is the imperative need to continue the work begun and not completed. That is why I urge those who are to be elected, I urge the parliamentary groups who are to be represented in this House of the Republic to continue this work in the next Parliament. I want to say good-bye as President of the Commission with the feeling of having to do it. When it does, the Assembly of the Republic has fulfilled its role. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u33	Mr President, I believe that on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, I can thank you for the work done in this House for the monitoring of the COVID-19 disease and for the process of economic and social recovery, a thank you to all those who participated in it and, of course, to you, who was President of the Commission. [[PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN applause.]] We will enter the second point of our order of business, with the general appreciation of Bill No. 1028 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — Transitional regime of mandatory use of masks in public spaces. To present the project, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the context of the epidemiological situation in which we find ourselves and also in the context of the measures already identified by the Government yesterday, it seems necessary again to debate the need for the possibility of creating the mandatory use of masks in public spaces. In view of the fact that it is known by all that the dissolution of this House must necessarily take these two factors into account: on the one hand, the evolution of the pandemic and, on the other hand, the fact that as soon as the dissolution takes place, Parliament is no longer able to legislate on this matter. However, if we were to impose a regime of compulsory use of masks from now on, with the approval of a law, only the new House, to elect on 30 January, would be in a position to revoke it, which would lead to the implementation of an excessive regime, because it created this obligation even if the pandemic situation was to evolve favourably. in this sense, what the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents here today is an intermediate solution which allows us to verify, at every moment, whether the need to impose this measure is justified and appropriate, with full respect for the principle of proportionality, to the situation that occurs at every moment. The way we propose to solve this problem is today, through a law of the Assembly of the Republic, to enable the Government with the ability to, if the numbers justify it, be able to determine the obligation to use masks in public space at all times when, through a declaration of warning, calamity or contingency, it comes to provide for measures necessary to manage the pandemic. This is not therefore the immediate imposition, under this law, of this obligation, only to create the possibility, the ability to, at times when this is justified by an assessment of the number of interns, the numbers of persons with the disease and the rates of transmission, be able to make that decision on the basis of permanently updated and verifiable data. Moreover, the structure of the diploma we present is, in everything, similar to what, in the past, on the initiative of the PSD and, later on, by successive renewals of the Assembly of the Republic, configured the use of masks, either as regards the age from which it is mandatory, or as regards the set of exceptions, which at that time were also planned, in particular the exemption of this obligation, when there is a medical certificate of multi-use incapacity, when there is a declaration that the clinical condition of the person does not permit it, when the use of the mask is incompatible with the nature of the activities to be performed and, even in cases where we are before people of the same family aggregate and therefore of the same « bubble». In addition and repeating, it is not a matter of necessarily implementing, until the diploma can be revoked, the use of the mask, it is a matter of allowing, enabling, enabling, giving a faculty and an instrument to the Government, within the framework of its powers of civil protection, when, by resolution of the Council of Ministers, decreeing alerts, calamity or contingency, this possibility at its disposal, if that appears necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u35	You have the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has been and will always be next to solutions that safeguard Portuguese health, safety and life. The imposition of masks may be one of these solutions, as soon as it is recommended by the health authorities. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not be with our opposition, of course, that the government will no longer have the necessary means to serve the country and to respond to the recent worsening pandemic. We will, of course, be as we have always been responsible and cooperative in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u38	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that this project of the Socialist Party is a constitutional engineering, it is a skilled constitutional engineering and it is only "eligible" under circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u40	It is that it raises, of course, two points, the first of which is that of which the Government was a calculator. It's not right to say anything else, the government was a calculator. Why? Because I did not want to take the political burden of defining today, with specific rules and with a concretely determined validity, the use of masks, because you know that this has electoral costs or may have electoral costs. So what did you do? He fled at seven feet from the only way that he had for Parliament to solve the matter in a wrong way. And what was it? Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves knows what he was. It was to ask Parliament to use legislative authorization with rules. But that is not what happened, what happened was that the government wanted to ask the PS to ask Parliament to pass a sort of blank check. It was this, a blank check which will then be filled out in accordance with the conveniences of the Socialist Party and the Government, imposing the use of masks as you wish, whenever and in the manner you wish. But if the government was a calculator, we think the PS was also a little tactical. And it is not true what you said, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, because this project is not identical to what the PSD once presented. What the PSD presented, at the time, was a project that required the mandatory use of masks, but with the concrete terms of this obligation and its validity. That's not what the Socialist Party did! More: what you do is refer to an administrative act, which is the resolution of the Council of Ministers, the definition of rules and restrictions which can only be determined by law. It will not make much sense for Parliament, from now on, to remain without scrutiny and control of what will be done. And not even the President of the Republic can do this scrutiny, because you will solve things in the Council of Ministers offices, without us here being able to say whether what they do is right or wrong. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what the government wants is a 'green road' to use as it understands. But if you think that this makes the government's life easier, it may not ease it, it increases its responsibilities, because from now on only you can complain about yourself and you can only be asked to account for it, Government. I'm leaving a final note, Mr. Members: this delegation of powers which the Assembly of the Republic is doing to the Government, in an absolutely exceptional way, cannot become a rule nor can it be perpetuated in time. Therefore, what we suggest is that the PS, in Article 9. the, which establishes the beginning of the reign of this diploma, also establishes the cessation of the validity. And when? By 1 March 2022, because on 1 March 2022, we already have a new elected assembly and it is the new elected assembly that has to assume the full range of its powers and powers, from the moment it is elected, it is not the government that, without giving information to the Assembly of the Republic, will continue to resolve this matter as you understand it. We hope that this suggestion will be accepted, because it is through this that the Government can have the parliamentary credentials to do what has to be done, without excuses, without excuses, but always with a huge concern, which is our concern, is the concern, I think, of this whole Parliament, that it is always to preserve the health of the Portuguese as being, at this time, the national priority. And in this, the PSD is equal to itself: it has always cooperated, always collaborated and always put this concern first. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u41	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, and Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To stress that, in this matter, we have finally agreed that the Socialist Party could bring it in and schedule it today, because, in fact, the need for it and the way it appears, with this authorization to the Government, results precisely from the circumstances in which we are, as the result of the circumstances in which management has ceased to function and has prevented Parliament from functioning, now being obliged or seeing us now, having to find the expression, which I do not want to be abusive, from being able to answer this matter. I would like to say that I fully agree with what Mr Peixoto has said right now. In fact, this initiative, in Article 9. the, which provides for its entry into force, must provide for its cessation, even if it can, of course, refer to the elected Parliament or to the time of the elected Parliament. It does not make sense that a law which provides for its entry into force exceptionally in these circumstances does not, at the same time, provide for the cessation of its operation. I would like to say, in this regard, that the CDS will not oppose this either and will vote in favour, stressing, moreover, that, throughout the pandemic, our position has always been also a position of responsibility, a position, so to speak, of caution and caution. And the responsibility, prudence and caution, given the evidence of a fifth wave, of the increase in contagions, of the recurrence of the pandemic, of what is happening throughout Europe, of course, from our point of view, makes sense. Having said this, however, I draw attention to some things, from the very beginning to the concepts, because it is clear that this diploma gives the government a margin, but it is also clear that these concepts have to be clarified and must be perceived by the people themselves. In other words, when it is said, for example, ‘where physical distance is not possible’, it is appropriate for the Portuguese to interpret correctly what is at stake, in what circumstances this law will effectively apply, in which circumstances is that the use of mask is indeed indispensable and mandatory. On the other hand, one of the fundamental mistakes made in the previous vacancies, and we have also spoken about this now, concerning the report by the Committee on the Pandemic, was precisely that of the communication failures, because at some point people do not know what is supposed to be, they do not know what is necessary, they do not know how to proceed. And we need to be very careful about this, because some of these concepts are unclear, some of these concepts are relatively indeterminate, and communication, as has been said here, especially with regard to young people—and there may be an important risk here, if communication is not effective—must be perceptible. Therefore, let them not repeat themselves in this matter, and I am thinking, for example, of Article 4. the same errors, which do not repeat many of the errors of 2020 and that there is a caution that allows us not to have to go back to more drastic situations, not to have to go back to confinement. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u43	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The priority, at this time, in relation to the pandemic, should be the vaccination and strengthening of the National Health Service, and vaccination not only at the national level, intensifying the pace of this vaccination, for which much more resources are needed than those currently existing, but also at the international level, so that we are not surprised, as, of course, everyone is being, with the appearance of new variants. Therefore, it is good not to forget the struggle for the lifting of patents, which is absolutely fundamental. at this time, these should be the priorities. In fact, a year ago, we didn't even have the vaccine instrument to apply. We all remember that, in Portugal, it began to be applied by the end of the year and with greater intensity only in January or February this year. This year, we have the vaccine and this is the priority in fighting the pandemic. As regards the proposals on the mandatory use of masks in public outdoor spaces, because that is what we are talking about, we do not find the most proportionate and appropriate measure in these conditions at this time. First, because we have to encourage exactly outdoor activity, because everyone knows that in a respiratory disease is much safer outdoor activity than in closed and confined spaces. Second, because having measures that provide for significant fines may not be the best way to cause the population to voluntarily adhere to behaviors of greater caution and prevention. This is today. However, it is difficult to predict the evolution of the pandemic in the coming weeks, it is difficult to predict whether new variants will be introduced in Portugal or not, it is difficult to predict the rate of vaccination, it is difficult to predict the real effectiveness of the booster dose and therefore we also do not want the government to remain without additional instruments, if necessary and if necessary to apply them. From that point of view, the Abster-CL Left Block will be, in this bill of law that is brought by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, precisely because it seems to us that the immediate priority should be the vaccination and strengthening of the National Health Service and that this measure, if applied today, would be disproportionate, from a few weeks from now we do not know of its need, but we do not want the government to remain without this potential instrument. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u45	Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we must welcome the Socialist Party for finally coming here to recognize or give reason to something that the NAP has said since the beginning of this health crisis and, in particular, at this special moment we live, of dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic, which is the need to prevent, since in fact, the Assembly will not have its full powers of scrutiny of the Government's activities here. So let's make a good note of that. We have also warned, and recently, at the discussion about the repeal of the exceptional penalty regime, that, if contexts of outbreak were to be found in prison establishments, the proposal for the repeal of that law which we have discussed in nothing prevented. The NAP, in this intervention, makes it clear once again that it does not follow solutions to the damage and that it believes that the bet should always be in the public prevention policies. In the project now presented by the Socialist Party, we note two positive aspects in which we have insisted from the outset: the importance of effective awareness-raising and communication campaigns for the different target audiences, and also the bet on reusable masks. However, there are also aspects that concern us and which, of course, we must point out in this intervention. One of them is the absence of a date of cessation, the other is the criterion chosen from 10 years of age, which has no substantiated justification in this project. Thirdly, it is essential to guarantee the universality of access to masks by all people. We are well aware that for people who are in situations of greater vulnerability, particularly as a result of their socio-economic conditions — if we think, for example, of people who are homeless — it is essential to ensure access to these personal protective equipment in any part of the country. Therefore, in this intervention we reiterate a permanent position of the NAP: it is necessary at this stage to ensure testing and effective tracking anywhere in the territory. You cannot look at the country only at the Lisbon scale and consider or conclude that access to testing is, in fact, universal. It is not yet and it must be guaranteed. Therefore, what we call for, in conclusion, is that the Government effectively fulfils its share in the implementation of policies so that it can, in fact, make demands of responsibility for citizens and citizens. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u47	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u48	Mr. President and Mr. Members: This proposal is a blank check that we pass to the government, especially when we have studies today — and some good international studies — that demonstrate that the open air infection is very small. In fact, there are even international studies that show that outdoor infection is practically zero, while others admit very low margins of infection. There is one fact that deserves analysis: it is that the overwhelming majority of the countries of the European Union, especially in Central and Eastern Europe, where at present the incidence levels are much higher than ours, have not returned to the use of mandatory mask on the street in all circumstances. So there is no reason for us to give the Government a letter or a blank check on this matter when we have elections on 30 January. If the situation were to deteriorate extraordinarily, we would have a new Assembly in mid-February perfectly qualified to legislate on a matter that requires proportionality and adequacy. Finally, two particularly important legal issues, firstly, the application of a rule to autonomous regions when Parliament is dissolved and an authorization to the Government is very doubtful constitutionality. Secondly, with regard to the creation of empty control rules, when it is said that the police should monitor the use of masks in circumstances where it is not possible to maintain the distance, I invite Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves to make the counter-ordination car and explain it — because we already have three or four judgments on this — to a court which was not possible in that case to maintain the social distance. Say there how do the authorities pass the counter-order for this purpose, with this object? We have already three or four judgments on this, all of them unfavourable to the security forces precisely because the rationale for the regulatory area has not been clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u49	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u50	These are two legal issues that we consider important to clarify at this headquarters.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u51	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I imagine the perplexity of the Portuguese out there when they look at this issue, because yesterday the government decreed a series of requirements for the use of masks in certain spaces and events and today the PS says that, for certain other obligations in public spaces, there is no legal backing. So, what is particularly important about this obligation in public spaces? The answer is: the obligation to use masks in public spaces, as Mr Pedro Delgado Alves himself acknowledged, is excessive, raises legal and probably constitutional questions regarding their legality. Then it makes no sense, for all that is known today, to discourage the presence of people in the open public space. On the contrary! We should make it easier, more pleasant, more encouraged, exactly, all outdoor activities. Therefore, in the face of a proposal by the Socialist Party which is either illegal or immoral, or irrational, there is only one solution left, which is to vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u53	For the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We only have this discussion today because PS, PSD and government have put us in this mess. Despite the example of civilism that the Portuguese gave in compliance with the sanitary measures, PS, PSD and Government decided in 2020 that a law was needed to impose the mandatory use of masks and that the law should have a fined penalty regime. As they decided in 2020, the country is now hostage to this decision and the Assembly of the Republic obliged to pass a law whose content will remain for history as a cartoon of the decision taken in 2020. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u55	As a PS, PSD and Government decided that there had to be a law to impose the obligation of the mask, as the President of the Republic decided to dissolve the Assembly of the Republic and convene early elections, as none of this is correct with the common sense required in the measures to prevent the CVID-19, but there must be a solution for this, the Assembly of the Republic now has to pass a law which determines the compulsory use of the mask without deciding it, which part of the principle that this decision is of the Assembly of the Republic, but which sends the decision to the Government and which, above all, raises the question about the need for its own approval of a law for the use of the mask, it ends up contradicting not only the widespread practice of the Portuguese—which we can verify every day in the street—as some of the decisions that the Government itself has still announced. This, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is indeed a completely indispensable trick, especially in matters of relevance to the use of the mask for the prevention of infection by COVID-19. The position of the CFP remains the one that has always been, and that in 2020 we made it clear. First, it is a position of confidence in Portuguese and responsible attitude as, in general, they have acted in compliance with health measures. Secondly, it is a position of reaffirmation of the lack of approval of laws that impose what can be done without this legal imposition. Thirdly, it is a position that can make the contribution that needs to be made so that appropriate health measures are not devalued with such tacks as this one. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we continue to consider that the use of the mask continues to be an important tool for the containment of the epidemic and that the conditions of its use should be duly weighted and determined by the health authorities, disbursing such as these, in which PS, PSD and government have involved us since 2020. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u56	To conclude this debate, you have the floor, also accumulating time for the closure, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I thank all the speeches by the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. In fact, it is important that we can achieve some further consensus on this matter. First of all, Mr Peixoto, it is not a constitutional engineering, it is an aspect which, being circumstances which are, having a parliamentary dissolution and having a need for measures, is the design according to the Constitution that seems viable to us. Why is the solution of legislative authorisation not possible? Because a legislative authorization is of single use, the government used it to decree the masks, could not revoke it and a legislative authorisation expires with the dissolution and therefore this would have to happen in record time. Therefore, it seems to us that this solution is what actually allows us to shape the needs of each time of pandemic management this response and to enable the mandatory use of mask when necessary and to disable the obligation of mask use when it becomes unnecessary. As for the suggestion that it is very welcome, that is to say, the reason for this scheme has to do with the absence of Parliament in office until, of course, February and, therefore, putting an end to its expiry date on 1 March is completely compatible with the design of this proposal, and we will accept the suggestion of the PSD and we will bring in a proposal for a change in this precise sense. That is precisely the point that is also important to underline. It is not, Mr Moisés Ferreira — I said a few days ago — which was immediately decreed, by tomorrow, that there is no obligation to wear a mask. What is expected is that if, during the management of the pandemic, in relation to the data, to the recommendations of the health authorities, the Government concludes that it is also necessary to declare the use of masks on the public road and that it may not do so in the course of pandemic management. Mr. João Oliveira rightly said that the discussion on whether a law of the Assembly would be necessary for the use of masks on the public road and whether or not it was a constitutional necessity. There are different decisions, there are different readings, there are those who understand that, on the limit, the government could do so under the Basics of Civil Protection Law, there are those who say no. However, what the House decided in 2020 was that this intervention was necessary and that a parliamentary credential was needed in order to do so. And it is on that basis that the decision of 2020 seems to us that, by legal certainty, it is better to have a parliamentary credentials again so that the government can do so. So, Mr. André Ventura, this is not a blank check. A blank check would be to say: 'well, the government will do what it understands, when it understands and how it understands'. But that's not what this is about. We have here the reproduction of the diploma then approved by the PSD proposal. And it was that diploma, in fact, Mr Telmo Correia, which already contained all the criteria here. Therefore, the indeterminate concepts that are inconsequential are the same as the law of 2020 and, in this respect, it seems to us that they are insurmountable. Therefore, it is not a blank check, because it is marked and, on the other hand, the problems it poses—it is true, there may be problematic situations at the level of application of the counter-ordering regime—if it points us to three or four cases of judicial decisions in this sense, there are three or four judicial decisions that enter into a universe of tens and thousands of other counter-ordering cars that have not been challenged or in which the decision was different. Obviously, there may always be poorly filled cars and poorly substantiated foundations, which does not mean that the law should not provide for this possibility, and this faculty, in order to guarantee additional protection. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, we have noticed the positions of the Liberal Initiative in this matter, we have noticed the points underlined, at this and other times, but it seems to us that, above all, the alternative to this model would be that of today, the Assembly decreeing the mandatory use of mask, at the time when it is not yet demonstrated that it is necessary on the public road, and keeps it in force until March, or until the time when the new Assembly could revoke, which is manifestly more serious than this model. And this model, and with this conclusion, will be based on what has been the management, in the perspective of the Basics of Civil Protection Act, of the pandemic. We assume and accept that, through the Basics of Civil Protection Act, this Assembly of the Republic has conferred a number of powers on the Government to enable in duly demonstrated cases to practice concrete acts that have an impact on the fundamental rights of people, but that « credibility » to the Government has been given by Parliament through the Basics of Civil Protection Act. What this law does is to densify, in relation to a fundamental right in particular, this need for special grounds, because it is more demanding than other provisions, and, in the spirit of an act that is already being practiced several times by the government, which is the decree of warning, contingency or calamity. in this sense, it seems to us a balanced solution, which protects, cautions the various interests in the presence and leaves flexibility and the continuous updating of the verification of these criteria, but, as we mentioned, we have the willingness to improve the aspect of the entry into force, so that it is absolutely clear that the measure is exceptional and transitional.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u58	We are thus at the end of the second item on our agenda. At the third point, we have Bill No. 1027 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — extends until 30 June 2022 the deadline for communication by means of distant meetings of local authorities and inter-municipal authorities, making the tenth amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, which approves exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19, to which no time has been allocated for discussion, so we have passed directly to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists of interventions by Members who will not enter the electoral lists. I shall begin by giving the floor to the oldest of the Members who have joined the Bureau, Mr Jorge Lacão, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I thank Mr President, to whom I am now allowed to deal with for my old friend, the opportunity to address to the House a few parting words, beginning precisely by wishing you, President Ferro Rodrigues, the greatest personal happiness for your future life. Remembering an old philosopher, «there is nothing more beautiful in the world than the blue sky above us and the consciousness of duty accomplished». I sincerely believe that at the end of intense political lives and dedication to the public cause, we will both be able to enjoy this feeling of duty accomplished even though, as I believe, the constant concern for the country's destiny will never abandon us in every day of that future. For the simple reason that when over so many years we have lived in constant commitment to the causes of democracy, they express themselves in us as the result of a vocation and vocations, when they are genuine, have no time to finish. They are the destiny of a life, much more than the result of a career. They represent, as the classics of ancient Rome said, an indestructible link between the personal destiny and the destiny of the Republic. It is therefore from this active citizenship that I ask permission to speak to you a little more. It was 38 years ago — in 1983 — that for the first time I entered this Chamber, bringing with me the condition of youth and, with it, as would be natural, all the dreams of the world and the toughest ambition to contribute to improving the lives of my country's women and men. Since then, until today, the transformations by which Portuguese society has passed, whose level of modernization and progress has not paralleled these times. I shared, in these trajectories, and often in the eye of the hurricane, the vicissitudes, contradictions, failures, but also the successes of national life. It is called'resistant' to those who, for each objective not achieved, do not give up fighting for the next opportunity to achieve it. I have witnessed this motto of life in the example of many great figures of national life. And I am confident that, in the chain of generations, many more persist, with courage and determination, in the struggles of every day for the future of the country, with the conviction of those who truly believe in democracy, its values and its principles, and for it consistently strives for the common good. We all learn that there is not a linear and necessary historical destiny. So far, I believe it is essential that Democrats know not to lose sight of the matrix value of republican virtues. Only the power that serves the purposes of the constitutionally established democratic institutions is truly legitimate and worthy of trust. On the contrary, mistrust is the ground where demagogy and demagogy can easily grow and are the most dangerous of the enemies of democracy. But demagogy is not opposed to the mere dialectic of the opposites, but rather requires truth, authenticity, demand and rigour constant in political action. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it has been an honor for me to have been able to serve my country, particularly within the framework of the Socialist Party, the political party to whose early idea I adhered to. I have tried to do so, by failing or correcting it, without ever losing sight of the warnings I have just invoked. I have always tried to do so in solidarity with my comrades, in due consideration of my opponents, and in respect for the people who elected me. Having returned 38 years, I am born with the same belief in the ideals of freedom, justice and service to the common good with which one day I entered the Assembly of the Republic. As time goes on, however, I also learned that whatever political and doctrinal inspiration, only a persistent attitude of personal independence enables us, one day, to be sure that, along the way, we do not demean ourselves from the convictions signed in the most intimate of us and, therefore, from ourselves. If this coherence could have consisted of the essence of my legacy, the commitment of life to political action and parliament might have been worth it. And it is time to conclude, thanking all those, Members or officials, in this House of Democracy, of several generations and in the most varied situations, comforted me with the cordiality of their life or helped me to realize the various responsibilities that I have had the honour to perform. I bow myself to you and all of you, taking with me, not the negation, an indisputable feeling of pride for which I was able to help achieve and, even more, of recognition to so many who have shared with me the realization, always unfinished, of the collective work of all of us, Portuguese, Europeans and citizens of the world. That is our destiny and that is our responsibility. [[PSP, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL, BE Members and Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ( standing) and PCP]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u60	Mr Jorge Lacão, I pay back all the votes that you have put to me and that I thank you very much. Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When this possibility was placed, I seized it immediately. And I took it for a very simple reason: I honestly believe that there are not, as it is usually said, two opportunities to make one last good impression. Having said this, I do not want to make this a new opportunity for the political confrontation, nor do I want to say much about the reasons for the exit. I'm just saying that, even thinking about my party, I miss the future. I would like to testify that, as you said, Mr President, 22 years is not two months or 22 months. In my case, they are more than 22 years old, because my connection to Parliament began, for those who do not know, at this table below, in the midst of you, where the editors are—I was a student of the Faculty of Law, colleague of Antonio Filipe and Antonio Costa, and opponent of the two. I was a editor, and after that I was an advisor to my parliamentary group. So, in good rigour, it's not 22 years, but it's 30 or more years and so I know what it's like to work in this house. I had almost all the functions, except for your seat, Mr President, although you chaired the session as Vice-President. I know what it is to be an official of this House, I know what it is to be a Parliamentary advisor and I know something very important: it is that without the inexhaustible officials of this House and without the commitment of the parliamentary groups, our work here would not be that which is. [[General applause.]] I would also like to say a word to those who — and this is how we are in our political system — have trusted me to be, in particular, the President of the CDS who so often trusted me, Paulo Portas, but also the President of the CDS, Assumption Cristas. Also thanks to them I could be here this time. I was here with great Presidents of the Assembly of the Republic : Almeida Santos, with his intelligence and his culture; Mota Amaral, with his rigor and his integrity; Assumption Esteves, with his legal quality and generosity; and V. Ex., a man of conviction and great experience. But let me, without harming them, that, among all, highlights that of whom I have been Vice-President, with whom I have learned so much and which I will never forget, President Jaime Gama. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP, PS and PSD.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to tell you that I am leaving here, I believe, with friends in almost every bench and with the awareness that we are all opponents here and there are no enemies. What divides us, what separates us most, that are our convictions, our way of looking at Portugal, so different in the benches on the left or the benches on the right, is at the same time what unites us, in the confrontation and in the debate. And what allows that, that is, what separates us from what unites us, is of course democracy. I mean it in the person of the parliamentary leaders I've known over time, and some are here today, not being parliamentary leaders, and those who are today parliamentary leaders I mean, in this idea that there are opponents and no enemies, that I can testify, in relation to each one of them—and some think exactly the opposite of what I think about the future of our country—that I have found in all serious people, whole people, committed people and people who seriously defend, even to the latest consequences, their convictions. And that's why they're opponents and not enemies. I leave that to you, thanking all the parliamentary leaders. With this spirit, I leave you even to finish, Mr President, two or three requests. The first is to go to the leftmost benches: I would like them to do me justice and, in the future, if they come on purpose, say of me «that was not easy, it gave us work, it was complicated». [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] I think it's a justice that makes me and I would like them to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u62	It's guaranteed!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u63	I would say that I would like you to acknowledge that we have always been here with convictions, with determination and with combativity, but that we have also always sought to make politics, in the terms in which we have recently referred to former President Jorge Sampaio, with dignity and with elevation. I would also like that to be the mark of our passage through this Parliament. With regard to the future, we would like to ask those who will continue and those who will join those who will continue, one last thing: continue to honour your mandates, do not let the enemies of democracy take for granted the parliamentary function.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u65	I have performed a number of functions, I have served as a deputy, I have been a minister, but no function has honored me as much as it has been Parliamentary. For those who speak of the privileges of politicians, that is our privilege, that of all of us representing the Portuguese people, of all of us representing this fantastic people. There is no greater privilege! I've been and I'm really proud to be one of you. I am very proud to be one of you, of all, with all the differences we have here. Whoever fights for convictions will never cease to fight—it is the beautiful phrase they like so much—and therefore it will not be won either. Another great statesman said: « Neither success is definitive, nor failure is fatal, which counts the courage to continue». So whoever fights for convictions will never give up. I shall finish by saying to you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one last sentence of a great name in Portuguese literature: "Because we are and on the road we must meet". All the time! Long live Portugal! Long live democracy! Long live the Parliament! [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, PS, PSD, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira (on foot), BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your words. My vows also for your future. And, as he says, well, who is in politics, he never completely reformed political life. Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was at the end of the 1980s that I began to feel an interest in politics, to value democracy and to admire Parliament, to admire it with such great admiration from those who thought it would never be here, it would make no sense, it had no connection. Still, I continued to be interested in seeing and admiring what was being done here. Admiring some of those who, by that time, were most prominent in the national Parliament. It was at the beginning of the 1990s that I watched at a time that marked me very much: the farewell of one of the largest of the Portuguese Parliament and of our democracy, Prof. Adriano Moreira. at that time I thought that perhaps I might, one day, have the honor of serving in this House, but that I would never have the status to make one of these farewells. I didn't forget that. Therefore, I do not think I have the status to do this farewell, but I do have an obligation to thank everything that Parliament has given me. I go out, with the discretion of the common ones and with even greater admiration for the imparas and those who are exemplary and continue to be for me. But what makes sense to me is thank you. Thank, of course, the voters, the voters of the Aveiro electoral circle, the voters of my land, Saint John of Madeira. It was also a very great pride to be one of the fortunately many, of the smallest municipality in the country, parliamentarians that our democracy has. Thank my party and the presidents who chose me here to represent the CDS: former Presidents Paulo Portas and Assunção Cristas. Thank the House officials very much — Parliamentary officials, employees of the CDS Parliamentary Group and officials of other parliamentary groups. At so many times, we have all worked in the same way, in order to make Parliament the House which truly represents the Portuguese. To thank the colleagues of all parties, more than to say that in everyone I made friends, I never engaged in any one, and I was very pleased to work together with all of them. Thank you too — and forgive my family for the absences and chaos that political life and, especially, parliamentary life often causes and for the reflection that this has in the lives of those who have not made that choice and only accompanies us in the course we do in it. In the different cycles of my personal life, I am grateful that I have always had support for this and now take the grateful mission of being able to devote my children longer than I have had so far. It was a lot of work I did here. I stand out two, of which I am proud. Firstly, the fact that he was one of the first Members born in democracy, after 25 April, to make an intervention at a solemn commemorative session on 25 April. It was indeed a realisation of democracy, in which it was good to have participated. I would also like to point out that we have achieved here, in the past Parliament, by unanimous approval of a report from a parliamentary committee of inquiry to the banking system and by having been rapporteur of that committee. It was not my credit, it was from all the Members who, in each of the parliamentary groups, realized the importance of at this time Parliament also giving a sign of maturity. As former President Assumption Esteves said, there have certainly been some « inaccuracies» during these years, and of those penitentiaries, but there have also been much more reasons for realization. I end by thanking you, because, as I said, it is the gratitude that moves me to address these words to you today. Mr President, in your own person, I bear witness to my gratitude to Parliament and my country for having had the honour of humbly serving it. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, PS, PSD, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira (on foot), BE, PCP and PEV.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u68	Thank you, Mr. João Almeida. You have the floor for the same purpose, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Throughout my parliamentary life, there have been many and many moments for interventions. This morning, there have also been many moments for interventions. at this moment, which is the last of my parliamentary life, I would like not to make an intervention, but to leave only thanks, three essential thanks. First of all, I would like to thank those who chose me, the Portuguese. There is no greater honor and privilege than feeling that they trust us to represent them and represent them in Parliament. That is the greatest honor anyone can have in life. And I have tried, every day, every minute I have been in Parliament, never for a moment to forget this responsibility. I have always tried to honor this trust, to be loyal to that representation and always put my whole focus on defending these people and national interests. I would like to leave here this first thanks to those who have trusted me and to say that I hope I have been up to it, because I have given my best, I have given the best of myself and I go out with the feeling of duty accomplished. I would also like to thank the former Presidents of CDS Paulo Portas and Assumption Cristas and the CDS at that time for giving me the privilege of proposing me as their representative. Secondly, political thanks, I would say, parliamentary thanks. When I was young, I used to see parliamentary debates, and I liked it. I know that today, sometimes, they have a bad reputation, but I think the parliamentary debate is the best time to exchange ideas. And it is not a guerrilla, it is not an exchange of insults and, above all, it is not to turn into personal differences differences that are political. Therefore, and knowing that the debate is not, nor can it be, a mess, I tried, in each of those I participated in, that it was alive, that it was pulled out, that it was difficult. But I believe that when I get out of here, I can say that I have always respected everyone and that, in each bench, no matter the differences, in all, I find someone who respects and I admire—and I think that respect and admiration are mutual—and that is a great pride I take. My differences were always political and never personal. Thirdly, I have to leave a great deal of personal gratitude. I was elected a Member in 2009, but had already worked in Parliament as an adviser. Much of what I've grown up, much of my adult life has been passed on here, has also been passed on to the employees—I think I know each other. They were all part of my day-to-day for more than a decade, for almost 20 years. I leave here a very substantial part of myself. Therefore, all these officials, journalists, Members, committee officials, officials of my parliamentary group, I leave my very obliged and would like to tell them that this is not a farewell. I'm gonna keep seeing them because I'm friends with everyone and everyone. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, PS, PSD, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira (on foot), BE, PCP and PEV.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u70	The greatest happiness also for Mrs Cecilia Meireles, whom I have already had the opportunity to say that she is going to miss a lot, especially in the committees of inquiry where she was a great protagonist. Well, rest assured that I will fire myself, too, but it will be only at the end of the sitting, because it doesn't make much sense to fire me now and then to continue to conduct the votes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then proceed to the vote. We have 217 Members present and a long period of votes, and Mr Vice-President will replace me after the vote on the motions for a vote of censure, condemnation and greeting. So let's start with the Vote Project No 706 / XIV / 3. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Despite the victims of the road, on the occasion of World Day in Memory of Road Victims. I request Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo to proceed with the reading of this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « It was celebrated last Sunday, November 21, World Day in Memory of Road Victims, under the theme Act for Low Speed Streets. The World Day in Memory of Road Victims was adopted on 26 October 2005 by the United Nations, pursuant to General Assembly Resolution 60/5, with the aim of paying tribute to the lives lost on roads. In Portugal, this day has been celebrated since 2001. Despite the improvements that have been made in recent years, which can be seen in all aspects, the numbers of sinality continue to be worrying. According to the latest report by the National Road Safety Authority, between January and August 2021, fewer than 19 fatalities, more 780 fatalities, more 69 serious injuries and 978 mild injuries were recorded in national terms. The devastation, especially emotional, but also economic, that these statistical data close, cannot stop questioning us as a society and demand of all — sovereignty agencies, civil and police authorities and the general population — a renewed effort in the prevention and combat policies followed for the eradication, firm and progressive, of this national scourge. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays tribute to the victims of the road, expresses its deep sorrow and solidarity to their families and friends and recognizes the contribution of the security forces, emergency teams and other health professionals who are called daily to deal with this tragic reality, as well as the relevant role of civil society in raising awareness of accident prevention and in supporting victims' victims and families. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u72	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now have the Vote Project No. 707 / XIV / 3. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by the PS ) — regretting the death of Colonel Rui Borges Santos Silva. The son, Rui Santos Silva, accompanied by other family members, is present in the galleries, and also Mr. Vice-President of the Association 25 April, Colonel Aprígio Ramalho. I ask Secretary Nelson Peralta to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On November 15, at the age of 76, Colonel Rui Borges Santos Silva died, one of the captains who returned us freedom and democracy on April 25, 1974. Born on February 27, 1945, in the parish of Lagares da Beira, in Oliveira do Hospital, Rui Borges Santos Silva has since opted for military career, having graduated in Military Sciences. Having joined the Captains' Movement, Rui Santos Silva had an active participation in the Revolution of 25 April 1974, in order to command the Acknowledgment Team that had as its purpose the seizure and occupation of the Paço Land in Lisbon, as a witness to the Operation Report ‘End of Regime’, prepared by Salgueiro Maia. Rui Borges Santos Silva was thanked on 7 October 2004 with the Medal of Municipal Merit, by the Municipal House of Oliveira of the Hospital, and decorated on 30 January 2006 by the President of the Portuguese Republic, Jorge Sampaio, with the Degree of Great Officer of the Order of Freedom. An example of citizenship and reference to the recent history of our country, the disappearance of Colonel Rui Borges Santos Silva is a great loss for democracy and Portugal. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, deeply regrets the death of the citizen and illustrious military leader Rui Borges Santos Silva and addresses the family, friends and the Association 25 April the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u74	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We still have the Voting Project No. 713 / XVI / 3. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — I regret the death of Caetano da Cunha Reis, to which the President of the Assembly of the Republic is associated, since he also knew this citizen with whom he had an excellent relationship. To read this draft vote, I give the floor to Secretary Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last November 18, 2021, at 67 years of age, Caetano Maria Francisco Dias da Cunha Reis, founder of the Youth Centrista ( JC ), to which he devoted himself entirely during the first years of the structure. I was 20 years old and I was a 2nd grade student. the year of law, at Lisbon Law School, when he was elected first President of JC, later appointed by the ‘Interim President of the Coordinator Commission’, which held until the first congress of the structure in Bragança, in March 1976. It was also Caetano da Cunha Reis who, on December 4, 1974, organized the first JC concert, in the Teatro São Luiz, in Lisbon, this rally in which a group of young radicals tried to rob São Luiz, without success and with several injuries between police and protesters. Caetano da Cunha Reis would be, during the Prec ( Revolutionary Process in Course), healthier at the Lisbon Law School. Elected by the Electoral Circle of Coimbra on 25 April 1976, he was a Member of the CDS in the I Legislation. He was the spokesman for the CDS for the Administrative Reform and adviser to the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs. Later he withdrew from political life, building a successful business career, having been Secretary-General of the Portuguese Trade Centres Association. Those who have deprived him will remember the good, generous, self-absent and integrity. Someone who could hear and respect those who thought differently from him. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Caetano Maria Francisco Dias da Cunha Reis, conveying to his family and friends the deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u76	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the votes that we have just voted on, we will keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] I ask Mrs Lina Lopes to proceed with the reading of the draft vote No 709 / XVI / 3. a ( submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees and subscribed by a PSD Member ) — Greetings on 25 November — International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: the draft vote is as follows: « The United Nations ( UN ) consecrated the date of 25 November as the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, with the aim of signaling the urgent fight against various forms of violence that predominantly affect women, as a result of multiple discrimination and structural inequality that continue over time, despite the progress achieved. This date calls on us to deepen the political response to the various dimensions of violence against women, as an inseparable element of the realization of their rights in law and in life, and to ensure their full participation in conditions of equality. Violence against women takes the most diverse forms, including domestic violence and dating, trafficking, sexual exploitation, moral and sexual harassment at work, cyberviolence, xenophobia and racism. They all constitute an intolerable and unacceptable social reality, requiring a determined action and the conjugation of efforts of the whole society to defend intransigently the integrity and dignity of women. It is not enough to intervene after the act of violence against women. It is also necessary to act in the amount of violence, facing the social and economic causes, prejudices and social norms that, perversely, determine the imbalances of power. Not allowing the banalization and forgetfulness of this scourge, recalling that compliance with women's rights is also a prerequisite for democracy, the Assembly of the Republic marks this International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, with the expression of deep solidarity with the victims and a renewed political commitment in this struggle that is of all. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u78	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I now ask Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo to proceed with the reading of the Draft Vote No 712 / XVI / 3. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities and signed by a Member of the PSD ) — Condemning the artificial migration crisis forced by the Belarusian regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « The Government of Belarus carried out a hybrid attack by promoting the arrival by air of migrants from countries such as Syria, Iraq or Afghanistan, and leading them to the borders with Poland, Lithuania and Latvia, so that they illegally force the transition to European territory. As a result, hundreds of migrants remained abandoned without being able to enter any country, imprisoned between borders and forced to survive under inhuman conditions in improvised fields, without access to water or food, in forest areas where temperatures have already reached negative values. This attitude demonstrates the immorality of the Lukashenko regime by instrumentalizing these refugee groups as a source of political destabilization and populism in European Member States. In the midst of this instrumentalization, there remains the misery, the discouragement and the lack of living conditions of these groups. ‘ This crisis was artificially created by the Lukashenko regime to distract us from the human rights violations that are taking place in Belarus, ’ recalled the High Representative of the European Union, Josep Borrell. These manoeuvres of the Alexander Lukashenko regime take place after the European Union's decision on 21 June this year to apply a fourth package of sanctions to Belarus in the face of systematic violation of human and social rights and political repression of civil society, democratic movements of opposition to the regime and journalists. by having referred hundreds of migrants to their borders, under the false promise of entering European territory, escorted by Belarusian military security forces, the Lukashenko regime deliberately endangers the life and well-being of innocent and defenseless people, violating international law, disregarding the most basic human rights, in a political instrumentation of human life which cannot be tolerated or ignored, and deserves the strongest rejection and condemnation. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, comes in this way: to condemn the instrumentalization of human lives by the Government of Belarus for political gain ; to condemn the tension of the migration crisis caused by the Belarusian regime; to condemn the hybrid attack on the Member States of the European Union by Belarus ; to express concern about the subhuman conditions in which migrants are at the borders of Belarus and to appeal to their humanitarian assistance, as well as to find a peaceful solution to protect the hundreds of human lives present there, in the fulfilment of international law and the protection of the most basic human rights of migrants. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u80	Thank you very much, Secretary Sofia Araújo. We shall proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read out. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PCP, the PEV and the PS Vice-President Simões.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u81	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u82	To what effect, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u83	Mr President, to announce that we will deliver a written vote statement on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u84	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We still have the Vote Project No 710 / XIV / 3. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities and signed by a Member of the PSD ) — Concerned about the atrocities reported in the internal conflict in Ethiopia. Mr. Secretary Nelson Peralta will read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « There has been an intensification of the fighting between the government forces and the Tigray rebels in Ethiopia. The conflict between the rebels of this Ethiopian region and the Central Executive of Ethiopia began a year ago, when the Ethiopian Prime Minister ordered an offensive against the Liberation Front of the Tigray people, as a retaliation for an attack on a federal military base and following a escalation of political tensions. Massacres, torture and sexual violence, these are some of the nightmares described in the report jointly produced by the United Nations ( UN ) and the Commission on Human Rights of Ethiopia. They claim that ‘crimes against humanity’ have been committed among all parties involved in the conflict, which has lasted for about a year. These statements arise after the two institutions have collaborated in conducting an investigation which produced the most detailed report of the confrontation, focused on the activities of the rebels in the province of Tigre. ‘The seriousness of the violations and abuses we have identified underscore the need for accountability of those responsible, regardless of the side they are on,’ said the High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, in Geneva. It refers to that report that ‘there are reasons to believe that all parties in conflict in the Tigre region have committed, at various levels of gravity, violations against international law, humanitarian law and international refugee law, which may constitute war crimes or crimes against humanity’, the document indicates. The document refers to the period between November 3, 2020, when the Prime Minister and Nobel Peace Prize Abiy Ahmed launched the offensive against dissident authorities in the mountainous region of Tigre, and last June 28, the date of the unilateral ceasefire assumed by Addis Ababa. The authors of the investigation made a number of recommendations in which, in particular, they call on the Government to hold the perpetrators of the crimes committed. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its concern at the situation of violence and hunger, lived by hundreds of thousands of people in Ethiopia, particularly in the region of Tigray, due to the existing internal conflict, calling for the cooperation of all parties to expedite an adequate and decent response to the serious humanitarian crisis in that region. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] Mr. João Oliveira asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u87	Mr President, to announce that on this draft vote and the previous one we will deliver two explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u88	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. See you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. [[At the moment, Vice-President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u89	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We shall proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. We begin by voting on draft resolution No 1523 / XIV / 3. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Strasbourg and The Hague. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote on draft Law No 1026 / XIV/ 3 is followed. a ( PS ) — Extension of the period of entry into force of Law No 73 / 2021 of 12 November approving the restructuring of the Portuguese Border Control System by recasting the internal security forces and services regime and laying down other rules for the rehabilitation of competences and resources of the Foreign and Border Service. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP and ENP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u90	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u91	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u92	Mr President, it is in order to request the waiver of the final wording and the deadline for complaints regarding this bill that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u93	If there is no opposition, this request from the PS is then satisfied. We now proceed to the general vote, in the general speciality and overall finality of Bill No 1027 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — extends until 30 June 2022 the deadline for distance communication by means of meetings of local authorities and intermunicipal authorities, making the tenth amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March adopting exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mr Pedro Delgado Alves asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u94	Mr President, to request the waiver of the final drafting and the deadline for submitting complaints against inaccuracies of this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u95	Since there are no manifestations of opposition, it is dispensed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u96	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u97	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u98	Mr President, with regard to the following diploma, the three votes are planned, in general, in the field of speciality and overall finality. However, during the debate in general, there are moments, by formulation and suggestion of the PSD, we presented a proposal for an amendment to be considered in the specialty. I would therefore suggest that the vote should be taken in general, that the speciality of this proposal for a distributed amendment should be put to the vote, and that, eventually, the other rules could be voted on, in the speciality, and in the global end as a whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u99	If there is no objection, then we shall vote that way. We will generally vote for Bill No. 1028 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — Transitional regime of mandatory use of masks in public spaces. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The special vote is followed by the proposal for an amendment tabled by the PS to Article 8. the same Bill No. 1028 / XIV/ 3. a ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PSD, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against CH and abstentions from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[This Act shall enter into force on the day following its publication and shall expire on 1 March 2022.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u100	We shall now proceed to the vote in the specialty of the other standards and to the overall final vote of the same Bill No 1028 / XIV / 3. a. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u101	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u102	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u103	Mr President, to request the waiver of the final wording and the deadline for submitting complaints against inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u104	Since there is no opposition, it is then dispensed, as required. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 612 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Guarantees lawyers, applicants and implementing agents the possibility of choosing the system of contributions between CPAS and social security. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD Members Hugo Carvalho and Sofia Matos and abstentions from CH and IL.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 839 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Strengthens mechanisms to combat forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation, directly responsible the whole subcontracting chain and user companies, as well as managers, administrators and directors. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 53 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Purpose to ensure non-discrimination in access to housing by those with pets. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] With this result, the vote of the application, submitted by the NAP, on the same Bill No. 53 / XIV / 1. the, as well as the votes in the special and global final. We will generally vote for Bill No. 835 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Sets out the measures to be taken as a matter of urgency for the implementation of the Plan for the Management of the Natural Park of the Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina ( POPNSACV), preventing new installations and agricultural holdings in the PNSACV until the fulfilment of that plan. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] Therefore, the request, submitted by the NAP, for the fuller vote in the speciality of the Bill No 835 / XIV / 2. a and their overall final vote are adversely affected. We will generally vote for Bill No. 841 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Approves measures to strengthen parental protection by making the sixth amendment to the Labour Code and the sixth amendment to the social protection system in parenthood, within the framework of the social security system and the solidarity subsystem. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] This also undermines the request by the NAP for a full vote in the speciality of Bill No 841 / XIV / 2. a and their overall final vote. We will generally vote for Bill No. 1001 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — Extends criminal protection to all vertebrate animals by amending the Criminal Code to the fifty-fourth. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the Members of PS Antonio Gameiro, the Ascension Simões and Luís Moreira Testa, votes in favour of BE, the NAP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This also undermines the request by the NAP for a full vote in the speciality of Bill No 1001 / XIV / 3. a and their overall final vote. Let us now vote for draft resolution No 946 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of an intermediate care unit in the Chaves Unit — Hospital Center of Tres-os-Montes and Upper Douro. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u105	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u106	Mr Ascenso Simões, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u107	Mr President, it is to indicate that Mr Francisco Rocha and I will present a statement of vote, since the work is already being done.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u108	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for draft resolution No 1314 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Provide childhood education of the legal framework and appropriate pedagogical guidelines that ensure the desirable continuity of the educational process of children from their birth to the age of entry into basic education. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PS, BE and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u109	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u110	Mrs Paula Santos, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u111	Mr President, it is only to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u112	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will vote for draft resolution No 1356 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government assess the impact of the absence of the provision of secondary education on various low-density councils and promote equal access to educational offers in secondary education for all young people. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PS, BE and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u113	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u114	Mrs. Lara Martinho, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u115	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u116	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 1450 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government encourage and support institutions of higher education in the implementation of programmes to host and support refugee students and students at risk or forced to travel. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 855 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government actions to enhance traditional agricultural systems in perennial crops, with a particular focus on olives. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PCP, PEV and IL abstentions.]] Let's vote on draft resolution No 1077 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the national wine sector. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against IL and PS, PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 1349 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of extraordinary support measures following adverse climate events in various northern and central districts. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 1448 / XIV / 3. a (PV) — Action plan for the conservation of sharks and strips in Portuguese waters. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u117	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u118	Mr. João Dias, do you ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u119	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on this draft which has been approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u120	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 672 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government that it pursue the establishment of a working group with a view to implementing a pilot project of unconditional basic income. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against PAN and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will vote for draft resolution No. 1478 / XIV / 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Ensure inclusive workplaces and employment opportunities for transsexuals. There is a PS requirement to vote on this draft resolution by points. I'm asking the ladies. Members would like to vote on the points one by one or all.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u121	Mr President, we can vote separately on point 1 and the rest together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u122	All right, Mr. Deputies. We shall then vote on point 1 of this draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Can we now vote on points 2, 3 and 4 together?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u123	Mr President, I request that we vote on point 2 separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u124	All right, Mr. Deputies. Let us therefore vote on point 2 of this draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] If there is no opposition, we shall vote together in points 3 and 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 1504 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — Inclusion of national citizens residing abroad in the public capitalisation regime. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 57 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent need to implement the financing of the new hospital for Madeira. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 1432 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Extension and requalification of Garcia de Orta Hospital. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1524 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — Consecrate October 18 as National Rehabilitation Nurse Day. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and BE abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u125	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u126	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u127	Mr President, that is to say that I am going to make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u128	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall continue with the vote on draft resolution No 642 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure that lawyers, trainees and applicants receive fair and fair remuneration for the services they provide under legal protection. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We will now vote for the Resolution Project No. 829 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare and submit to the Assembly of the Republic a study on the feasibility of the integration of the Law Box and applicants into social security. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, IL and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u129	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u130	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u131	Mr President, with regard to the votes of this last draft resolution and draft resolution No 612 / XIV / 2. the, presented by Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues, me and the Mrs. Deputies Miguel Costa Matos, Maria Begonha, Eduardo Barroco de Melo, Joël Gomes, Olavo Câmara, Sofia Andrade and Tiago Estêvão Martins will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u132	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Culture and Communication on Bills Nos 708 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Protection and recovery of the ravine and 800 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recognition and protection of the ravine and its cultural identity. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Health Committee on Bills Nos 71 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Amendment to the legal regime of the replacement pregnancy ( seventh amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ) and 247 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Ensure access to the pregnancy of replacement by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( assisted drug procreation ). [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PS, the BE, the PAN, the ENP, the IL, the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues abstained.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u133	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u134	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u135	Mr President, that is to say that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u136	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u137	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u138	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u139	It is for the same purpose, Mr President. I will also present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u140	It is also registered, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u141	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u142	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u143	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u144	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u145	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u146	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u147	Be registered, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u148	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u149	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u150	Mr President, on this last vote, concerning the pregnancy of substitution, the Left Block Parliamentary Group would like to request the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for claim.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u151	I wonder if anyone opposes this requirement of the Left Block. [[Pause.]] If there is no objection, then it is dispensed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u152	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u153	Mr. Mrs. Bebiana Cunha, is that the same request?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u154	Mr. President, yes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u155	So it's settled, Mrs. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will now proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Health Committee on draft resolution No 1420 / XIV2. a ( PS ) — Recommends the evaluation of health services provided under the cooperation agreement concluded between the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Serpa, ARS Alentejo, ARS do Algarve and the Local Health Unit of Low Alentejo. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP and ENP.]] We continue with the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 769 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Investment and requalification of Visconde de Salreu Hospital, 828 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By valuing Visconde Salreu Hospital, in Estarreja, 836 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — The reopening of the emergency service and the proper functioning of Visconde de Salreu Hospital ( Estarreja ) and 842 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Requalification of Visconde de Salreu Hospital. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We will continue with the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on draft resolutions Nos 743 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently implement the IC8 portion between Pombal and Avelar ( Ansião ), with the inclusion of a low-level access node in the Camporês Business Park, and proceed to the calibration of financial resources and 1173 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent implementation of the portion of the CI8 between Pombal and Avelar ( Ansião ) and the cabimentation of the necessary financial resources. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Before we proceed to the vote, I must announce that, as regards the overall final vote of the final text, submitted by the Health Committee on draft legislation No 71 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) and 247 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN ), Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, of the PSD, voted in favour, which does not alter the final outcome. We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Culture and Communication on draft resolution No 1588/IV/3. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government proceed in conjunction with the city of Carregal do Sal to an updated survey of financial and logistical needs in order to ensure national participation in the development of the project of requalification and museumization of Casa do Passal. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We continue with the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on draft resolutions Nos 1063 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — urgent dismantling of the Tavira Bar and the access channels to the ports of Santa Luzia and Cabanas and 1225 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of a dredging plan for the Algarve region. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on Bill No. 920 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Repeals the adept card by non-discrimination and stigmatization of citizens in sports premises ( fourth amendment to Law No 39 / 2009 of 30 July ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u156	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u157	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u158	Mr President, it is in order to request the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for complaints concerning this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u159	Is there any opposition to this request for exemption required by the Liberal Initiative? [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, it is dispensed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u160	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u161	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u162	Mr President, it is to announce that we intend to make an oral vote on this vote and to inform you that it will be made by Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u163	It will be done at the end of the vote, Mr President. We will move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolution No 1006 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Make recommendations to the Government and the Science and Technology Foundation aimed at an urgent strengthening of investment in science and the scientific community in Portugal. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and BE abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u164	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u165	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u166	Mr President, we would like to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u167	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we continue with the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Budget and Finance on Bill No 618 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Current account between taxpayers and the State. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance on Bill No 119 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Regulation of the application of special contributions for the year 2022. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against IL and the abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] Mr Telmo Correia asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u168	I did not ask for the floor, Mr President. I was still voting.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u169	Mr President, as you raised your arm, we deduced that it would be to ask for the floor. We then proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 1019 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government measures not to exclude women from drug procreation procedures assisted by delays due to the COVID-19 pandemic, 1093 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening the response of assisted public drug breeding centres, 1098 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to safeguard the future of drug procreation assisted in the SNS and 1105 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — PMA Activity Recovery Plan in context of COVID-19. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] Now yes, Mr Telmo Correia raised his arm and 'castanhelou'! Have you asked for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u170	Now yes, Mr President, that is to say that we will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u171	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 1066 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Creation of a national register of type 1 diabetes, 1213 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Creation of the national register of patients with type 1 diabetes, 1256 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Concretization of a national register of type 1 and 1443 / XIV / 2 diabetes. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the creation and implementation of a single national register of type 1 diabetes in Portugal. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 1203 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creation and implementation of an effective strategy of access to rehabilitation for survivors of stroke and 1303 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — National strategic plan for access to rehabilitation for stroke survivors. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 157 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Construction of the new hospital in Barcelos, 1503 / XIV / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary procedures for the construction of the new hospital in Barcelos and 1514 / XIV/3. a ( PCP ) — Construction of the new hospital in Barcelos. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] An old and prolonged struggle and aspiration of their populations. We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 943 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — It proposes measures to initiate the procedures for the construction of the new building, called Corpo G, of the hospital of Beja, and 1073 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Procedures for the expansion of José Joaquim Fernandes Hospital in Beja. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the general vote on the text of the replacement tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 91 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1937 on the protection of persons who report violations of Union law and drafts of Law No 866 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creation of the complainant's protection regime, 868 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creation of the suspended status and 879 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Approves the complainant’s protection status. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and votes against BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs Bebiana Cunha asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u172	Mr President, on our part, we would like to ask for a waiver of the final wording... [[Protests.]] We're still in the voting process... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote a little longer. Mrs. Members, we proceed to the special vote on the said replacement text, beginning with the vote on Article 2 ( 1 ( d ). o, the PSD requirement. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We shall now vote on Article 31. the replacement text, also the PSD requirement. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We shall vote in favour of the plenary of the indexary votes held at the Commission's special session. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have the overall final vote on the same replacement text. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and votes against BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs Bebiana Cunha asked for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u174	Mr President, at the right time, I would like to request the waiver of the final wording and the deadline for complaints.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u175	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask whether there is any objection to this request made by the Member of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u176	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u177	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u178	Mr President, the PSD Parliamentary Group does not accept the exemption.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u179	Not accepting...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u180	By not accepting, you are voting, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u181	Mr President, it would have to be accepted unanimously. Mr Telmo Correia also asked for the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u182	Mr President has already solved the problem, that is the case. We are one of the authors, but, on our part, we see no need to dispense with the final wording in this matter, rather.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u183	I still know something about the Rules of Procedure—although not much, but finally! [[Laughing.]] We continue with the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions Nos 1428 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Preparation of the plan for the planning of the protected landscape of the Montejunto greenhouse and 1512 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — By defending and valuing the protected area of the Montejunto greenhouse. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now have the final overall vote on the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions Nos 1034 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — For the defense and protection of the river Lis, 790 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a treatment and recovery station and of pig effluents for depollution of the river Lis river basin, 1020 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Urgent presentation of a solution to treat and value pig effluents contributing to the depollution of the Lis river basin, 1057 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS / PP ) — Recommends that the Government take all necessary and urgent measures to resolve immediately the environmental attacks in the Lis River basin and 1071 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By an action programme for depollution and requalification of the river Lis basin. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and NAP, IL and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] Mrs Bebiana Cunha asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u184	Mr President, it is to indicate that we are going to make a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u185	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We're going on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolution No 1513 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government ensure support for the social and business fabric affected by the closure of the Galp refinery in Matosinhos and safeguard the environmental sustainability of the territory. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft Law No 371 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — It proposes measures to extend the freeness of day care and equivalent solutions. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the vote against the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u186	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u187	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u188	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will make an oral statement on behalf of the CFP on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u189	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. It shall be done immediately before the end of the session. Mrs. Members, we now have to vote on the request from the Left Block initiative for the plenary of the vote on Article 1. Article 2 ( 2 ) and ( 2 ). the proposal to amend BE to Bill No 165 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Reduction in the age of reform of people with disabilities. To submit the request, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Block has fought for a law that respects disabled people. This struggle, which has been coming since 2016, had many voices, such as those of Jorge Falcato and José Manuel Pureza, but above all it had the voice of people with disabilities, who have broken the invisibility, built proposals, went to the fight and imposed on Parliament a debate that only falls late. We never forget these people, because it is with them and with them our commitment. On the day that this parliamentary process comes to an end, it is worth remembering how each party responded to the call of disabled people. When a clear word was needed in the defense of people with disabilities, it was the silence that united all right — PSD, CDS, Arrival and Liberal Initiative. The Socialist Party began by rejecting the proposal, which still went to the specialty where the PS did everything to limit its scope. In front of the right silence and the PS brake, it was the left that always responded by people with disabilities. The Block proposed the anticipation of the reform for those who are 60 % disabled and 55 years old. It was a fair and genuine proposal. We went to the specialty with the full conviction that we could still negotiate the feasibility of a proposal that would embrace all people with legally relevant disabilities, without having to leave anyone behind. All articles in the Block proposal were rejected by PS and PSD. But we have not given up and we now advocate essential points of these proposals, i.e. reform from 55 years old, with 60 % or more of disability. In its current form, the project that comes out of the specialty limits access to the anticipation of the reform to which it has more than 80 % disability, based on a fully obsolete multi-use attestation. The Block proposal, which this Parliament can approve today, even if limited by the intervention of the PS, guarantees justice for all people. Each person with a protected disability is a victory in the country and it is for them that, if the points we insist on voting are not approved, the final vote of the Left Block will be abstention. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u191	Following the presentation made by Mrs Diana Santos, we shall now vote on the application. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The special vote on the proposal submitted by BE, replacing Article 1, follows. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] [[It was as follows: Article 1 Subject and scope This Act defines a specific legal regime for access to old-age pensions for workers with a disability equal to or greater than 60%.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u192	We shall proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by BE, replacing Article 2 ( 2 ). the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — The provisions in the previous paragraph are limited to 55 years of age from which the right of such workers to an old-age pension may be recognised.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u193	We continue with the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft legislation n. all 165 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Reduction of the age of reform of people with disabilities, 588 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Conditions of access to reform for people with disabilities, 590 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Anticipation of the age of reform of disabled workers and 617 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Special scheme for access to early retirement for people with disabilities. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE and PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u194	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u195	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u196	Mr President, I would like to announce that a written statement of vote on this vote will be made by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u197	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u198	Mr President, to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will make an oral statement at the end of the sitting by Mrs Marta Freitas.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u199	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. It shall be done immediately before the end of the session.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u200	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u201	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u202	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will make an oral vote on this vote on behalf of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u203	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. João Oliveira asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u204	Mr President, I have only now realized that the overall final vote on this text that we have just voted on is missing here. We have just voted in the specialty and I think we can consider that this vote was the joint vote in the specialty and the global final.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u205	Yeah. That is what we are considering, Mr President. It was also the overall final vote on this final text.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u206	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u207	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u208	Mr President, I would like to announce that the PSD will also present an oral vote on this vote, which will be made by Mrs Carla Madureira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u209	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u210	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u211	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u212	Mr President, it is to clarify that the vote on the NAP was abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u213	It is clarified, Mrs. Deputy. Do not change the final result. We now have to vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 1219 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By the urgent establishment of an intensive care unit in the West Hospital Centre and 1248 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — For urgent intervention at the West Hospital Centre. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now proceed to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolution No 1440 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strategic plan for the General Hospital ( Covões ) of the Hospital Center and University of Coimbra. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u214	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u215	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u216	Mr President, I would like to announce that we will still present a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u217	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Health Committee, on draft resolution No 1515 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — The urgent construction of the central hospital of Algarve. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolution No 1502 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary procedures for the construction of the new central hospital in Algarve. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP and ENP.]] [[At the moment, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u218	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Health Committee on draft resolution Nos 663 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the opening of an emergency service at Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital, 719 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Reopening of the emergencies and strengthening of Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital in Ovar, and 733 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent start of the process to promote the necessary works in the operating block of Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital, Ovar, Aveiro district. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and IL abstentions.]] We will move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 610 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Measures to combat violence against health professionals and 617 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of a plan to prevent violence against health professionals at work. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote in global final vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on draft resolutions Nos 1255 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By the creation of the Algarve Ports Administration, integrating all commercial, fishing and recreational ports of the Algarve region and 1275 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the Algarve Ports Administration and the requalification and recovery of existing fishing and commercial ports in the region. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP, the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the Members of the PS Ana Passos, Francisco Pereira Oliveira and Luís Graça, the vote against the IL and the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] To vote on the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory, on Parliamentary Assessments Nos 48 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 49 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP and PEV ) and 50 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Decree-Law No 30 / 2021 of 7 May, which provides for the regulation of Law No 54 / 2015 of 22 June as regards mineral deposits. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS, CDS-PP and IL and the abstention from CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u219	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u220	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u221	Mr President, I would like to announce that the Parliamentary Group on Greens will make an oral vote through Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u222	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u223	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u224	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u225	It is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a written vote statement, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u226	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u227	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u228	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u229	Mr President, I would like to inform you that the PAN Parliamentary Group intends to make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u230	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Telmo Correia asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u231	Mr President, to inform us that we will make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u232	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u233	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u234	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u235	Mr President, I would like to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u236	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u237	For the same reason, Mr President. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will submit an oral vote at the end, which will be made by Mr Nuno Fazenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u238	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u239	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u240	Mr President, I would like to say that with regard to the final text submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, on the draft resolutions relating to the creation of the administration of the ports of Algarve, I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u241	It is registered, Mrs Deputy, although it does not alter the final result. Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u242	Mr President, I would like to inform you that we will present a written statement of vote on the last vote we have taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u243	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now vote on an application by the Left Block for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of Article 251 ( 3 ). the Labour Code, as set out in Article 2. the draft Law No 927 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extends the period of grounds for failure due to the death of a spouse, relative or relative ( 10th amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] With the approval of the application, we shall then vote in the speciality Article 251 ( 3 ). the Labour Code, as set out in Article 2. the draft Law No 927 / XIV / 2. a ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on Bills Nos 767 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the parental mourning regime and recognize the right to mourning in case of gestational loss, 926 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Change the system of mourning errors, making the seventh amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 927 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extends the period of deficiencies justified by the death of a spouse, relative or relative ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 949 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — By extending the period of absences justified by the death of spouse, relative or relative or gestational loss ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 993 / XIV/ 3. a ( PS ) — Increases the period of absence justified by the death of a descendant of 1. the degree in the straight or equal line ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No. 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 1018 / XIV / 3. a ( PSD ) — Extension of the period of deficiencies justified by the death of a child for 20 days, 1023 / XIV/ 3. a ( PCP ) — Extended days of fault due to the death of descendants 1. the degree of the line straight, spouse, ascending, relatives or related (thirteenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No. 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 1024 / XIV / 3. a ( IL) — Alter the scheme of errors justified by the death of a descendant and 1025 / XIV/ 3. a (CH) — Increases the mourning days provided for in the Labour Code and recognizes the right to mourning in case of gestational loss. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft resolutions Nos 412 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — By regulation of the profession of Portuguese Gestive Language Interpreter and 422 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Measures to achieve the rights of deaf people and to enhance the Portuguese Gestive Language interpreter profession. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u244	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u245	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u246	Mr President, I just wanted to say that, with regard to the previous vote, the PSD will present a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u247	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1449 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — For a national minimum salary of EUR 900. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] The vote was followed by a series of requests, but recently I was left with the idea that there were demands that fell, because they had not been approved, in general, some of them...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u248	It's been before, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u249	So, these demands will all be voted on... [[Pause.]] No objection, let's move on. We begin by voting on the application by the NAP for a full vote in the speciality of Bill No 181 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Regulates the lobbying activity and establishes a register of transparency and a mechanism of legislative footprint ( makes the first amendment to Organic Law No 4 / 2019 of 13 September and the fourth amendment to Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against the CDS-PP, PAN, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, PS Member Pedro Delgado Alves and PSD Deputies Duarte Marques and Margarida Balsairo Lopes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u250	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u251	To what effect, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u252	To note that I will make a statement of vote on this last vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u253	An oral vote, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u254	No, Mr. President, in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u255	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Duarte Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u256	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u257	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u258	Mr President, the NAP, then I would like to make an oral vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u259	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The vote on the application, submitted by the NAP, was followed by a vote by the plenary of the vote, in the specialty, of Bill No. 681 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Determines the prohibition on the practice of shooting at captive birds for the sole purpose of serving as a target and the creation of a counter-ordering regime, by amending Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September. [[Subject to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PCP, CH, IL and 32 PS Members (Ana Passos, António Gameiro, Clarise Campos, Cristina Jesus, Cristina Mendes da Silva, Cristina Sousa, Dora Brandão, Francisco Rocha, Hugo Costa, Joana Bento, João Azevedo, João Azevedo Castro, João Gouevaia, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, José Rui Cruz, Lucia Araújo Silva, Luís Moreira Testa, Mara Coelho, Marcos Perestrello, Maria da Graça Reis, Martina Jesus, Norberto Patinho, Olavo Câmara, Palmira Maciel, Pedro Coimbra, Pedro do Carmo, Raque Ferreira, Sant Torres Pacheiro, Sant Torres Pacheiro, Bracheiro, Síro]] Let us then proceed to the vote, in the specialty, of Bill No. 681 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ) and which is set out in Supplement II. Let us begin by voting on the proposal tabled by the NAP amending Article 1. or...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u260	Mr President, I am sorry, but I believe that the vote on this bill can be taken together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u261	Can all the proposals be voted on together in the specialty?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u262	Mr President, I am sorry, but we are only asking for a moment to do this. We understand the kindness of Mr. João Oliveira's proposal, but, as there are alternative proposals in some articles, it is not liquid that we can vote together. We therefore ask only, perhaps, two minutes, to see if it is possible to make a joint vote, but it seems to us that we do not, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u263	I believe that, as long as there is an express will of the plenary to do so, one can vote in a bloc, in the specialty. We have done this several times, and we will therefore proceed to the special vote on the proposals put forward by the NAP as amended by Articles 1. o, 2. o is 3. this bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and 15 Members of the PS (António Gameiro, Cristina Jesus, Dora Brandão, Hugo Costa, João Azevedo Castro, João Gouveia, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barretto, Luís Moreira Testa, Marcos Perestrello, Martina Jesus, Norberto Patinho, Olavo Câmara, Pedro do Carmo and Vera Braz).]] [[Article 1 Subject This Act prohibits the practice of shooting at the flight of released pigeons for the purpose of serving as a target and creates a counter-ordering regime, for the purpose of amending Law No 92/95 of 12 September, as amended by Laws Nos 19/2002 of 31 July, 69/2014 of 29 August, and 39/2020 of 18 August. Article 2 Amendment to Law No 92/95 of 12 September Article 1 of Law No 92/95 of 12 September is amended in its current wording, which is replaced by the following: ‘Article 1 [...] 1 — [...] 2 — [...] 3 — Acts consisting of: (a) [...]; (b) [...]; (c) [...]; (d) [...]; (e) [...]; (f) [...]; (g) Use pigeons as a target in the sport practice of flying, including training and testing. Article 3 of Law No 92/95 of 12 September Articles 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 and 16 of Law No 92/95 of 12 September shall be added with the following wording: ‘Article 11 Surveillance 1 — Without prejudice to the powers conferred by law on other entities, it shall be up to ICNF, I.P, DGAV, veterinary doctors, municipal chambers, ESAE, GNR, PSP, Municipal Police and in general to all police authorities to ensure that the rules contained in this diploma are complied with. 2 — For the purpose of monitoring compliance with this Law, access by the competent authorities to places where animals are presumably located and or where they are used for the sport of flying shooting or evidence of such action should be given, without prejudice to the special rules in force, in particular in the context of counter-ordinations and crimes against pet animals. 3 — If access to the premises is refused, a court order may be sought in accordance with Article 1a(2) of this Law, and without prejudice to the application of the procedural procedure applicable to counter-ordinations and crimes against pet animals. Article 12 Counter-ordering scheme 1 — Infringements under this law constitute counter-ordination punishable with a fine of (euro) 200 to (euro) 3740, in the case of natural persons, and (euro) 500 to (euro) 44 800, in the case of a legal person, if the most serious penalty is not provided for by law. 2 —... 3 —... 4 — Without prejudice to the maximum amounts fixed, the fine should, where possible, exceed the economic benefit that the agent withdrew from the practice of the wrongful act. This is exactly what I had to say.... Article 14 Procedural processing 1 — [...]. 2 — It is up to the president of the municipal chamber to apply fines and ancillary sanctions and may be delegated to any of its members or municipal leaders. Article 15 [...] [...]: (a) 10/prct. (b) 60/prct. for the entity that instructed the process; (c) [...]. ‘.’;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u264	Mrs. Members, having approved the proposals submitted by the NAP, we will not proceed to the vote on the articles of the bill and, therefore, we will proceed to the global final vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u265	Mr. President, may I...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u266	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u267	Mr President, you are right partly because the proposals tabled by the NAP are adopted amending Articles 1. o, 2. o is 3. the, but articles 4. o is 5. they need to be voted on. Then, yes, we can move on to the global final vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u268	So, let's vote together in the specialty, articles 4. o is 5. Who votes against? [[Pause.]] They vote against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the CH, the IL and the Mrs. Deputies of the PS Pedro do Carmo, João Azevedo Castro, António Gameiro, Joaquim Barreto, Marcos Perestrello, Martina Jesus, Norberto Patinho, Luís Moreira Testa and Olavo Camera. Who's away? [[Pause.]] No one. Who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] They vote in favour of the PS, the PAN, the unregistered Members... I think it's insufficient and therefore...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u269	I'm sorry, Mr. President. We were voting on articles 4 in the specialty. o is 5. o or...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u270	We were voting on Articles 4 together. o is 5. or...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u271	I'm sorry, we voted in favour, yes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u272	What do you mean, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u273	We were voting on articles 4. o is 5. the, in the specialty, and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group votes in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u274	Yes, but the articles were rejected in it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u275	No, Mr. President. How many votes were against? [[Pause.]] They have been approved, Mr President. The vote was the same as the previous one. So even with the Members of the Socialist Party who...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u276	No, because the PSD voted differently.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u277	No, Mr. President, I'm sorry. Even with the votes of the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party who voted against the remaining votes of the PS, those of the Left Block, those of the ENP and those of the non-registered Members give, by my own account, 116...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u278	The PCP and the Left Block voted in favour? It's just you didn't get it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u279	I apologize, then, for repeating the vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u280	So let's repeat the vote and please signal, because if you don't, you don't get it. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, BE, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH, IL and 9 PS (António Gameiro, João Azevedo Castro, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Marcos Perestrello, Martina Jesus, Norberto Patinho, Olavo Câmara and Pedro do Carmo).]] Therefore, Articles 4 were approved. o is 5. We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of this Bill No. 681 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Determines the prohibition on the practice of shooting at captive birds for the sole purpose of serving as a target and the creation of a counter-ordering regime by amending Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September with the amendments adopted. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and 10 Members of the PS (António Gameiro, Hugo Costa, João Azevedo Castro, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Marcos Perestrello, Martina Jesus, Norberto Patinho, Olavo Câmara and Pedro do Carmo).]] The following is the vote on an application by the NAP for a full vote in the speciality of Bill No 883 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — regulates the brokerage and accommodation in balconies and similar spaces of pets, making the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 276/2001 of 17 October.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u281	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u282	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u283	Mr President, with due understanding of the draft law previously approved, we would like to request the waiver of final drafting and the time limit for the complaint.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u284	If there's consensus... [[Pause.]] There is no consensus. Signs have been made that there is no consensus. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the request submitted by the NAP for a vote by the plenary of the Bill No 883 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — regulates the brokerage and accommodation in balconies and similar spaces of pets, making the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 276/2001 of 17 October. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP and PEV.]] We proceed to the vote of another request, submitted by the NAP, of a lawyer by the plenary of the vote, in the specialty, of Bill No 999 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN) — Recognizes and regulates the figure of the Community animal, reduces the claim period for unidentified animals collected in the CROs, and assigns the State the charge with the sterilization programmes of errant or Community animals, making the first amendment to Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August to the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 276 / 2001 of 17 October 2001 to the second amendment to Decree-Law No 82 / 2019 of 27 June and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 314 / 2003 of 17 December. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PAN, ENP, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 1 PSD (Pedro Pinto), votes against PSD, CH, IL and 7 PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Francisco Rocha, João Azevedo Castro, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa and Pedro do Carmo) and abstentions from PCP and CDS-PP.]] We moved on to additional script IV. Let's do it like we just...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u285	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u286	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u287	Mr President, it was precisely to suggest that we vote together on all the NAP proposals and then on the rest together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u288	That's what I was going to propose, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. We shall vote together on the proposed amendments to the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u289	Mr President, I do not know whether I am in a position to vote together on all the proposed amendments to the NAP. Give me a second, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u290	I don't understand, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u291	Mr President proposed that all the proposed amendments to the NAP should be voted on together and I do not know whether I can accede to that request. Just a moment, please. [[Pause.]] No, Mr. President, it is not possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u292	But is it possible to vote together, except one or two? We're not going to vote case by case, or we're not getting out of here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u293	Mr President, this is perhaps a good time to say that these avocados on the last day also cause absolutely inhuman work for the services and offices of the parliamentary groups. So if you want me to respond very quickly to your request, with all the logic, I must say that... it's very complex to do this work at 1 a.m. It's absolutely inhuman. I want to keep the indignation recorded. So, Mr President, I will need more time to answer your question, or then we started to vote on the proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u294	Mr. Deputy, all right. We'll do that. We can be here by the time you guys are. Ladies and gentlemen, we want...! We shall vote on Article 1. the draft Law No 999 / XIV / 3. a [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP, CH, IL and 10 PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Francisco Rocha, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Martina Jesus and Pedro do Carmo), votes in favour of BE, PAN, non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 1 PSD (Pedro Pinto) and PS, PCP and PEV abstentions were rejected.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you should be looking at what will be followed by the number of votes that we have to do, right? Mr. Member of the Liberal Initiative, that is also why the abstentions are sometimes served. But the honourable Member will know... We shall proceed to the vote on Article 2. the Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August, as set out in Article 2. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP, CH, IL and 10 PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Francisco Rocha, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Martina Jesus and Pedro do Carmo), votes in favour of BE, PAN, non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 1 PSD (Pedro Pinto) and PS, PCP and PEV abstentions were rejected.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP amending Article 3. the Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August, as set out in Article 2. the draft law. [[Submitted to the vote, the CDS-PP, CH, IL and 10 PS (António Gameiro, Ascenso Simões, Francisco Rocha, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Martina Jesus and Pedro do Carmo), votes in favour of BE, PAN, non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 1 PSD (Pedro Pinto) and PS, PCP and PEV abstentions abstained.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 3 [...] 1 — The animals collected by the official animal collection centres which are not claimed by their owners within 8 days of their collection, continuously counted from the date of their collection, are presumed to be abandoned and are mandatoryly sterilized and referred to for adoption, without the right to compensation of the holders. 2 — Upon expiry of the period of complaint, the animals referred to in the previous paragraph may, in accordance with the opinion of a veterinary doctor at the service of the municipality, be transferred free of charge by the municipal chambers or official animal collection centres, either to persons, individuals, or to legal persons, or also to public entities or private organisations, provided that in any case they have conditions that safeguard the welfare of animals. 3 —... 4 — The slaughter or killing of animals in official animal collection centres for reasons of overpopulation, overcrowding, economic incapacity or other impeding normal detention by their holder shall be prohibited, except for reasons relating to the health status, in the circumstances referred to in paragraph 6 or with serious behavioural changes whose recovery is determined, by veterinary physician or animal behavior specialist, inappropriate in the particular case and which compromise their well-being or safety of persons or other animals, making their referral for assignment and adoption inadmissible. 5 —... 6 —.... 7 —... 8 —.... 9 —.... 10 —....’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u295	The vote on Article 3 shall follow. the Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August, as set out in Article 2. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP, CH, IL and 10 PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Francisco Rocha, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Martina Jesus and Pedro do Carmo), votes in favour of BE, PAN, non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 1 PSD (Pedro Pinto) and PS, PCP and PEV abstentions were rejected.]] We also voted in special terms on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 4. the Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August, as set out in Article 2. o [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP, CH and 10 PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Francisco Rocha, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Martina Jesus and Pedro do Carmo), votes in favour of BE, PAN, PEV, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 1 PSD (Pedro Pinto) and PS, PCP and IL abstentions were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 4... 1— The State, for public health and animal welfare reasons, shall ensure, through the official animal collection centres, the capture, vaccination, electronic identification and sterilization of errant animals, where necessary, as well as the implementation of catch, sterilization and return programmes (CED) for cats and sterilization, vaccination and return of Community animals. 2 —... 3 — The programmes referred to in paragraph one shall be carried out on the initiative of the municipal chambers or on the proposal of individuals, singular or collective, to whom the municipal chamber assigns the respective management of animal protection organisation or, in the case of Community animals, of a person, singular or collective, public or private, or of a community of residents or caregivers, under the supervision of the municipal veterinarian. 4 — For the purposes of the above paragraphs, in particular the feeding of colony or Community animals, the State, through the municipal chambers, freguesa boards or in partnership with animal protection associations and/or groups of volunteers, shall ensure the existence of a social animal feeding programme as a remedy for the caregivers of such animals in order to provide food for such animals.’;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u296	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 4. the Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August, as set out in Article 2. o [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and 10 PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Francisco Rocha, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Martina Jesus and Pedro do Carmo), votes in favour of BE, PAN, PEV, Non-registered Deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 1 PSD (Pedro Pinto) and PS, PCP and IL abstentions.]] So far, we have been voting the same as each other. It's just to say we're repeating the same votes. Thank you very much! We shall proceed to the vote on the body of Article 2. the draft law.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u297	Mr President, since the articles and amendments relating to Article 2 have been rejected. the draft law, the voting of the body of article 2 is impaired. o
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u298	You're absolutely right. This is another vote that is not taken in this case. We then move on to Article 3. the draft law. Let us begin with the special vote on the proposal tabled by the NAP amending Article 2. the Decree-Law No. 276 / 2001 of 17 October, as set out in Article 3. o [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP, CH and 10 PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Francisco Rocha, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Martina Jesus and Pedro do Carmo), votes in favour of BE, PAN, IL, non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 1 PSD (Pedro Pinto) and PS, PCP and PEV abstentions were rejected.]] [[The following was the following: ‘Article 2... 1— [...] (a) [...]; (b) [...]; (c) [...]; (d) [...]; (e) [...]; (f) [...]; (g) [...]; (i) [...]; (j) [...]; (l) [...]; (m) [...]; (n) [...]; (o) [...]; (q) [...]; (r) [...]; (u) [...]; (v) [...]; (v) [...]; (y) [...]; (z) [...]; (a) [...]; (b) [...]; (c) [...]; (dd) [...]; (e) [...]; (e) [...]; (ff) ‘Animal Community’ any animal authorised by the municipal chamber to remain in restricted areas and by public channels, to which the animal is used and where it is integrated, the maintenance, feeding and medical-veterinary care are provided by individuals, singular or public or private, or by a community of residents or caregivers, under the supervision of the municipal veterinarian. 2 —... 3 —... 4 —....’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u299	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 2. the Decree-Law No. 276 / 2001 of 17 October, as set out in Article 3. o [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP, CH, IL and 10 PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Francisco Rocha, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Martina Jesus and Pedro do Carmo), votes in favour of BE, PAN, non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 1 PSD (Pedro Pinto) and PS, PCP and PEV abstentions were rejected.]] We are now voting on the proposal tabled by the NAP to amend Article 19 in the specialty. the Decree-Law No. 276 / 2001 of 17 October, as set out in Article 3. o [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP, CH and 10 PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Francisco Rocha, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Martina Jesus and Pedro do Carmo), votes in favour of BE, PAN, IL, non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 1 PSD (Pedro Pinto) and PS, PCP and PEV abstentions were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 19... 1 — [...]. 2 — Good practice rules for the capture and slaughter of pet animals shall be made available by the ICNF to municipal veterinary doctors within 30 days of the date of publication of this diploma. 3 —... 4 — [repealed]. 5 — [repealed]. 6 —.... 7 —... 8 —.... 9 — [repealed]. 10 — [repealed]’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u300	The vote on Article 19 shall follow. the Decree-Law No. 276 / 2001 of 17 October, as set out in Article 3. o [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, CDS-PP, CH and 10 PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Francisco Rocha, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Martina Jesus and Pedro do Carmo), votes in favour of BE, PAN, non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 1 PSD (Pedro Pinto) and PS, PCP, IL and PEV abstentions.]] We voted in particular on the proposal submitted by the NAP to amend Article 20. the Decree-Law No. 276 / 2001 of 17 October, as set out in Article 3. [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP, CH and 10 PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Francisco Rocha, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Martina Jesus and Pedro do Carmo), votes in favour of BE, PAN, IL, non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 1 PSD (Pedro Pinto) and PS, PCP and PEV abstentions were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 20 Community Animal 1 — As an integrated measure in the management of the population of errant animals, municipal chambers may, in the opinion of the municipal veterinarian and whenever animal welfare is safeguarded, as well as public health, the safety of persons, other animals and goods, authorise the stay of any animal in a public area to which the animal is used and where it is integrated. 2 — The authorization referred to in the previous paragraph shall be obtained through the request of a person, singular or collective, public or private, or community of residents or caregivers, who shall be obliged to ensure the maintenance, maintenance and medical-veterinary care of the same under the exact terms and conditions which are protocoled with the municipal chamber, and under the supervision of the municipal veterinarian. 3 —... 4 —... 5 —... 6 —....’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u301	We now have the special vote on Article 20. the Decree-Law No. 276 / 2001 of 17 October, as set out in Article 3. o [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP, CH, IL and 10 PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Francisco Rocha, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Martina Jesus and Pedro do Carmo), votes in favour of BE, PAN, non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 1 PSD (Pedro Pinto) and PS, PCP and PEV abstentions were rejected.]] We also vote in favour of Article 68. the Decree-Law No. 276 / 2001 of 17 October, as set out in Article 3. o [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP, CH, IL and 10 PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Francisco Rocha, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Martina Jesus and Pedro do Carmo), votes in favour of BE, PAN, PEV, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 1 PSD (Pedro Pinto) and PS and PCP abstentions were rejected.]] The voting on the body of Article 3 shall therefore be adversely affected. the, so we will now vote on Article 4. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and 10 PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Francisco Rocha, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Martina Jesus and Pedro do Carmo), votes in favour of BE, PAN, non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 1 PSD (Pedro Pinto) and PS, PCP, PEV and IL abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u302	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u303	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u304	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that, from now on, and with the exclusion of the overall final vote, we shall be able to vote together on the remaining articles and amendments in the script.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u305	Finally, a little fresh air. If there is no objection, then we shall proceed to the joint vote in the speciality of the proposal submitted by the NAP amending Article 2. the Decree-Law No 314 / 2003 of 17 December, of Article 2. the same decree as Article 5. the draft law, the proposal submitted by the NAP, amending Article 7. the same decree of law, articles 7. o, 8. it's 9. the same decree, as set out in Article 5. the draft law, the body of article 5. the and Articles 6. o, 7. it's 8. the same bill. [[Subject to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and 10 PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Francisco Rocha, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Martina Jesus and Pedro do Carmo), votes in favour of BE, PAN, IL, non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 1 PSD (Pedro Pinto) and PS, PCP and PEV abstentions.]] [[These were the following: Proposal submitted by the NAP amending Article 2 of Decree-Law No 314/2003 of 17 December 2003. ‘Article 2(...(a) [...]; (b) [...]; (c) [...]; (d) [...]; (e) [...]; (f) [...]; (g) [...]; (i) [...]; (j) [...]; (l) [...]; (n) [...]; (o) [...]; (p) [...]; (q) ‘Community dog or cat’ which is expressly authorised by the municipal chamber to remain in a public space, to which the animal is used and where it is integrated, whose maintenance, food and veterinary medical care are ensured by a person, singular or collective, public or private, or community of residents or caregivers, under the supervision of the municipal veterinarian.’ — Proposal, submitted by the NAP, amending Article 7 of Decree-Law No 314/2003 of 17 December 2003. ‘Article 7... 1 —... 2 —... 3 —... 4 —... 5 — Community dogs and cats shall bear a necklace indicating their quality as a Community animal, the telephone contact of the official collection centre and, with an optional character, of one of the caregivers.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u306	Let's move on to the global final vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u307	Since the articles of the draft law and the proposed amendments submitted by the NAP have not been approved in the specialty, the overall final vote of the draft law is adversely affected.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u308	There is, then, no comprehensive final vote of Bill No 999 / XIV / 3. a, the NAP. More good news! We will now vote on the application by the PAN for a full vote in the speciality of Bill No 764 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Determines the obligation of the installation of fire detection system on livestock holdings of classes 1 and 2, on an intensive basis, by making the fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 220 / 2008 of 12 November 2008. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD, PCP, PEV, CH, IL and 13 members of PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Clarisse Campos, Francisco Rocha, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Mara Coelho, Martina Jesus, Pedro do Carmo and Telma Guerreiro) and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We then switched to additional script V. I'm asking the ladies. Members if we can vote together on the amendments contained in this script. [[Pause.]] With no objection, we shall vote together in the speciality on the following proposals submitted by the NAP : amending Article 1. the replacement of Article 2. Article 3 shall be replaced by Article 3. the draft law. I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] They vote against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the IL, the CH, the PCP, the ENP and the Sr. Members referred to above. I Ask Whom Will You Stand Away? [[Pause.]] No one's going away. I ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] They vote in favour of PS, PAN, BE, and Members of Parliament not enrolled Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments tabled by the NAP have been approved in the specialty, so we will proceed to the global final vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u309	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u310	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u311	Mr President, I ask you, please, to tell us the number of PS Members who voted against, because on my account, when that number is joined by the other Members who voted against, it prevents the approval of the diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u312	We shall then repeat the joint vote on the following proposals by the NAP : amending Article 1. the replacement of Article 2. Article 3 shall be replaced by Article 3. the draft Law No 764 / XIV / 2. a [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and 15 PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Clarisse Campos, Francisco Rocha, Hugo Costa, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Mara Coelho, Martina Jesus, Olavo Câmara, Pedro do Carmo and Telma Guerreiro).]] [[These are the following: Proposal, submitted by the NAP, amending Article 1 of the draft law. Article 1 Subject This Act establishes the obligation to install fire detection systems in places where animals are held in Class 1 and Class 2 livestock holdings, under intensive arrangements, for the purpose of the second amendment of Decree-Law No 64/2000 of 22 April as amended by Decree-Law No 155/2008 of 7 August 2008 transposing Council Directive No 98/58/EC of 20 July laying down common minimum rules for the protection of animals in livestock holdings. — Proposal submitted by the NAP to replace Article 2 of the draft law. Article 2 Amendment to Decree-Law No 64/2000 of 22 April Article 8 and Annex A to Decree-Law No 64/2000 of 22 April 2000 shall be amended as follows: ‘Article 8 [...] 1 — [...]: 2 — [...]. 3 —... 4 — Failure to fulfil the obligations laid down in Article 5 in accordance with paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 25 of Annex A to this Decree, of which it is an integral part, constitutes a penalty counter-ordination with a fine of EUR 250 or 2000 and a maximum of EUR 3740 or EUR 44,890, depending on whether the agent is a natural or legal person. 5 —... 6 —.... 7 —... 8 —.... 9 —.... 10 —.... 11 —.... 12 —.... ANNEX TO HUMAN RESOURCES 1 —.... Inspection 2 — [...]. 3 —... 4 —... 5 —... Registries 6 — [...]. 7 —... Freedom of movement 8 — [...]. 9 —.... Facilities and accommodation 10 — [...]. 11 —.... 12 —.... 13 —... Animals created outdoors 14 [...]. Automatic or mechanical equipment 15 — All automatic or mechanical equipment indispensable for animal health and well-being, including fire detection systems, shall be inspected at least once a day and any defects detected shall be corrected immediately or, where not possible, steps shall be taken to safeguard animal health and welfare. 16 —.... Food, water and other substances 17 — [...]. 18 —.... 19 —.... 20 —... 21 —.... Mutilations 22 — [...]. Reproduction proceedings 23 — [...]. 24 —.... Fire detection system 25 — Class 1 and Class 2 livestock holdings on an intensive basis pursuant to Annex I to Law Decree No 81/2013 of 14 June shall have fire detection systems in places where the animals are held.’ — Proposal submitted by the NAP replacing Article 3 of the Bill. Article 3 Transitional arrangements The livestock facilities referred to in point 25 of Annex A, which already exist, have a period of one year after the entry of this law to implement fire detection systems.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u313	Mrs. Members, the amendments tabled by the NAP have been approved in the speciality. We shall proceed to the vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u314	Mr President, we have just voted on the amendments to the NAP and we will now have to vote on Article 4. the draft law, before we move on to the global final vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u315	Let us then vote on Article 4. the draft law. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and 15 members of PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Clarise Campos, Francisco Rocha, Hugo Costa, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Mara Coelho, Martina Jesus, Olavo Câmara, Pedro do Carmo and Telma Guerreiro).]] Let us now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of Bill No 764 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Determines the obligation of the installation of fire detection system on livestock holdings of classes 1 and 2, on an intensive basis, by making the fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 220 / 2008 of 12 November 2008 with the amendments adopted in the meantime. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and 15 members of PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Clarise Campos, Francisco Rocha, Hugo Costa, Joana Bento, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Nicolau, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa, Mara Coelho, Martina Jesus, Olavo Câmara, Pedro do Carmo and Telma Guerreiro).]] Then we will vote on the application by the PAN for a full vote in the specialty of Bill No. 989 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — Establishs the mandatory remuneration of professional internships for access to the exercise of the profession by making the first amendment to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January and the statutes of various professional public associations. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP and PEV.]] The vote on the request by the PCP shall be followed, for the fuller vote in the speciality of the Bill No 525 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens workers'rights ( tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ). To submit the request, Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u316	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP presented the draft law on combating precariousness because workers need a solution to their problems. They need a solution for their employment contracts to be recognised, so that they do not have to live subject to term contracts and temporary work, so as not to be subject to blackmail and uncertainty of an experimental period of 180 days or of very short-term contracts, so that companies cannot fire and hire their be enjoyed. There are solutions to these problems and the CFP has brought them to discussion. They are solutions for a left-wing policy and they are, in fact, part of the core of any policy that wants to be classified as left-wing. And we're just not voting for a law that gives a left-wing response to job insecurity because the PS decided to join their votes to the right to lead these solutions. After approving in June, in general, the PCP bill, after highlighting the importance of the solutions presented, after filling out speeches, claiming a party of left-wing policies, the PS gives the saying by not saying and joins the PSD, the CDS, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival and completely leads the solutions to combat work precariousness. It is not in the speech that the left-hand proof of the political options is made, it is in the concrete solutions that come true that this evidence is made. Ladies and gentlemen. PS Members, it is not the PCP that the PS fails, it is the workers and the solutions to a left-wing policy that serves workers and their rights. To the hundreds of thousands of workers who today see the PS fail them, the message we leave to them is that our struggle continues. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u317	Let's vote on the PCP requirement. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the vote against the IL.]] So we moved on to additional script VII. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, if we can proceed to the joint vote on the articles in this script. [[Pause.]] There is no objection, so let us vote together, in the speciality, articles 1. a 6. the draft Law No 525 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens workers'rights ( tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against the PCP, BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] Since the articles of the draft law were rejected, their overall final vote was adversely affected.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u318	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u319	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u320	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present, on behalf of the honourable Members. PS Members who voted against, a written declaration of vote on the requests that gave rise to additional scripts II, III, IV and V.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u321	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, paragraphs 81 to 92 of the Journal are hereby approved for plenary meetings of 24, 25 and 30 June, 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 20, 21 and 22 July and 9 September. [[Pause.]] [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] At the end of the vote, we now have the oral explanations of vote. The first statement of vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on Bill No. 920 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Repeals the bill of admission for non-discrimination and stigmatization of citizens in sports premises ( fourth amendment to Law No 39 / 2009 of 30 July ), Mrs Alma Rivera. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u322	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When in 2019 the law on combating violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sports shows was changed with the introduction by the Government of new instruments, among other issues, we have been against and we have tried to eliminate false solutions such as the card of the subscriber and their special areas. We rejected the inconceivable similarity of messages of racist content, xenophobic or incitement to violence, to manifestations of political ideology. at that time, we were alone, but however, the reality and implementation of the new model demonstrated how true the fans were and was right the PCP. Two weeks ago, there was a chance again to discuss the matter. The PCP project, the only one that responded to the overall problem and corrected the error committed, was not approved because the Socialist Party did not want to. from the process of specialty however done, and from what it results, we highlight the end of the card of the adept, that we greet and that is a victory of the followers. On the contrary, we do not ignore what remains to be done: if, on the one hand, there is a lack of serious reflection and the adoption of effective mechanisms to combat violent and discriminatory phenomena, on the other hand, stigmatization and segregation remain, by the will of the PS and the PSD, with other forms of identification. With concern, we highlight the option of PS, PSD and CDS not to want to remove the prohibition of political manifestations of this law. But even more repudiation we pointed out when an alternative was sought to make it clear that what must be banned is manifestations of fascist ideology, as is stated in the Constitution. There, the Liberal Initiative joined the PS, PSD and CDS and, together, dropped this change — a real shame! Sports, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it has always been a popular expression and freedom, and even at the time of the dictatorship they have been able to prevent students from using a game to protest against fascism. It will certainly not be now that will limit the will and expression of people. Finally, I would like to say the following: violence in sport is not an isolated phenomenon and all and any such conduct must deserve firm combat, not only from a punitive perspective, from surveillance or from supervision, but, above all, from a preventive and monitoring perspective close to these phenomena, which is a responsibility of the State and which must be taken on a priority and transversal basis. For that, which is the real debate, they can count on the CFP and its ever seriousity. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u323	For a declaration of vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft Law No 371 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Proposals for measures to extend the free movement of day care facilities and similar solutions, has the floor of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we voted for the free of charge of daycare for all children, regardless of the steps, a achievement that is inseparable from the proposal, from the intervention and persistence of the CFP to achieve this objective. A proposal that did not include the PS electoral programme or the PS government programme and that only the PCP's insistence on its implementation today allows the freeness of daycare for all children to be a reality, of enormous importance to children and families. We have put forward, more than once, proposals for all children to have access to day care free of charge, implementing a right of children, alleviating the burdens that families have on day care and contributing to the encouragement of birth. At different times, this extension of freeness has been rejected. But we did not give up, and today this insistence has borne fruit, with the approval of this law. There is another dimension of the CFP proposal that has not been approved, the implementation of a public network of day care centres and the creation of 100 000 vacancies to respond to the continuing shortcomings. But here we will be to fight for a public network, which represents the fulfilment of a social function of the State which it must call upon, in its management and operation, without prejudice to the complementary role that must be played by the institutions of social solidarity. In a country with a serious demographic deficit, free access to day care is a safe element for families who wish to have the first child, as well as for those who, having children in these age groups, wish to have more children. The CFP has, and throughout this process, had a central and irreplaceable role. This is another demonstration that has been worth and is worth fighting. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u325	A series of explanations of vote on the final text, submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security, relating to the Draft Law No, follow. all 165 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Reduction of the age of reform of people with disabilities, 588 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Conditions of access to reform for people with disabilities, 590 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Anticipation of the age of reform of disabled workers and 617 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Special scheme for access to early retirement for people with disabilities. To that end, Mrs Marta Freitas of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor, firstly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u326	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are taking an important step in promoting more justice and dignity to people with disabilities. This approval of an early retirement age scheme for disabled people is a recognition of the effort and wear and the worsening of the health condition, meanings by those people with a high degree of disability and who are in an advanced phase of active life and with a substantial professional course. Today, the Socialist Party fulfills what it has promised and that it intends to have carried out at the headquarters of the State Budget for 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u327	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u328	Today, we have approved the scheme for early retirement age due to disability, thus ensuring that persons with disabilities, with a disability equal to or greater than 80%, have an early access to 60 years, without any penalties, i.e. without the penalty of the sustainability factor, nor the monthly penalty due to anticipation of the normal retirement age. It was a great first step, given with responsibility and certainty. The responsibility to ensure that we do not endanger the sustainability of social security and that we will promote more justice and dignity to people with disabilities. It is with this same responsibility and we know that there are no objective conditions to follow the proposal of the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u329	Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u330	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have seen today the adoption of a proposal on early reform of disabled people, but we regret that this proposal has fallen far short of what the demands of disabled people and their representative organisations are. The NAP proposal followed these same claims, without any penalty to persons who, at least 55 years of age, had a disability equal to or greater than 60 % and had a minimum of 20 years of effective contribution, in which they were unable in 15 years. We recognize what are the demands and the daily, physical, emotional and psychological wear, to which people with disabilities are exposed, as well as we recognize that the aging of people with disabilities is aggravated with the complications resulting from greater limitations, e.g. mobility, which inevitably aggravates their overall state of health and requires greater needs of clinical and pharmacological therapies. Therefore, the NAP has since left its commitment to continue to fight for the rights of persons with disabilities in the next legislature, working with their respective representative organizations and entities, so that all barriers are eliminated and true inclusion of all and all are guaranteed. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u331	Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u332	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has followed the final text that introduces the regime of access to early retirement for people with disabilities. This is a PSD issue. Today, we are taking a first step towards justice for people with disabilities, who have more difficulties in access to work and often make an increased effort in the performance of their duties. But the PSD is a responsible party. However, with the responsibility that characterizes us and does not have a study confirming the number of people who would benefit from this measure, nor the costs that this measure would add, the PSD believes that it should be more cautious. But he also believes that this was an important step towards improving the lives of people with disabilities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u333	We now turn to the explanations of vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on Parliamentary Assessments Nos 48 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 49 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP and PEV ) and 50 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Decree-Law No 30 / 2021 of 7 May, which provides for the regulation of Law No 54 / 2015 of 22 June as regards mineral deposits. For this purpose, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens follow the amendments to Decree-Law No. 30 / 2021 of 7 May which is the regulation of Law No. 54 / 2015 of 22 June with regard to mineral deposits, but regret that it was not possible to go further in the approval of the proposals we have tabled. We considered that our proposed amendments would contribute to ensuring that the knowledge and use of geological resources were at the service of a harmonious development of the country and a real improvement in the lives of populations, without incompatibility and destruction of natural wealth, fundamental wealth to life. Unfortunately, in this process, decision makers are stripped of the mirage of innovative futures, where money runs and weakens their ability to see the seriousness of the environmental and social consequences of these decisions. For the Greens, it was essential to advance in the regulation of the basic mining law, Decree-Law No. 30 / 2021, with the approval of proposals, such as that the environmental impact assessment took place before the signing of the operating contract, which should obviously be seen as a determining instrument to support the decision, or, for example, that of defending the public interest, clarifying the rights of applicants in the various contractual stages of prospecting, research and exploitation, eliminating the tie that the regulatory diploma introduced into the regulation of Law No. 54 / 2015 of 22 June, or as many other proposals that we made. However, the Greens have contributed to some proposals so that this law will become closer to respect for the will of the people. We have reinforced that it was necessary to go further in these amendments. It was not possible, but the Greens will continue to fight for the defence of natural resources and ensure the quality of life of the populations. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u335	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u336	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the parliamentary assessment of the mine law, the NAP cannot fail to regret that a number of proposals have not been made to guarantee not only the rights of the people but also the environmental values. from the NAP, we presented three very concrete proposals. Of course, that no mining interventions were allowed in environmentally sensitive areas, which seems to us to be of the most elementary reasonableness, considering that there are already some contracts concluded, either for the area of serra d’Arga, or for the area of serra da Argemela, which call into question protected areas and even areas that are currently with processes for the classification of them as the immaterial cultural heritage of humanity. On the other hand, the NAP proposes here to ensure a distance of 5 km between the populations and the site of the holding. Anyone who goes to Argemela's greenhouse realizes that we're going to have a hole for mining, in a diameter of more than 45 km in a greenhouse area, which will literally be on the "top of the houses" of the populations. This is not to be legislating to respect the quality of life of populations and the quality of environmental life, the latter being also a constitutional precept. This is therefore a step that has been taken. On the other hand, we wanted to ensure that municipalities actually had an active voice and a word to say, through binding opinion. We have often heard in this House defending the decentralization of competences, but this decentralization of competences is only until the municipalities have a word to say and can in some way decide on the fate of their populations. Now, the NAP cannot agree with this vision of the central block, which today also joined the CDS and which led to these measures being on the way, by virtue of the votes against PS, PSD and CDS. We could and should have gone further, because Portugal cannot be the looting of open-air farms that call into question the quality of life of the populations and the quality of environmental life. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u337	Mr Nuno Fazenda of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u338	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are speaking today of a parliamentary opinion on a decree-law on mining, a decree-law which provided for, and foresees, more environmental requirement, more public participation in all stages of the process and, indeed, binding opinions by the municipal chambers. Therefore, it is a decree-law that has clearly made a huge leap in public participation. The BE, the PSD and the ENP presented parliamentary assessments in this area, against which we voted because, contrary to what is practical, in parliamentary assessments, the entities are heard. And here they did not allow the municipalities, NGOs (non-governmental organizations) to be heard, the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature et das Florestas ), the DGEG ( Directorate-General for Energy and Geology), the APA ( Portuguese Environment Agency ). So they didn't want to hear these entities. We made a request...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u339	In 24 hours!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u340	...and they went against these auditions. They therefore defend public participation. But when the time came to promote and provide public participation, what did they do? They voted against, not allowing the public participation of the various entities. And that's a brand that stays. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I do not know whether with regard to the PSD, which proposed that nothing can be done in a protected area, this will not have to do with the fact that, when it was government, it has granted mining rights in 44 protected areas, including in the Argemela greenhouse and in the Arga Serra. That is why, and it is with this inconsistency, which is presented in this prohibitionist logic, preventing us from being able to hear the various entities. So what concludes is that last Wednesday, they defended public participation, perhaps Thursday too, but today, Friday, they voted against what we wanted, which was to hear the representative entities of civil society to have a better law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u341	Mr Nelson Peralta of the BE Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u342	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I must say that we now hear an exercise of cynicism on the side of the PS bench, because the PS did not want to hear anyone, but wanted to protect the process so that it would not be possible to vote today at the last plenary session of this Parliament. That is what the Socialist Party wanted, not to listen to anyone, just as it does not hear the voice of the people who are against these laws. But still, the Left Block, in good time, has scheduled the debate on this subject even in time of conclusion, achieving our main objective and that it is also a great victory for the populations and environmental movements: we will not have new mining in protected areas and in areas classified by the United Nations. That, yes, is a great victory,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u343	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u344	... despite the CDS and the Liberal Initiative they gave the hand to the PS and the government. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We regret, however, that other, equally important measures have not been adopted, because the PSD has joined this trio, particularly on the issue of public participation. It remains determined that there is only public participation in the Monitoring Committee when the Directorate-General so understands. Mrs. Members, what is essential is environmental repair. The recovery of good environmental status must be done at the same time as it is working in the mine. Well, these parties did not want to know and kept the word « preferentially». Thus, there will be mines in a very bad environmental state, without the fact that something has been guaranteed in its process. The proposal for a 20-year moratorium on marine mining, defended by the Minister of the Sea of this Government and proposed by the Block of the Left, was sadly rejected as well as the proposal to increase the perimeter for the villages and protected areas. Despite this exercise of cynicism of the Socialist Party, although all the right has joined the Socialist Party so that the law of mines would not be changed, we were able to change what is essential: the protected areas and the areas classified by the United Nations will not have new mining. It was a great victory of the Left Block, but above all, of the populations and the environmental movement in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-26.u345	We have thus reached the end of the period for oral explanations of vote. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: at this last plenary session of the Assembly of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Yugoslavia, the last one to which I chair, although we still have some meetings of the Standing Committee before us, allow me to tell you a few words. Words that are farewell, of my farewell to parliamentary activities, in full operation of the Assembly of the Republic, at the end of almost four decades, after having entered here in 1986 — from 1986 to 1990 only sporadicly, but especially from 1991 onwards — and here having served the most diverse functions as a Member, Parliamentary leader, Vice-President and the functions of what was, and it is still, the greatest honour of my life, to have served as President of the Assembly of the Republic, to have served as President of all and of all Members. The most honorable of the tasks of my life was, in fact, the exercise of a mandate entrusted to me by the Portuguese and the Portuguese when they elected me a Member and when my peers, Members and Members, twice elected me as President of the Assembly of the Republic. I say this for three fundamental reasons: of course, because of the particular circumstances that led to my election in October 2015 and by strengthening the support of my peers who led to my re-election, still in 2019, raising my responsibilities as President of all and all Members. Then, because of having been President at an exceptional time, when democracy and its institutions have often been under attack, as has been so far not happened, from the most diverse fronts, against Members and Members, seeking to condition their action and mandate, which is — and we never forget — the result of the free decision of our citizens expressed by voting. Exceptional time, too, because we had to face an unexpected pandemic crisis of tragic dimensions, social, economic and human, which radically altered our lives, our life in society and the functioning of the Assembly of the Republic, a sovereign body, which was called to authorize the first state of emergency of democracy. Even in the pandemic, democracy has not been suspended and its House, the Assembly of the Republic, has never closed its doors, saying 'present' and seeing the unreplaceable role that it has long assumed in the democratic political system. And, of course, we have been able to do together in valuing the parliamentary institution, with the general interest and the well-being of the citizens, which we represent here, and the response to their wishes and needs, because that is what I am sure, that we are all moved by, regardless of the party by which we were elected. And bearing in mind that Parliament is not enough to pass laws or to be, from time to time, the stage of important political debates, it is necessary for it to be able to provide information on its activities and that of its holders, thus completing the circle of representation. Looking back, I do not hesitate to say that we have taken significant steps in the path of others who have already been given, and from which others, perhaps more bold, will certainly be given, continuing to contribute to Parliament's evolution. To this end, the 230 Members elected on 30 January will have a body of committed officials, who will certainly continue to do their best, contributing to the Portuguese and Portuguese more proud of their Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the time of my election as President in 2015, in the intervention I gave, I quoted Fernando Pessoa and his Book of Disassosio: «We all live in this world on board a ship from a port that we do not know about to a port that we ignore; we must have for each other a friendly journey». Reaching the end of two years before what it was supposed — of what we all assumed — this was a long journey, with many joys, not free from less happy, sad episodes, even, especially with the death of great friends and statesmen. A trip with some storms. This is the seas in which we navigate, between commitments and divergences, which characterize politics, which has been and will continue to be my life, because a politician does not really abandon politics. And I, just like here, will continue to seek to be at the forefront of the defence of democracy and freedom. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no lesson in giving any of you. Anyway, here, in this house, I've learned more and more than I've taught. in this last speech at a plenary session of the Assembly of the Republic, allow me to thank, in particular, the Vice-Presidents and the Secretaries and Vice-Secretarys of the Bureau for the collaboration I have always had, frankly and loyal, in the conduct of parliamentary work and in the representation of Parliament. I thank all of you, Members of Parliament and Members of the various political quarters, for your contribution to the democratic debate here every day, in the House, which is precisely why the House of Democracy. With a strong, respected Parliament, there will be better conditions to help Portugal — and that is to say the Portuguese and Portuguese who are represented here — to face and overcome the many and increasingly demanding challenges that we, as a nation and as a people, face. All of us, without exception, thank you very much. The House applauded, standing up. The session is closed, which has been long. [[It was 14 hours and 58 minutes.]]
