ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the authority, we will initiate the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] The first item on our agenda is the presentation and discussion of the Report on the Implementation of the State of Emergency Declaration from 9 to 23 December 2020. You have the floor to present the report on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wish, in this first plenary session of 2021, a good year for all, with great and healthy democratic debate, with the removal of the pandemic and with the beginning of the economic recovery that we all want. The debate we are discussing concerns the assessment of the 13. the report submitted by the Government since March, with transparency, subject to democratic scrutiny, this time on the implementation of the state of emergency declaration between 9 December and 23 December 2020. This period was marked by the application of measures which merited the support of the Assembly of the Republic and which were decisive for a positive development of the pandemic in the period prior to Christmas. This period was characterized by the continuity of the communicable factor, the R factor, always below 1 and by the reduction of the number of cases per inhabitant, which actually decreased by 564, which, as we know in November, had reached about 1000 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, to less than 500 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, with a significant reduction in the northern region, the most affected in the period that led us again to the application of the state of emergency. Therefore, during this phase it was essential to maintain the response capacity of the National Health Service ( SNS ). And this was largely due to the set of measures which, with the approval of the decree of the state of emergency, were allowed for the government to take, carrying out the decree of the Assembly of the Republic. This period, in fact, corresponded to the period in which the higher test capacity was achieved. December 23rd was the date on which the largest number of tests was performed in a single day. 58,686 tests were performed on 23 December, in a total of more than 5,5 million tests already performed. It was a period when the security forces were able, with an essentially pedagogical intervention, to continue the implementation of demanding measures in a framework of absolute respect for the democratic rule of law. It was in this framework that in this period we created the conditions for, with restrictions, celebrating Christmas. Also in this period we created the conditions to anticipate the arrival of the vaccine which, from December 26th, allowed a new horizon of hope for a long challenge, which will continue, which does not end here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u3	Mr Hortense Martins of the PS Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u4	On the contrary, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u5	You are right, Mrs Deputy, each parliamentary group has three minutes for an intervention, in ascending order and not in descending order. As a result, you have the floor, Mr Ventura, first of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : First of all, a good year for all. This report hides four fundamental realities, the first of which is that of which it is dealt with by two Ministers of the Government of the Republic, the Minister of Internal Administration, who is here today, and the Minister of Justice. Only this should lead us to think about how we can coordinate an emergency state with a frankly fragile minister in this position. But it is still curious that this report speaks of the response capacity of the National Health Service, on page 12, without ever mentioning the difficulties and uncoordination of the vaccination plan that is under way, the difficulties and the discoordination to keep health centers open at a time when the Portuguese need them. And it culminates with something that, if it were not to laugh, it would be very sad that the government is pleased with the economic situation and to say "see how much it has even increased its demand for commercial establishments at Christmas and on Christmas Eve". Extraordinary, Minister! Increasing the demand for Christmas is something for a government to need a genius of the economy! What we liked to see was the analysis of the failures that were decreed and that occurred during the state of emergency...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u7	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u8	I will finish, Mr. President. What we liked to see was the analysis of the situation of people who could not have the support they deserved during the state of emergency. That was what should be in this report and not the congratulation that they would increase their purchases in bakeries, pastries and on the Continent on Christmas Eve.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u9	The floor is now for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are debating today the Report on the Implementation of the Declaration of the State of Emergency from 9 to 23 December 2020. The Greens did not agree with the state of emergency declaration. We have made it clear that we do not consider this to be the instrument necessary to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Since March, the Portuguese have shown that they are aware and, despite the continuation of unexpected events and unstable numbers, reveal an extraordinary capacity to comply with the health security measures that are necessary for the day-to-day period. We have already said on other reports that if, on the one hand, the Portuguese continue to look at the full sense of responsibility for the recommendations of the public authorities, on the other hand, the Government continues to have all the conditions within the normal legal framework so that nothing is lacking in combating the pandemic. This report, once again, describes reality in very vague numbers, without reflecting the problems that Portuguese people face on a daily basis. It does not identify the problems and that the measures to be taken are the right measures to enable greater security and protection in all areas and spaces. We can read in this report that there has been a slight growth in economic activity, as would be expected, with the approach of Christmas. However, this report does not state that if the collection required for the weekend was two hours later, it may be possible to return to local restoration and trade a more profitable end of the year. Mrs. Ministers, Mr Secretary of State, can we not fail to ask Mr Minister of Internal Administration a question: what reading does the Government make of the 379 fines applied during the period under review? It is that, for the Greens, this number is insignificant in a scenario of 10 million people. on our part, we will continue to say that the Portuguese are fulfilling and will continue to welcome the capacity with which everyone is making an effort so that this disease does not cause more damage than those which have already caused. However, and still making a brief reflection on the fines, we cannot fail to say that it is all too regrettable that two whole pages are dedicated to describing the fines applied, almost being able to identify each of them, only missing that of the citizen who wanted to play on the Placard for hours. On the other hand, the government devotes only two lines to the 22 000 students, at least, who have been left with no face-to-face educational activity, with all the damage we have experienced. This report, like the previous reports, continues to fail to reflect the importance of the state of emergency in combating the pandemic and unfortunately continues to go side by side with the real impact of these measures on the lives of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u12	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, who is Mrs Inês Sousa Real, I would like to inform you that the records are already being made for the purpose of verifying the quorum of the vote to which we are going to proceed at the second point of our agenda and that we already have this quorum. You have the floor, then, for an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: the report we are discussing today highlights a statement on the state of emergency, noting that it has a limited scope in view of this report is applied in a proportionate and appropriate way and has largely preventive effects. If, on the one hand, we agree that prevention is the objective of any state of emergency declared, on the other hand, it does not seem to us that the measures adopted so far have been proportionate or the most appropriate. The country has, in fact, oscillated between the protection of the economy and the protection of health, when what should have been guaranteed was the continuous balance between both protections, i.e. that of health and that of the socioeconomic sector, as happens, for example, in the successful case that is New Zealand. It is, for us, understandable, of course, and here we have discussed it several times, the need to decree the state of emergency. However, this need should take into account that the containment of the virus so requires but in a proportionate and appropriate way to the different risks and that this means that we are suffocating some sectors of our economy, not applying the measures in a proportionate and appropriate way in these areas and even disregarding the differences between the various sectors of our economy and the options that are taken because of the division of the territory itself. We are talking, for example, about what has been the risk-level division, which takes into account the heterogeneity of the epidemiological situation in our country and the ability to test, because, in fact, when we test more, we will have more cases, but this does not mean that the councils that have more cases actually have a higher rate of effective risk. Therefore, with this, the differences between the geographical areas of our country are not being more carefully measured either. If the testing area continues to be variable throughout the territory and if, for example, there has been more testing than in the rest of the country, it is normal that there are the largest number of cases of infection there. And we cannot fail to draw some conclusions here, such as that severe restrictions were applied which were essentially based on testing capacity and which overlooked what might be the effective need to apply health measures elsewhere in the territory and in other sectors. This high number of active cases of the disease and people in surveillance has also reinforced and further highlighted the structural shortage that we have, in terms of resources, in terms of epidemiological surveillance and the burden of health professionals, and here not only in response to COVID-19 but also to non-COVID diseases, which have to continue to have response. Since the first moment of this crisis, which the NAP has alerted to the need for strengthening public health professionals, it has presented, including, in this regard, a proposal in the context of Supplementary Budget. Despite this, and after several months, we still have no answers in this area, still being the competition to finish, which is not consistent with the emergence of this crisis and the response we have to give from a health point of view. But apart from the health responses, we must not fail to remind ourselves here again that we must directly support our economy. We cannot have the economy to "dry" and die, in the face of the restraint measures applied. It is essential that the future be planned and planned, so that, regardless of the state of emergency, the responses can be given not only health but also socio-economic responses that the country needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u14	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A previous issue and five concrete questions. The previous question is that, in view of the alarming numbers that we are currently being aware, it is important, as quickly as possible, to know whether we are before an effect of the change in the measures decreed at Christmas time or whether we are before the effect of the new strain. So we need to know whether there is a reason here for us to worry, both in one case and in the other, and how we should act in relation to it. Then, Mr Minister, it is no novelty — you know it and we have said it before — that we continue to believe that being the spokesperson of the Government, in these debates, is something that weakens the government. We believe that maintaining a minister in his position weakens the Government and the Ministry of Internal Administration itself, as it is obvious. Episodes such as what happened in Évora, between two security forces, deserved that a fully authoritative minister could clarify and give citizens confidence that there is, in the Ministry of Internal Administration, a chain of command that continues to operate normally. The second question relates to the measures of doubtful effectiveness and the obvious damage to them, the most obvious of which is the closure of establishments at 1 p.m. and the confinement of people from that time onwards. It is clear from the economic damage that this causes, either in the restoration or in commercial areas, and that there is, and there has been, a clear damage because this has also happened at a time of year when the government has discovered itself! — people are more likely to consume. It is therefore essential that the Government, once and for all, present data that scientifically justify the effect of these measures on the containment of the pandemic. So far it has not done so, and so are guaranteed economic impact, failures and damage to people and it is to demonstrate the preventive effect of this on the pandemic. In order to continue to cause this injury, the Government had to be able to make the opposite argument about the positive effect that this could have. Then, we wanted to bring again today the question of the STAYAWAY COVID application. We did not say that this application was essential for the fight, it was the government. So let us look at what the Report tells us about this application. This tells us that less than 3 million people downloaded the application, that was only 8866 the codes generated by the application and that there were only 817 calls to the SNS 24 by recommendation of the application, i.e. the application is serving for little more than nothing. Having you said that this was essential, how do you respond to this reality? The last question has to do with testing. The National Strategy for Tracking was approved in November and we know that homes and schools are essential spaces for this preventive testing and screening to have an effect on the containment of the pandemic. From November to now, what has been done — we see nothing — so that the contagion in schools and homes, places where it is obviously much more dangerous, has been contained and that there is some effect of this measure that the government has taken?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u16	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: I would begin this speech by wishing everyone a good year, with health. With regard to the point at which we are dealing, I would like to say that the balance sheet that we are making successively of the application of the various periods relating to the state of emergency demonstrates our conviction that the country needs emergency measures, but would very well dispense with the declaration of emergency states. The need for measures is understood by all and only a small minority, which we normally refer to as 'negationists' — which we strongly reject and with which we do not identify ourselves —, undermines the need to take very serious measures of health control, ensuring health safety, the fight against the virus and its effects. Therefore, the need for measures is understood by almost all. Of course, it is necessary that vaccination plans run well, it is necessary to increase testing capacity and strengthen the National Health Service, which is constantly tested in the face of a situation like the one we are going through. It is necessary to guarantee security conditions on a daily basis in relation to what we must not fail to do, such as the use of public transport, through sufficient supply and in safety conditions. There is a need for safety at work, regardless of the nature of the functions developed, and for people to be able to continue to develop their professional activities with a minimum of confidence, so that the country does not stop. But these measures must be the necessary measures and must be proportionate to ensure what is fundamental, i.e. that there are conditions for all of us to be able to do our lives with the limited minimum and safety conditions guaranteed to the maximum, so that this security is guaranteed, that the economy is not destroyed and that people do not see their economic, professional and jobs involved. It's essential to guarantee this! Everyone acknowledges that the measures put into practice in March and April were not repeatable because of their dramatic consequences on our economic fabric, jobs, and the injury they caused in the living conditions of many people. It is therefore necessary that the measures are in fact balanced in order to ensure the survival of economic activities, the guarantee of jobs and the rights of those who work. If there are measures taken that are understandable, there are others that are not. There are measures that continue to be incomprehensible to the majority of the population, to us, and whose effectiveness is not at least demonstrated. We are referring, in particular, to the hours of restoration, not understanding the reason why it is that time limitation, as the reason why it is not understood to be restricted to the hours of commercial activities which concentrate as many people as possible in a very small number of hours. Therefore, the concentration of people is increased when it would be necessary to diversify the schedules of influx to these activities. We repeat: we believe that the necessity of measures would, in fact, exempt the statement of the state of emergency and would like to see us - that the balance sheet that has been taken from its application proves this our conviction. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u18	Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: During the debate on the renewal of the state of emergency whose report we are now discussing, the Left Block made it clear what should be the priorities during this state of emergency. The first priority was to support those and those who lost nothing, because this health crisis is also an economic and social crisis, the second was the protection of employment and the third was the strengthening of the National Health Service. In the course of the state of emergency we are examining, it is important to know whether the government has achieved any of these priorities. No, it has not achieved those priorities! Did you at least try to achieve these priorities? No, you didn't even try to do it! I'll give you a few examples. At the end of December, it was known that thousands of workers with green receipts, without any income they had lost during the crisis, had waited for support that was due them for months, but that the government had not granted them. Therefore, the government has not taken care of supporting those who have lost everything with the crisis. As for the second example, we also learned from the end of December that Galp announced the dismissal of hundreds of workers after having generously distributed millionaire dividends by its shareholders, worth EUR 580 million. Now, it was necessary to prohibit these dismissals, of course. If this is a company capable of distributing dividends of EUR 580 million, it is certainly not a company in difficulty because of the crisis, but those workers will experience a much greater difficulty not only because of the dismissal but also because of the crisis we are experiencing. Did the government intercede in any way? No, he did not intervene in any way to safeguard these jobs. About the National Health Service and knowing that the year 2021 will continue to be a year of extreme demand, what we have seen and heard by the government is, on the one hand, a lot of resistance to the hiring of more professionals, for example to ensure the vaccination of the entire population, and, on the other hand, an extreme subservience to the private health sector. The result is that we currently have very pressureed SNS hospitals with less budget, because much of this is being diverted to private sector contracts, when there could be a demand for this private sector. There are, in fact, caricated episodes, such as the Amadora-Sintra hospital, in which the hospital is paying so that its own surgeons can perform operations at the premises of a private group. If that is necessary, then what is needed is to request these same facilities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In conclusion, we say that not enough words of gratitude and announcements of non-regation on measures to combat the various crises. What is really necessary is not to race in professional careers, awards to health professionals and support to the population that needs so much. For this, the government has not made use of the state of emergency. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u20	Mrs Marcia Passos, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We would like to see another attitude in this report. This report, despite its exhaustiveness, is merely descriptive: it has no data on the real impact of measures taken in the evolution of hospitalizations, infections and mortality rates; it presents numbers, but does not relate facts or conclusions; moreover, it concerns us because it points to the repetition of a past error, a serious error, which is the devaluation of what is going on in Europe and the world. I recall with sadness the first statements made by the Director-General of Health on 15 January 2020, saying that the outbreak in China was contained and that a mass spread was not a hypothesis to be considered. After a little more than 30 days, we were closing schools and closing the country, because the government devalued the signs that came from outside and did not respond. The error was repeated at various levels, either in the devaluation of the second wave, or in the prevention that has not been done and in the measures that have not been adopted to enable the SNS to respond effectively not only to the patients of COVID, but also to the other patients who have been forgotten by the government. Now, with a new strain of the virus, we have the United Kingdom at maximum alert level. Cá, we have doctors alerting for the exhaustion of the capacity of the National Health Service and the government continues to make mistakes. There are mistakes when the government leaves behind the elderly, the most vulnerable, in the vaccination plan. There are errors in the Report, on page 11, with statements that are not understood, as follows: "the new variant does not appear to have any impact on mortality by COVID-19". Does it have an impact or does it have an impact? You don't get it! There are errors when the health authority states, as it has said days ago, that the emergence of a new variant is a expected occurrence, not being a cause of concern for itself. How is it that in the country, in the state in which you are, someone still has the courage to say that this is not cause for concern? Oh, my God! Everything, sirs. Ministers, it's a matter of concern! As long as we have Portuguese to die, as long as we have the failed economy, as long as we have the public administration and the justice without meeting the needs of the citizens, as long as we have the hospitals exhausted, everything, Mrs. Ministers, but everything, is a matter of concern. We cannot deal with this attitude of the recurring devaluation government, with this careless attitude of lack of planning. That is why, and on behalf of the Portuguese, the PSD requires another attitude, because these will never follow. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u22	Mr Hortense Martins of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I also want to wish everyone a good year. Then I wanted to say that this report proves that these measures were necessary and are being taken. It is true that we must continue to take action, but with this report we have seen a reduction in the intensity of contagions in the North and the Centre. Support measures have also been taken for economic activity and these support measures must continue to be taken, as the Government has already announced. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have hope and confidence in the National Health Service, health professionals, the health system, Portugal, its government and institutions. We reject the noise of those who seem to want everything to go wrong. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we accept the contributions and proposals of those who are seriously committed to working, contributing to overcoming the problems and finding the best solutions. In fact, the numbers revealed in Portugal and around the world show that we all have to be responsible for this pandemic. We have heard several positions expressed and it is true that it is not possible to recognise that Portugal has made a huge and effective effort to combat this pandemic. Like some mistakes? Oh, my God! Of course. All over the world, countries don't do everything right. But our SNS has been resilient, our health professionals have been up to date and our institutions too. I would like to mention, in particular, at this time, the Vaccination Plan against COVID-19, whose implementation is well under way. In fact, in view of the number of vaccines available, Portugal did well to start with health professionals who are at risk. This week, started a fundamental stage, with the protection of our elderly, with vaccination in the homes and in the continuing care units. Concern and care for our elderly are present in the Vaccination Plan, crossing with the most at-risk diseases. I also highlight the announced information portal to clarify doubts about vaccination against COVID-19, the simulator, which is already running, and the fact that health professionals from private and social institutions will also receive this vaccine. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we also need to respond with regard to users outside the National Health Service and this statement needs to be agile. We trust the experience we have in public health and our professionals. Portugal is currently the seventh most vaccinated country in front of the countries of the South and even some Nordic countries. We must continue to recover our economy, save lives, strengthen the National Health Service and protect Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u24	The floor now lies with the Minister of Health, for an intervention by the Government. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a context of an international public health emergency, what the Government has done was to use the state of emergency as a way to frame restrictions on rights, freedoms and guarantees. That's what we're discussing, that's what we're presenting. For those who point out that the use we made of the state of emergency was excessive or unnecessary, we would like to point out that today we have an epidemiological situation that shows the need for the use of exceptional mechanisms that fit the restrictions we need to make in order to protect the health of all. When we were asked what we did with this state of emergency, I would like to recall that it was possible, thanks to this state of emergency, from then on, to use an extended set of professionals for the recovery of epidemiological surveys, essential to early identification of cases and the breakdown of transmission chains. But we are not discussing other aspects today, for which we will very much like to come back here to clarify. We're not discussing some aspects that you guys are discussing. Members have invoked and this must be borne in mind. This report does not mention the STAYAWAY COVID app, nor the new variant. They're talking about another report, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! They're talking about a report that we, under transparency, also sent to the parties for five years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u26	Are you kidding us? Oh, my God! Mr. Minister! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u27	... but not this report on the implementation of the State Emergency Declaration, where are not the information they have referred to on the report we are now discussing. With regard to the scientific effects of the measures, I am not ordering the discussion, so that the Portuguese who are listening to us understand with transparency what we are discussing: we are discussing the use of an exceptional mechanism, which we use with proportionality, with restraint and with great sense of responsibility, to restrict the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the Portuguese and to safeguard public health in a particularly aggressive context. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to tell you the following: in the period in question, as has already been mentioned, we have carried out the largest number of tests ever carried out in the National Health Service. 59 000 tests were performed on December 23. In December, the laboratory network conducted more than one million tests. So we did not lower this guard, as we did not lower the guard in hiring human resources. In November, there were more than 425 medical specialists in the National Health Service than in November of the previous year. The reason for being the last of our action at this time was to prepare the vaccination plan, the one that is working so well and that allowed continental Portugal to have already received 140,400 doses of vaccines, had already distributed 66,700 doses and had already administered by 17 hours and 30 minutes yesterday, 42,035 doses of vaccines. That's why we're here and we're going to continue to be, for that very reason. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u28	We have thus reached the end of this first item on our agenda, which dealt with the presentation and discussion of the Report on the Implementation of the Declaration of the State of Emergency from 9 to 23 December 2020. We will move on to the second point of our agenda, which deals with the debate on the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency. You have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, for an intervention. Before that, I would like to congratulate Mr. Prime Minister and wish you a good year. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u29	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have reconvened the plenary session of the Assembly of the Republic to authorize the declaration of the state of emergency requested by the President of the Republic, at a fundamental moment in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19. Once again, we are called upon to answer the question that Mr President of the Republic's request calls for: why is it necessary to renew the state of emergency? from the perspective of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the answer continues to be based on the same assumptions as the previous debates. On the one hand, the framework of exceptional measures which must be adopted in respect of freedom of movement, extraordinary mobilization of material and human resources and the adoption of testing and screening measures is thus legitimized with sound legal credentials, with respect to the requirements of the Constitution in this field, not normalizing what should not be normalised but which is imperatively necessary for crisis management. On the other hand, the adoption of these measures and instruments through the declaration of the state of emergency is what enables us to respond to the public calamity caused by the pandemic, saving lives, safeguarding the response capacity of the SNS, mobilizing the indispensable means for the containment of the virus and ensuring spaces for support to families and businesses that suffer, immediately, the very serious impact of the COVID-19. The context in which we deliberate this new state of emergency renewal is complex and asymmetric. at the same time we find reasons for realistic hope and data that, with the same realism, impose caution and concern. Even with numerous authorised vaccines and to be administered worldwide—we are once again highlighting the response capacity of the Portuguese health authorities, who have managed to ensure one of the highest coverage, as a percentage of the population to be vaccinated, in these early days of the vaccination campaign—we know that the process will take time to achieve all the desired effects and that group immunity is seen but is not around the corner. On the other hand, a little across Europe, let us access information about new confinements, with new hardness, closures of services and activities, in the face of an increase in relevant cases in many of them, which shows us the need for caution and prevention. Today, compared with the numbers of new cases between us in Portugal, we realize that unfortunately the time is not yet to smooth measures. Maybe it might even be the other way around. In addition, the scientific research around the virus and disease, continuing its decisive work to deepen its knowledge, also reminds us of how much we do not yet know, when we face new mutations and its dissemination. It is not a matter of alarming without grounds or trying to create fear in citizens. The determining word is another, that which I have referred to for moments: realism. Without giving in to this point, it is necessary to continue to decide on the basis of available scientific knowledge and on a permanent update, not cloning before rumors, conspiracy theories, unverified and disseminated information by social networks with an amount and speed inversely proportional to its credibility. Precisely because scientific evidence is necessary to inform and inform pandemic management decisions, Mr President of the Republic requests an authorisation of less than permitted by the constitutional text, so that the data of the experts accompanying the evolution of the pandemic can be taken into account in any amendments that may be necessary for the measures. Until then, it is justified, by caution, to maintain at least the already known framework of measures in recent weeks, since the available numbers on infections do not point to a significant decrease that supports another way of reducing the severity of the measures. Thus, this extension for one week, from 8 to 15 January, allows us to base the data we have before updating it with new elements, keeping the alert in front of the numbers that have actually gone up. As to the content of the declaration, it would point out only three aspects worthy of attention: the advantage of clarifying the scope of reference to the crime of disobedience, which is a result of the law itself of the state of site or emergency, which has maintained its ability to regulate the matter; the importance of the provision of social support in this budgetary context; and, moreover, the maintenance of the distinction of differentiated degrees of measures, depending on the epidemiological situation, restricting only when and where necessary, only on the scale of that need. We will therefore return to this debate next week with more information. I stress again the importance of the confidence that we should place in health professionals and researchers who have munified us with this information. Let us not miss the few advantages that humanity knows, at this time of its history: the remarkable amount of research of quality and network, subject to contradiction, method and review by its peers, which allows us to test better, take better care, vaccinate and glimpse hope in the future. There is therefore a need to leave a word to those who fight in front of the health response, to those who are sick, to those who trace contacts to break transmission chains, to those who administer vaccines and to those who have made them possible. The redoubled appreciation of this country must be emphasized. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the wear and fatigue that the pandemic brings to everyone — citizens, families, businesses, public services and community as a whole — are a tremendous challenge, testing our resilience and ability to withstand a generational and historical challenge. We know how to withdraw forces together to continue to face a year of 2021 which points out exit paths, but without forgetting that, although the road may seem more hasty, it is necessary to follow the long path that we have ahead and avoid the hard obstacles that we still find in it. At the end of this journey, we will be able to build a new normality, in which we will have to value what we learn and that we realize what makes the difference: sense of solidarity, sense of community and sustainability of our life choices in society.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u30	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u31	In conclusion, reiterating what I said in similar debate a few weeks ago: we do not lose sight that, apart from the normal functioning of the institutions, the ability to overcome the moment we go through, as a community, also depends on the ability to strengthen these ties of solidarity, refusing to create cleavages that go beyond the democratic dissent,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u32	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u33	... refusing to promote and nurture discord and refusing to seek to take advantage of the difficulties that we all must face together. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u34	Mr Hugo Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u35	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : During almost all of our history infectious diseases have been the greatest force of death. Humanity has faced dozens of epidemics, some of which have victimized millions and millions of people around the world. Science has accompanied us in a struggle of centuries, in an effortful, dedicated and so often discreet work — sometimes ignored — of those who look at the world with the curiosity to understand why and how of nature and who have not been missing here when looking for the solutions we needed. This is, therefore, a different state of emergency, and could not pass without remembering these men and women, who used to call scientists, who made 2021 the year of vaccination and therefore deserve our deep thanks. These, like all the health professionals who have carried us on our shoulders so far and we will never be able to thank enough for the courage and for their delivery to the Portuguese, who, too, often at personal cost, have always responded to the efforts that this Parliament has asked them and to whom we owe all the good results of this fight we are still working on. We are all doing this debate more often than we would like, but it is with responsibility that we have to be here. The PSD therefore maintains the responsible position that it has always had since the first day, because it also maintains the assumptions of the analysis that we have done there. The Assembly of the Republic shall, with its permission, monitor the act of the President of the Republic to grant to the Government of Portugal powers of exception for the moment of exception which Portugal still lives. I know, however, that we do not all share the same sense of responsibility, that there are those who, out there, demand severe measures to combat the pandemic and then come to the plenary to try to make life difficult for the government that has to implement them. They do not vote in favour, but do not vote against either; they refrain from taking part in this solution or from another that they might present as an alternative, thinking that they will allay their responsibility or that, by any strange mathematics of popularity, they may have electoral gains there. For PSD, these are not half-measured moments. We enable the state of emergency with the favourable vote of those who take it seriously, of those who do not banalize it and of those who consider it necessary. We face up to a choice of responsibility to support the Government of Portugal in a fight we all have to win, for the country and for the Portuguese. But, Mr President, the state of emergency is, above all, also a test of confidence in institutions, politics and democracy. And if it is unfortunate that we started 2021 with the country in a state of emergency, it is with great concern that we started 2021 with the government in a state of disaster. Day after day, minister after minister, case after case, the government has broken the credibility of its members and has shown successively weaknesses in the ability to lead the Public Administration. The government has broken the confidence that the Portuguese have deposited in it. Choose to hold ministers instead of holding ministries, choose to throw smoke curtains over problems instead of improving public services, choose to treat their own rather than encourage merit and support State workers. The government chooses to be like that. And it is in this state on its own account, because even for a moment the opposition chose to create political instability to the government to try to harvest possible electoral dividends, nor for a moment did the opposition choose to overwhelm the government just because the moment was difficult. No, the government has the demerit to have weakened itself and, worse still, it lacks humility to take its failures and implement the proper consequences. Minou, as he could not have done, the confidence of people in the institutions and failed, as he could not have done, the start of a presidency of the European Union which is so important for Portugal and for our economic recovery. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u36	The moment we were living required much more of the government, as it also requires much more of us all. The PSD will not be on the side of politics, will be on the side of the Portuguese, against a pandemic that does not choose people, does not choose countries and much less choose party ideologies. For the PSD today, there is a need to assure people that they rarely feel and that we give them here: here, regardless of the place each of us occupies in this room, when necessary, we know that we are on the side of Portugal, without blowing to the air and, above all, without turning our backs on our responsibilities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u37	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u38	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the day when Portugal first exceeds the 10 000 daily cases of COVID-19, we discussed a request for renewal of the state of emergency which is particularly transient. It is proposed that it prevail for one week until another of the already known meetings of Infarmed, where the current evolution of the pandemic in Portugal will be analysed. It is not, however, necessary to wait for this meeting to realize at least three things from now on. The first thing you can see is that, as it was likely and expected from the beginning of December, we have in January a very significant increase in new cases of COVID-19, and that, by making this situation worse, the starting point is now very different and much more complicated. The starting point we had in December, for this third wave, was a starting point where the admissions were already very under pressure and where the National Health Service was already much more under pressure than it was, for example, at the time of the first wave. The second thing we can see from now on is that the country cannot go after the damage, i.e. the increase in response capacity and the increase in the internment capacity of the National Health Service should have already been prepared, knowing, as we already knew, that January would be a very difficult month. As it has not been prepared, this preparation must exist immediately. The third thing we can know from now on, even before the so-called Infarmed meeting, is that social and economic support measures cannot wait. It is not enough to say that efforts are not being made, social support must reach those who have lost everything. Wild layoffs, profit-making companies and those benefiting from public support must be prevented. It is necessary to support the sectors of activity of small traders, who have been living for 10 months—for more than 10 months! — accumulating losses. Knowing all this from now on, what is required is that the government no longer endorses the measures it has put forward and that they are essential. It is hoped that the government will not hide behind a meeting of Infarmed, which will be further ahead, to avoid doing what is necessary now. It is noted that it is the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security himself who says that there is no means to respond to the homes. But the Minister is part of the government. If there is no means, then put the necessary means in your homes, contract, require these means! It is noted that it is the Minister of Health himself who warns that complicated times will come in hospitals. They're not coming, they're already there! In some hospitals, more or less intermittently, these complicated times are the times that have been living since March last year. But who has failed, after all, the preparation of the second wave? Who presented a budget that was manifestly short and essentially failed the National Health Service? Wasn't it the government? Oh, my God! Isn't it the Minister who is part of this same government? Oh, my God! What is required is that the preparation of the third vacancy, as it has failed, should not continue to overburden the same professionals who are awarded prizes, careers and contracts. Of course it will be necessary—of course it is necessary already! — hire more professionals to ensure that vaccination reaches the entire population in the shortest possible time. Of course, with the increase in cases of COVID-19, it will be necessary to expand the internment capacity of the National Health Service. Of course, the situations that are not COVID-19 cannot be answered, nor can they continue to be postponed until we have the whole population vaccinated, because this will take many months. So you hire where you will hire and you require where you need to request. Of course it will be necessary to strengthen social support, because it is unacceptable that there are workers with green receipts for months, for many months, without receiving a penny and without any support from the State. Of course, it is necessary to stop labour abuse, which is always fattened in times of crisis: to prohibit layoffs in profit companies, in companies that distribute dividends millionaires to shareholders, in companies that have benefited from public money. And, of course, it is obvious that much more needs to be done than is being done by the National Health Service. Finally, the Government and Mr President of the Republic call on Parliament to renew the state of emergency, which is a huge responsibility, but it has taken a long time to ensure its implementation in accordance with what is necessary for the country. The Bloc will abstain from the following vote, but demands what needs to be demanded: that the Government not be half in the responses, in the defense of the National Health Service and in the necessary support for people and jobs, that the Government not be half in the answer, as it has been in recent months, so far. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u39	Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has said, and reaffirmed, that what the country needs is not of the state of emergency, but of emergency measures, which address the health situation and the difficult situation caused by the social and economic impacts of this epidemic. The measures that are currently urgent are not very different from those that have been needed over these months and the urgency of which continues to be emphasized, as a result of the reality of the country. We need urgent measures to strengthen the National Health Service, we need urgent measures to address the situation that is created in the homes and the problems that occur with the elderly and we need urgent measures to support workers, the unemployed, micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, all those who continue to be severely affected by the economic and social impacts of this epidemic. A few weeks ago, when we discussed the last renewal of the state of emergency, we said here that strengthening the National Health Service was the first and main issue that was important to answer. And this continues to be the first and main issue to which, today, it is still necessary to answer, not only by strengthening the National Health Service to respond to the health problem of COVID-19 but also by strengthening the National Health Service to ensure the provision of health care that is still necessary, beyond the fight against COVID-19, in diseases that continue to stifling Portuguese daily and that they also need to have framework and response in the National Health Service. And, of course, also considering vaccination measures, so that this process can, with full effectiveness and speed, meet the objectives it has to meet, so that the year of 2021 can effectively be a different year. All of this requires a particular priority to strengthen the means of public health and also the capacity of hospitalization and hospital response in this area. But there is another aspect that is absolutely essential and the urgency of which is now, increasingly, with the situation in relation to homes, which has to do with the functioning of primary health care, with the response that primary health care needs to give to patients, particularly those in more vulnerable situations, such as the elderly, whether or not they are at home. This is an absolutely essential aspect to ensure the response that the National Health Service has to ensure to the set of difficulties and problems that are placed. And that, Prime Minister and Mr. Government members, implies strengthening the number of professionals, beginning with the conversion of term contracts into final contracts, binding all those health professionals who have been contracted over the past few months. However, this means not limiting the conversion of future contracts to those whose two renewals ended in 2020. This must be extended to all professionals who have been hired in time and whose need continues to be felt in the functioning of the National Health Service. Just as it is necessary to implement the measures decided in the State Budget, with regard to strengthening investment in equipment and infrastructure in the National Health Service. The second question we have raised here has to do with the homes and the situation that is currently being created in the homes. The repetition of COVID-19 outbreaks in the homes with elderly and infected workers has resulted in the lack of conditions in the follow-up of the elderly, their sending to hospitals, with the burden of health services. There is no one who wants to be hired in time to go to work for a home while there is a focus of infection, knowing that, at the end of this contract, and that fire is extinguished, what it faces, then, is dismissal. And there are no alternatives to homes to accommodate the elderly who are in these situations. What all this requires is a solution to the real emergency situation in which there are many homes of elderly people in our country, who, because of their workers' infection, have no longer had the opportunity to provide support and support to the elderly. There are reports of hospitals where elderly people arrive who do not have COVID problems, but who have dehydration problems, have problems due to lack of medication, because no one gives the medication in time and hours and properly. And these are not problems that need to be solved in the National Health Service, they are problems that need to be solved before that, with the allocation of the workers needed so that the homes can provide such support. The solution that the Government has created, of the rapid social security brigades, is a broken solution because the rapid brigades « do not arrive at orders». What is needed is to find a solution, as the CFP has proposed, of a worker recruitment grant for social security, to strengthen social equipment, be homes, day care centres or institutions to support people with disabilities, so that those workers, with adequate training and a stable, future and lasting perspective on the work and the functions they are going to perform, can also contribute at this very difficult time, knowing that, beyond this difficult period, what they have ahead is not the door to the street, nor the end of the contract, nor their dismissal. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention questions relating to social support. Over time, measures have been taken and, particularly in the State Budget for 2021, important social support tools have been included to assist all those who need: workers in precarious situations, unemployed workers, MPMEs (micro, small and medium-sized enterprises), creators, artists and other cultural agents. All these mechanisms that are created must be put on the ground quickly, providing for the social support to which they need, so that, by giving them the extension and expression necessary and not limiting their application, they can effectively meet the objective they have, that of ensuring social support to whom they are currently being whipped by the consequences of this epidemic. We have said and insisted — and with this I conclude, Mr President — that the statement of the state of emergency, which, of course, today will again be viable by PS, PSD, BE, CDS and PAN, does not answer any of these questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u41	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u42	But the emergency measures that the country needs are still necessary. And the PCP will continue to hit them. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u43	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u44	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We are once again discussing here the authorization for the renewal of an exception state—and it is good to say that we always do not internalize a normality that does not exist in the application of this type of regime and in the application of the measures which it is carrying out. We continue to talk about limitations of freedom and we continue to speak of an instrument which is very questionable that should be used for so long, being indisputable that it could, to a large extent, be replaced by ordinary legislation that would enable the State to fulfil the responsibilities it has to carry out in a situation such as these, without having to use this instrument of exception. This Government has insisted on measures of doubtful effectiveness, but of obvious damage. The most obvious of them is the closure of establishments at 1 p.m. on weekends. To date, no one has been able to demonstrate the effectiveness of this measure in combating the spread of the pandemic. Until today, no one has been able to explain why there are meetings of people on Saturday mornings and Sundays, which are no other time of day, nor any other day of the week, prevents the disease from being spread more easily. No one can explain that. But the evidence is that, probably, if it was distributed throughout the day everything that happens on Saturday and Sunday mornings, everyone could obviously make a more conscious planning of their activities and avoid what even last week was found, from endless rows to the supermarket door, because people needed to make their supplies, all had to do them at the same time and they ended up being on top of others to enter these commercial spaces. But what leaves no doubt is the damage that these measures cause to those who have their business and are forced to close at this time, to so many restoration establishments, to so many commercial establishments, which are razed and broken by a measure to which the Government insists, without any evidence of its effectiveness. It is not understandable that one insists on what does not have sufficient scientific justification. It is not understandable that this is done, when so many people, so many jobs, so many businesses, so many savings are being called into question because of this insensitivity. But it is not just here that the government fails. The government also fails to test. We know that testing is essential for the fight against pandemic. In November, the Government approved a national strategy for testing in essential areas such as homes and schools. So far, there is absolutely no evidence that this test, resulting from the national strategy, has begun—it is all in the same, or worse. From the return to classes and the return of many elderly people to homes, everything is worse than it was before the approval of this national strategy. The Minister of Social Security says that there is no means to respond to the situation in the home. But it was the same Minister of Social Security who recently guaranteed here in Parliament that rapid brigades would solve this problem. We have warned and now we see that the brigades are not fast, nor are they effective. And the elderly, in their homes, continue to have the same problems, as they also have those who, in these homes, provide service and obviously are also exposed to this difficulty in dealing with the situation. As far as schools are concerned, each school does what is right for you. There's no single protocol. There are schools that send children home and there are schools that keep children in attendance. There are schools that test temperature and there are schools that don't test temperature. There are schools that disinfect classrooms between every school time and schools that disinfect classrooms once a day. There are schools where this is done by teachers and there are schools where this is done by assistants. There is no protocol and obviously there is chaos. There are teachers who don't have the slightest idea what they should do when they have half the class in the room and another half attending classes per computer. You know one thing: from a pedagogical point of view, this can't go well. No one can teach in condition when he has half the class in a regime and another half in another regime. But there's still no order there. This state of emergency is a state that limits freedoms. And obviously, by limiting freedoms, when it is to the discretion of the incompetence of the government, it suffers even more. If the state is and the country is in emergency, the government is clearly in denial. And only the state of government denial can justify that, in a state of emergency, with absolute constitutional exception, a Minister of Internal Administration is kept in office without any conditions to remain in office and a Minister of Justice equally without conditions to remain in office. If this was unacceptable in any situation, how is it that a democratic country is in a state of emergency with this Minister of Internal Administration and this Minister of Justice in the state in which they are? Worse, how is it that a democratic country is in a state of emergency with a Prime Minister who reiterates confidence in ministers who have long lost the country's confidence? This is an abuse of government authority, it is a disrespect for the functioning of democratic institutions and it is evidence of an institutional swamp that has settled in the country. Everything is permitted, everything is possible, as long as it is for the work and for the grace of the socialists. And we can't tolerate that. This is an exception that has already crossed all borders from what is admissible. This is an incompetence that is not entirely acceptable. Therefore, the CDS no longer passes blank checks for clear and questionable measures of effectiveness. The CDS does not pass blank checks to a government with ministers without any conditions to remain in office. CDS does not pass blank checks to a Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u45	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u46	... that reiterates the trust of those who do not deserve it and those who do not have it by the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u47	I have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u48	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not possible to measure to date, with a comfortable degree of certainty, the health consequences of the holiday period which has now ended and during which there has been a relief of measures to combat the pandemic. However, it is foreseeable that there may be a worsening of the situation, so it is not, in our view, advised at this time to mitigate the existing restrictions on movement and physical proximity, while we are waiting for more specific data on the epidemiological situation. For the NAP it is therefore unjustified and irresponsible to vote against the proposed renewal of the state of emergency declaration, a mechanism which has proved legally essential in the fight against COVID-19. We believe, however, that, with the data and information available at the moment, no conditions are created to change our previous position and vote in favour of renewing this declaration. We also believe that it would be a great deal of regret in our possible change of position towards the state of emergency that the Government and the President of the Republic will open up more to realize that there is more life beyond the central block and thus receive a set of concerns and safeguards that we consider necessary to ensure the proper management of this health, economic and social crisis. That is why, in today's vote, the NAP will maintain its abstention from the renewal of the state of emergency. We have argued that the government must show that its priority is people, its protection and the creation of conditions so that there is hope for a strong and undisputed future. In order to ensure this, the Government cannot continue with cross arms, when unemployment strikes by more than 50 % in 34 municipalities or when requests for support increase to numbers rarely seen, nor can it believe that vocational training solves anything. The Government has to create support for the economy that runs through business closures every day and, of course, has to provide support that avoids loss of income and guarantees support for all unprotected people, including young people who, having been fired during the experimental period or during their internship, have been left out of all existing support. But we cannot help but look at what is happening in the homes of the elderly, who have so much been shaken by this health crisis. This epidemiological outbreak has exposed the fragility in which our institutionalized elderly people already lived, as well as the state of total abandonment and deresponsibility by the state in recent years. We cannot systematically relegate to second and third planes the most fragile layers of society. We save banks and large companies, with dubious charismatic management and serious damage to the record, but we vote on absolutely unacceptable conditions for thousands of people. In view of this scenario, we cannot fail to note the feeling of special injustice and ingratitude when we are talking about who has worked for a lifetime and who can now be abandoned. Therefore, own clinical bodies should be guaranteed, particularly in homes and residential structures for the elderly, of a private nature and solidarity. As long as there are first and second citizens, as long as there are first and second companies, as long as we continue to put great economic interests in front of people, we will inevitably move towards an unfair and morally bankrupt society. Reducing restrictions on freedoms and rights is at the hands of each one of us, by reinventing collectives, work, social action, using the means available through new technologies or by strengthening health measures in field work. This is the time to adapt, grow and not give up everything we have gained in terms of social support and freedom. Although the state of emergency and the long duration of the health crisis are making each of us emerge a state of wear, the truth is that the pandemic has not yet been behind, it is not yet time to lower the guard. The danger of routine, of ease, of discouragement are at the door, as well as the most dangerous wave of all. This is the crucial moment of fighting the pandemic. It is time for the State to show why it exists and why we choose to live in a social rule of law. It is time for all of us to maintain resilience and adaptability, but also the spirit of solidarity and cooperation. Evoking Churchill,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u49	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u50	... vaccination will not be the end, it is not even the beginning of the end, but it is the end of the beginning. And we've only achieved this success with everyone's effort.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u51	It's the Greens' turn. For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, we are called upon to discuss the renewal of the state of emergency. It will be the eighth state of emergency in this epidemic. This debate takes place in the first week of the year 2021, at a time when no one will deny the severity of the epidemic that has struck us and in which we are deeply aware of the variation in the numbers that concern us and the severity of its impacts. The vaccine brought confidence and hope to the Portuguese people, without slowing down the requirement to maintain the hygiene measures, respiratory label and others, which will be needed for much longer in our routines and those that are close to us. The Greens, who have already said so in this Parliament, believe that problems cannot be added to the central problem, which is the pandemic. We mention again: it is not the state of emergency that will stop the spread of the virus—it is not with the imposition of short hours to the services, creating endless rows in closed spaces, forcing assemblies, generating anxiety in people to know whether, within the limits imposed, they will be able to meet their needs, such as making the necessary purchases. The state of emergency is not a solution to guarantee the right to housing and to survive, in these months of strict winter, at the low temperatures that they feel. It is not the state of emergency that will strengthen services, identify where propagation has more incidence, seek to respond to needs and return minimum normality to the days of Portuguese. We said here, in the previous debate on the state of emergency, that, and I quote, "If the priority is health, then the National Health Service is strengthened" and that, with the state of emergency, doctors, nurses, diagnostic technicians and technical and operational assistants were not hired, with primary health care conditions, were not reopened. We said, and I quote, 'If the priority is to defend our economy, we save jobs by prohibiting redundancies; we increase the national minimum wage, with the impact that this will have on the dynamisation of domestic demand, which is fundamental to the revival of the economy; we strongly support small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs on their own behalf. Do not keep on seeking. ” The state of emergency did nothing of this, and the increase in minimum wage fell short of what the emergency situation in people's lives requires. We said the same to the culture sector and the state of emergency brought no hope to any of its agents. We also said that if the priority is to combat the epidemic, then the working conditions are monitored and the conditions in which people travel in public transport are monitored. Tell us, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : why did the state of emergency serve, if none of this has happened? We remember and remember the need to act in our homes to ensure the defense of their users and workers, so indispensable to the provision of care. The news from the many homes in this country says that, for them too, the state of emergency did not bring the necessary answers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The pandemic is too serious, it has already caused too much economic, social and health damage so that the President of the Republic and the Government continue to hide behind the state of emergency. to the eighth state of emergency, if there's anything that's proven, it doesn't solve anything. However, it adds limitations to freedoms, rights and guarantees, very dangerous limitations, particularly at a time when we need a living democratic debate and the mobilization of all citizens for future decisions. The Greens will therefore vote against it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u53	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, Mr. Members : We are discussing today the renewal of the state of emergency. We know well how we do not need this state of emergency, because, although we need emergency measures, there is something we do not need: widely confused measures in which it is not understood why some establishments have to close at 1 p.m., others at 4 p.m. and others in neighboring municipalities closed and 300 m, with everything open. We cannot understand how it is possible that there is a level of evaluation of councils that no one understands and that ministers themselves cannot decipher. We cannot understand how we have support that, flooded in bureaucracy, continues to fail the main businesses, restaurants, commerce and services in Portugal. Today we can safely conclude this: the government has failed the Portuguese in preparing what would be the second wave of the COVID-19 in Portugal. As we will soon be able to say, it has also failed to prepare for such a third wave that everyone announces, but the government does not want to see. The government was unable to prepare a shock plan, when it was known which sectors would be most affected by this pandemic, and lets failings after failures destroy restaurants, commerce, companies and services, in a wave of unemployment that Portugal has not seen for a long time. The government has not achieved or prepared and therefore there are closed health centres in areas with elderly population, there are closed hospitals and no means, when what should have been done was, without ideological complexes of the extreme left, able to adapt private health and public health to the service of those concerned: the Portuguese. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm addressing you, especially. Mr. President of the Republic opened the door to Eduardo Cabrito, who is here with us today, as he opened the door to the exit of his Minister of Health, when he said that he lied to the Portuguese about vaccination, and, as we all know, this Minister of Justice does not have the conditions to continue in office, in full pandemic. Mr. Prime Minister, I don't know whether it's religious or not, but I'm going to tell you this: pray a lot, Prime Minister. Pray a lot so that January 24 doesn't bring you a very big deal. Because if you bring in, Prime Minister, there's something I want to tell you here and assume today in front of the Portuguese...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u55	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u56	I will finish, Mr. President. It is that the Minister of Internal Administration, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health will be leaving the Government of Portugal, because if he does not, you will be leaving the Government of Portugal! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u57	What a spell!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u58	It looks like the disco doorman sending the client to the street: "Please leave! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u59	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u60	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government : It seems that at the fourth renewal of this second wave of emergency states it is necessary again to explain the basis for the consistent decision of the Liberal Initiative to vote against the presidential decrees that declare them. This is because it seems that, for some — or by superficiality, which is very convenient, or by electoral interests now of January and who knows if later! Is that what you're talking about? — there is any desire to make confusion. The first thing I have to clarify, of course, is that containment and emergency measures are not synonymous. The first ones we support from the very first moment, the second one we oppose also from the very first moment. This state of emergency contains three types of measures. First of all, it has very dubious measures of effectiveness, but of no doubt and no small damage, which the Government does not want to justify and which the presidential decrees do not require the government to justify. Then there are measures that did not need an emergency state to be taken. The laws of civil protection, the basic laws of health and other ordinary laws that the Government would have had more than time to propose to this House so far would have been more than enough. Therefore, the objective becomes clear: it is not about providing coverage for action, but about providing legal coverage and protection to the State, to the detriment of the rights and freedoms of citizens. Thirdly, it has measures that are so excessive that they have never been and will never be used, or were partially used, as is the case with the forced mobilization of people from any sector to work in any health-related sector or the impediment of professionals to disengage from the SNS. So these two measures were slightly, timidly mitigated in this latest version of the decree, and we liked to think that some part of this change was our influence. Whatever the case, it is very little, it is very little — these changes and this mitigation of these excessive measures. These decrees continue to show that the State places its own legal protection in front of the rights and freedoms of the Portuguese. This is unacceptable and enough for the Liberal Initiative to vote against this state of emergency further.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u61	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Lack of income, poor wages, energy poverty, difficulties in access to housing — these are very old issues, which are not necessarily today, which have been delayed for years and are not considered an emergency, either on the left, or on the left or not with other left, as well as on the right, equally connected or not. So this was never an emergency, it was never an emergency. It is in this context of the COVID-19 that we understand that the urgency was this: after all, it is important to invest in the SNS; after all, it is important to increase the national minimum wage, and that it is truly increased for the 900 €, which is the only way to avoid a huge, but even enormous, wave of discouragement. And it is in relation to this discouragement that we need today to look and give objective answers. People are exhausted. People have very serious difficulties: difficulties of survival, difficulties of survival, difficulties of heating today. This is not an environment of a European country, of a European country, of a developed country. Therefore, there is an urgent need for investment in the SNS, but it is necessary not to leave the unemployed months and months waiting for support and also not to leave the elderly destitute. It is urgent that we fight an emergency wave of discouragement. That's urgent!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u63	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have seen an increase in the number of cases, and today the highest number has been reached, about 10,000. According to some experts, Christmas and the passage of the year will have even caused an increase in the contagio chains, which will have triggered a new epidemic wave, so it seems essential to renew this new state of emergency so that, with caution, we can analyze the data and assess the need for its maintenance. It is not a question of trivializing the state of emergency, but of recognizing that we are still experiencing it and, in the meantime, however difficult it may be, we have no choice but to vote in favour of its decree. Moreover, this does not mean that we agree with all the restrictions imposed, because we do not agree. We have repeatedly called attention to the need to find a balance between defending public health and the need to ensure income to families. For example, the obligation to close all establishments at 1 p.m. on the weekend is suffocating small traders and restoration, without the concrete results of this restriction. The culture sector remains extremely fragile and, if it were not the authorities to give closer support to the community and the community itself to organize, it would have been even worse. Consider the case of circuses, some of which have not been able to work for a year and without any adequate support for the survival of those people and animals in charge. One perceives the goodness of having different measures for each council according to the degree of risk, but has made the fulfilment of the measures too complex. To so many, no one knows what he can or what he can't do. Either we have a communication or efficiency problem, or both. And if it is true that the vaccine brings a new hope, it is also true that even feeling its effects will still take a long time, so it is important to continue to raise people's awareness of the need to adopt protective measures. In addition, attention should also be paid to non-COVID patients. The figures show an absenteeism rate between 15 % and 20 %. People are afraid to go to health and hospital units, which can cause many people to not detect certain diseases early, making their treatment difficult in the future. After all the way we've been through, it's important not to lower your arms. I'm done, wishing you all a good year.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u65	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. To close the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are at the beginning of 2021, a year marked by challenges. Despite the vaccine bringing us hope and the mobilization of economic resources in a single dimension within the framework of the decisions recently taken by the European Union, we are faced with the renewal of an exceptional legal framework, which aims to respond to an unparalleled pandemic within the framework of modern history. We've been in a state of emergency since November 6. This is the fifth period when the Assembly of the Republic meets to consider a decree proposed by the President of the Republic, whose approval will result in the adoption of a set of implementing measures, of the responsibility of the Government. in this framework, we are in a long battle, in which we must mobilize ourselves by the cohesion of Portuguese society around the National Health Service, around the defense of the right to education, around the defense of the safeguarding of the economy, in a field in which we still have a difficult challenge. We've been here before the first state of emergency statement. It was before the first statement of the state of emergency that the Government, soon in March, after the first case was checked on 2 March, took such difficult measures and that such necessary measures were shown, such as the closure of schools, that of the Ovar health area or the limitation of economic activity. During the summer we again took the necessary measures, especially in order to combat what was at the time the situation in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, in close association with the municipalities of this region. at this time, we are faced with a decree of singular characteristics, in which what is proposed to us is a week of extension of measures so that, within a week, we may be here with more scientific information, with better knowledge of the framework verified in recent times, to make the decisions necessary for the coming weeks, taking into account the framework of this decisive time for combating the pandemic. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that emergency measures are necessary, but the state of emergency has proved to be the appropriate legal framework for the Government to be able, with the necessary legal strength and with the support that will be reiterated today by the viability of more than 90% of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, take the necessary measures that have united the Portuguese in this fight. That is why, yes, measures are the necessary ones, they are the proportional ones, they are the appropriate ones, and they have to be evaluated regularly here by Parliament, as in the evaluation framework, by the scientific community in what is the permanent update of information that we have on a challenge that none of us anticipated a year ago. That is why, in this framework of necessary measures, yes, Mrs Mariana Silva, it is true that the pedagogical dimension was always what we wanted for the intervention of the security forces, in this very special framework. Yes, Mr. João Oliveira, the measures are proportional, in order to ensure that we are united around the professionals of the National Health Service, we are united around the defense that the new generations have the right to school, have the right to their life course. That is where we safeguard everyone's intervention. Yes, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, we are here united, mobilized, in the defence of the National Health Service and the measures taken in November and December allowed us to mobilize all around the safeguard of an intervention capacity that has always ensured the response capacity of the National Health Service, which has always allowed us to intervene here by lowering the incidence levels of about 1000 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, in November,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...from the peak of occurrence verification at the end of November to the data we have recently appreciated. A response capacity that, yes, Mr. Perhaps more attentive Members, such as Mr João Almeida, have allowed 5 million tests to date to be carried out and 58 000 tests were carried out on 23 December on one day, on the one that was a remarkable response capacity of the entire health sector, defending the safety and health of the Portuguese. This test response compares with any indicator we make here. And, yes, we do so - in respect of democracy, which allows Mr Ventura and the other six presidential candidates to say - because democracy is not suspended - as others have done at other times, their political rights, carrying out party initiatives, realizing the legitimate right that only democracy, only on 25 April, allows us to exercise at every moment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, it is in this context that the extension of the state of emergency allows us to have the necessary information here so that we can, in view of the impact of the new strain found in the United Kingdom and which has determined the adoption of immediate measures to protect public health, also in Portugal, in view of what is evolution, without hiding a reality that brings us to the mark of the 10,000 cases verified today, continue to defend the National Health Service, continue to defend everyone's access to education, continue to defend the maintenance of the economy with measures such as safeguarding employment, that of layoff, that of moratoriums for several economic sectors. They are measures that uphold the safeguard of what is essential for maintaining the functioning of the economy. That is why, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, which surprises me, when he says here that he is accompanying us in the adoption of emergency measures, but I do not understand what is the alternative framework to which he has been applying.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u68	It was they had made a law!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u69	Mr. Hugo Carvalho, I am surprised when the PSD enables the decree of responsibility of Mr. President of the Republic, who is today under consideration, but tells us: "We agree with the state of emergency, but we disagree with the measures. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Hugo Carvalho, which is the country within the framework of the next democratic Europe, namely Spain,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u70	Spain has days!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u71	... France, Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium, to give it sufficient option capacity - where the restrictive measures of economic activity are less than those which have been adopted proportionately and adequately in Portugal? I know that you will not have the opportunity to do this today, but I hope that until the next debate you can find an example. That is why at the time we started the Portuguese Presidency of the European Council in this semester this only reinforces the sense of responsibility of the Portuguese Government. The sense of responsibility, first and foremost, for the Portuguese — is in front of those we are responding to — but also proudly, for a European Union which, around the mobilisation for vaccines, around the mobilization of resources to support economic recovery, accounts for 450 million European citizens. from there the hope of economic recovery, the hope of the 50 000 Portuguese — 40 000 health professionals and 10 000 in the homes and intensive care units — which, by 1 p.m., have already been vaccinated. Just yesterday, 11 800 were vaccinated against COVID-19! It is this hope that the vaccine gives us, that mobilization around economic recovery that obliges us not to struggle to defend the health of all, to defend freedom, to defend democracy. We will be here next week to deepen the necessary measures for this fight, which is everyone's. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u72	We have thus reached the end of this debate on the request for authorisation, requested by the President of the Republic, to renew the state of emergency. We have a very significant quorum, with 213 ladies and gentlemen. Members registered. I remind everyone that we are going to vote on the Decree of the President of the Republic which, summarizing, says: 'The state of public calamity caused by the COVID-19 pandemic is maintained, and it is not possible to hold a new meeting before mid-January with experts with significant data on the evolution of that one, it is necessary to renew the state of emergency for one week, from 8 to 15 January, in terms identical to those that currently exist. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP, PEV, CH, IL and Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, CDS-PP and PAN.]] We say goodbye to the members of the Government here present, especially to the Prime Minister, and thank you very much for the cooperation of all. [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u73	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists and Mr. Security officers. I wish everyone a good year. Let us, then, continue our work. We move on to the third point of the agenda, with the appreciation of Petition No 68 / XIV / 1. a ( José Miguel Correia de Freitas Salgado da Cunha et al.) — Against the elimination of the improvement of the final classification of the discipline by examination. For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From now on, we welcome these young people, families and teachers who have mobilized in their own time, drawing up the petition we are now discussing. For the NAP it was always very clear that the school year did not have to be lost due to the health context in which we live. Obviously, measures had to be taken to avoid contagion in the school context and, therefore, we saw with good eye the reduction in the number of exams at the end of last school year, ensuring the completion of secondary education and access to higher education. On the model of access to higher education, a broad debate will have to be held, in fact, as already recommended by the National Council of Education. In its own time, the NAP presented a project that met this petition, since health exceptionality could not coaduce with the injustice and discrimination of some students. At the time, we proposed that all students who needed or wished to improve their grade could propose the examination in an exceptional scheme. Not to allow it — we understand it at the time and so we continue to understand it — it was to change the starting assumptions of all these young people and their families, to rob them of opportunities. Unfortunately, at the time, the Socialist Party went into denial on this subject, repeatedly saying that students would not be harmed by this same decision. On this subject, we are still waiting for answers to the eight questions that we have addressed to the Minister of Education and, therefore, we still do not have the data. In fact, apart from injustice, we cannot forget the lack of consistency in this measure. See: the number of students who attended the third period in person would be—and it was! — far more than the number of students who would propose the examination to improve the grade, which dropped the argument that the impediment was justified by the need to ensure the health safety of these students. The argument that carrying out these tests would require an extraordinary effort of the external assessment teams, in our understanding, did not take, because this effort and readjustment was already necessary due to the postponement of the examination schedule for the months of August and September, an effort which, of course, these professionals would have to be compensated. For many high school students, this was the possibility of improving their internal average and entry into the desired higher education course and, therefore, they have been conditioned their choices, their projects and their future. On the PAN side, we spare no effort in the appeal to this House to ensure this possibility and, therefore, we are aware of the demand for justice. It is up to those who have opposed or refrained from remembering their responsibility in this process to affect the future of these young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u75	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This petition against the elimination of the improvement of the final classification of the discipline by examination entered the Assembly on 22 April, but we are only discussing it nine months later, which should make us think of the scheduling of these petitions. The national examinations have been carried out for a long time, but, after the entry of this petition, the Liberal Initiative submitted a legislative initiative for the replacement of the normal examination regime in which the examination note counted for the final average of the discipline. This proposal was piped on May 7. On 15 May, the Liberal Initiative again drew attention to this in meeting with the Prime Minister, but the situation did not change and Parliament did not seek to change it either. So it was not only the government, it was also this Parliament that did not want to know about the equal treatment of candidate students ; it did not want to know of students who worked all year, nor of parents and teachers who helped them, to improve their grades, and who saw the rules change in the middle of the game, thus affecting their prospects for continued studies. Worse than that, the only justification for the measure was not that of the health conditions, it was that the schedule for improvement of grades would have an effect on teachers' holidays.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u77	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u78	Once again, the interests of teachers in front of the students' interests. The strongest, those who have unions, those who already vote, in front of those who should be encouraged by a healthy society and whose merit should be recognized. But no one is expecting that of a Socialist Party, which is that machine to occupy and distribute power. At the Liberal Initiative, we're different. We are with the students and all the young people who work hard and who every day want to help make a better country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u79	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u80	Madam President: I would like to greet the young people and young petitioners who have alerted us to a deep problem of our education system, that of the role that national examinations represent in the system of access to higher education. A regime so unjust and so little founded on the academic course of students, in the efforts of students throughout their entire life of compulsory education, that any small change in a variable affects or ultimately benefits the future of these young people forever. This is a symptom of an unfair system and the pandemic has precisely shown the problems and limitations of a system of access to higher education which is expired and anachronic in relation to the profile of the student at the exit of compulsory education, in relation to all efforts made to massify and democratize compulsory education and, now, also higher education. But the pandemic showed something else. The pandemic showed an unfair system of entry into higher education, but also showed an educational system hostage. He showed that compulsory education is a hostage of the selection of students for higher education. During a pandemic in which schools closed; in which families were without support; in which children and young people did not support distance, many of them for economic reasons; in which there were children without specialized follow-up, in fundamental stages for their human, intellectual and personal development; in which there were students with special health needs without follow-up, in which all vocational education was left without classes, the priority of the government, during this period, was to carry out the examinations of the completion of the scientific-humanistic courses for students who finished 12. year. For any social or pedagogical concern? Oh, my God! No, no, no. Because higher education institutions do not abdicate from this instrument of selection and serialization of students who enter universities and higher education and therefore do not abdicate that compulsory education is hostage and subordinate to the choice of those who enter, in which course, with which mean and for which it wanders. The National Education Council has already warned about this problem, which has been discussed for a long time. Its costs are enormous, they are in view of everyone and it was important that this blockage to many of the solutions that are necessary for our educational system to view this pandemic as a moment of deep and necessary reflection, as an opportunity for this reflection. The challenge we have left is to open a debate on the system of access to higher education and on the role of national examinations in this access regime, a debate under which the National Education Council has already proposed and that this pandemic and the injustices demonstrated by it are a start in the check-mate to national examinations and to this system of entry into higher education. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u81	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP welcomes the more than 8000 subscribers of the petition against the elimination of the improvement of the final classification of the discipline by exam and all students who have faced an extraordinary change which, of course, drastically altered a series of expectations and the prospects they had at such a decisive stage of life as that of completion of secondary education and access to higher education. For the PCP, education is a fundamental right and a determining condition for the individual and collective emancipation of youth, the population in general, and workers in particular. Therefore, it is with a particular note of sadness that we say that the intervention that the Liberal Initiative here has done, trying to fracture the educational community, antagonizing teachers and students, is deeply regrettable and we repudiate this observation. For us, the access and frequency of the highest degrees of teaching and knowledge is not a mere constitutional pro-formity, it is a right that must be respected and realized. To this end, all conditions must be guaranteed for no one to be excluded for economic reasons, such as the removal of all barriers, such as the examinations in the current model in which they exist and which prevent the access and frequency of higher education from everyone they aspire and wish. More knowledge and science in all areas that embrace more population is not a bad thing; on the contrary, it means more progress and more conditions to meet the challenges of the future individually and collectively. Therefore, all barriers must be removed so that this is a reality. For this reason, the CFP was concerned about the impact of the exceptional and temporary response measures to the COVID-19 pandemic on education and on the educational course of all students, including those who would make access to higher education in 2020 and, in our own time, we maintain, as we continue to defend, that the exceptional situation we are living called for exceptional solutions, because the adoption of a set of appropriate prevention procedures would have a clear impact on the normal functioning of public services and, as it could not be, would have a direct impact on the functioning of schools. As for national examinations, we proposed in Bill No. 360 / XIV / 1. the first amendment was made to the decree establishing the exceptional and temporary measures in the area of education within the pandemic, which the students carried out national final examinations only in the disciplines they chose as proof of entry for purposes of access to higher education, being still allowed to perform these examinations for improvement of note and highlighting their result for the classification of entry proof and for the improvement of the final internal classification of secondary education, in the case of self-proposed students, and we tried constructively, and even to the limit of possible in process of speciality, that our wording of Article 8 (3). it could be approved, but it was rejected, with the votes against the PS and the abstention of the PSD. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is now important to know what the Government wants to do about the procedures to be adopted in preparing the process of access to higher education in the academic year to end this year, which we will not stop questioning the Ministry of Education and the existence of the current model of national examinations, which must be reconsidered and debated.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u83	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 8,000 petitioners who signed this petition, who entered Parliament in good time on 22 April, the intentions of the Ministry of Education expressed in Decree-Law No 14 - G / 2020 were hardly known. Essentially, the petition asked that the possibility of using national examinations as an opportunity to improve the internal grade of secondary school should not be eliminated until then. I remember that in the previous year, about 38 000 students had benefited from this possibility. And this was as important as, in the year in question, the exams did not weigh on the internal average, i.e., the average of the secondary, on their own, was worth more in access to higher education. As has already been said, several parties presented proposals because they were sensitive to this change of rules in the middle of the game: the CDS presented a proposal, the NAP and the IL also presented, but all were rejected with the votes against the PS and the abstention of the PSD and the PCP. Basically, with these rejections, the opportunity was eliminated for students to be able to improve their results through additional effort. And for what? What were the arguments? Basically, so that there are less logistics and fewer tests to correct in the year of pandemic. We now know that 256,211 national examinations were conducted, less than 80 000 in the previous year, but there were also fewer than 8310 registered students, the result of demography. We know that many of these tests counted not only as proof of entry but also as improvement of note, so it cannot be said that this elimination has, in fact, resulted in a reduction in the number of tests, but it can be said that it has harmed several students because they cannot improve their note as in many cases, in a three-year cycle, they had as their expectation. Therefore, since nothing we can do for the past year, which is dealt with, the big question is what will be the decision of the rules for next year, which should already be known, because students schedule their study and their organization of activities in advance. It would be good if, perhaps for the week, with the presence of the Minister, we could see clearly what the rules of the game are going to be for this year, since that, yes, is the matter which we are now interested in clarifying.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u85	Mr António Cunha has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners here under discussion and saying that Decree-Law No 14 - G / 2020 soon determined that the national exams would serve only as proof of entry, preventing students from making improvements to the internal notes of the disciplines. Objectively, the changes disappointed students when they were unable to improve their entry classification. I would remind you — and I said here — that there were students whose life plan is focused exclusively on preparing for the exams so that they can improve their average entry. That's why the petitioners went to this house. We all know what the result was: national exams have ceased to be mandatory for completion of secondary school disciplines, but only indispensable as proof of entry. But it matters, quickly, to know what will happen this year. How long will the students stay without knowing what's in store for them? We know, and know the government, that this year there are schools that have had high school classes in distance education; we know, and we also know the government, that during 1. the period there were students in this country who did not have a single class in disciplines such as Mathematics, Portuguese, Science, Biology, Geography, among others, but the balance sheet that Mr. Minister of Education makes of 1. the period of this academic year—is no longer! — it is extremely positive! We know, and the Director-General of Health has already made it public, that the new variant of SARS-CoV-2 already circulates in Portugal and that it may have a greater ability to circulate between children and young people, which may involve new containment and restriction measures in schools, and all this has implications. It is good to remember that the school year 2020 / 2021 is as the year in which the largest number of students enrolled in 1 was registered. the year of higher education. Therefore, it is essential that, early and early, and not early, as last year, educational communities know what access to higher education will be like for 2021 / 2022. Students will be waiting until 25. The hour? In fact, we should all know where you are and what rules are going to take place this year. We are no longer in an emergency context, but indeed in a contingencies. What are the measures taken by the Ministry of Education to avoid sudden variations in the level of difficulty of the annual exams such as those that happened last year and that are reflected in the students’ final classifications? Therefore, we must not fail to call attention to the importance of transparency of procedures. The clarity of communication is the essential condition for the trust of students and their families. at this point, the inoperance, laxism or the government's inability to clarify the entire process of access to higher education will call into question the legitimate rights of students. Access to higher education should promote equity, equal opportunities and is one of the main drivers of social mobility and is part of the social-democrat matrix. PSD values, I repeat, evaluation, exams and merit. In the organization of the current education system, the PSD considers that external evaluation of learning is one of the most effective regulatory instruments indispensable to proper development of curriculum and learning. We understand, and we have also said here, that external evaluation should evolve into a process in which not only knowledge is evaluated but also the ability of students to mobilize these knowledge to solve problems, to think and to question critically. We do not abhor exams and other tools for external evaluation of learning. We do not underestimate the fundamental value of knowledge, nor do we ignore the structuring power of curricular content that serves as its foundation. More: Diagnosis tests began in schools today to evaluate the students' learning of the 3. o, 6. it's 9. years. Why did high school stay out of school? The IAVE ( Institute for Educational Assessment ), responsible for these tests, says that the results reports will be made available during the 2nd. the period for the implementation of the recovery measures considered necessary to fill any learning deficits. But are the schools going to fill these deficits when? In short 3. the period after which there will be final evidence for 9. the year and exams for 11. o and 12. years? The Secretary of State, at the parliamentary hearing last July, said that this process would be done during 1. the period. This is how our Ministry of Education walks : always late! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u87	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Aragon has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me begin by congratulating the petitioners and allow me the petitioners to address me not only to them but to all the students who have entered higher education. It's for all the students we talk about, because the measurements, when they're thought, are even for everyone. Let me also refocus the debate, because what we are discussing is not an abstract evaluation model, it is the adaptation of concrete measures at a time, too, very concrete. The object of this petition was temporarily limited and is already exhausted in its useful effect. However, its discussion remains relevant, because it allows us now to evaluate the whole process and allows us to evaluate an option taken in due time, especially because we always try to create chaos even knowing the results. We then assess the context and decisions that give rise to this petition and the results of these decisions and access to higher education by 2020. At the beginning of the pandemic crisis, and in the full state of emergency, after the closure of schools and the enormous uncertainty about the school year, it was necessary quickly to generate stability and predictability in access to higher education. It is recalled that at this stage many options were defended, some of them completely antagonistic, about what should happen in 3. the period, in access to higher education, in conducting or not examinations, in postponement or not of access and until postponement or not of the beginning of the academic year at universities. In Decree-Law No. 14 - G / 2020 of 13 April, which gives rise to this petition, the Government adapts the general access regime, approving exceptional measures that allow students entering this year for the first time and trying to do so under fair conditions, and that, on the other hand, students who have tried it in previous years and who repeat that attempt also do so to each other on equity issues, but also on equity issues with students this year. Let us, then, to the facts, because the extemporaneousness of this petition now has the virtuality to allow us to be assessed. On these management options in the context we live in, we can still disagree, it is legitimate, but the facts are actually facts. The national examinations took place in peace, in public health and in a situation of equity — indeed! The competition for access to higher education has been on record, and more than 62 000 students have applied for the first stage of the competition, the largest number since 1996 — indeed! More than 11 000 students have applied in 2019, even with the extremely difficult contingencies of this year – indeed! The vacancies in higher education grew to a total of almost 57 000, after a reinforcement of more than 4700 vacancies—fact! From 2019 to 2020, there is an increase of around 5300 vacancies, i.e. an increase of 10 %—fact! The first academic year in higher education for these students and the semester that will now end have taken place calmly and with the normality of these circumstances and of this time—fact! Therefore, adapting the rules was a clear and direct consequence of the management of a pandemic. But there is one question that we have insisted on: managing the pandemic cannot slow down the course we have been going on in this and other areas to reach the goals we are committed to. The pandemic changed conditions, but not the way. So we must remember that, after all in 2020, and for the first time in Portugal, half of the 20-year-olds are studying in higher education. They were 40% in 2015. This is also a fact and it is not little!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u89	Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the circumstances, we all know that this year would not normally take place and that changes in access to higher education should try to maintain the criteria of justice, transparency, clarity and predictability. We all know that. It was very difficult to fight the injustices that this interruption would normally create. But, above all, it is a truth that cannot be ignored and that has been referred to by the PSD: there are students whose life project has shrunk to prepare national exams. The question that arises is whether we want a system of access to higher education that makes students cinjam and summarize their educational project, their academic life, during their 12 years of compulsory schooling, to prepare national exams.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u91	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u92	I will finish, Madam President. In such an unfair way, that, at the time when these tests have to be circumstantially altered, even in a rather light way, the course of these young people is damaged or determined forever. We must seriously consider whether this is the system of access to higher education that the country needs and that will democratise access to higher education. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u93	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Buno Aragão, I have listened very carefully to you. The honourable Member began by saying that he wanted to refocus the debate, and I thought it was to focus on the petition. He spoke of many facts, but he did not only speak of one, which is that of the petition: he did not speak on the factual advantage of having eliminated the possibility of improvement of note. Is it because there is no advantage or is it still going to spend your 15 seconds of time to prove to us that this elimination has been advantageous?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u95	Mr Bebiana Cunha has the floor, for one speech, with time given by the Greens Ecological Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking the ENP for giving up time. I just wanted to say the following: Mr Bruno Aragão, none of the facts he presented to us have to do with the purpose of the petition. That is the fact that I would like to make it very clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u97	Mr Aragão has the floor for an intervention in his remaining time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Only so that there is no doubt that this petition arises within a set of measures that alter the form of access to higher education exactly to ensure access conditions. When we show the access data and what this set of measures was created, exactly to ensure access conditions, you ignore all the numbers...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u99	You don't know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u100	...and then accuse the Socialist Party of doing exactly that. It was to create access conditions that created these measures! Access conditions have been guaranteed and exceeded all numbers, and that is what remains of this difficult time for thousands and thousands of students. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u101	We have reached the end of this debate. We move on to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists of the joint assessment of Petition No 85 / XIV / 1. a (António Ricardo Diegues da Silva et al.) — Masks for all-Required use of face mask in the community together with Resolution Projects Nos 380 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By the immediate distribution of masks to all security forces, private security and prison guards and 384 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — Due to the obligation to use protective masks in supermarkets during the pandemic. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition in question of 25 May was signed by more than 4000 people and defends the mandatory use of face mask in the community, in the closed public space or in the open air and also the promotion of information about its correct use. The petitioners defend these principles by justifying that the mask protects the self and others, thus contributing to the effective reduction of the rate of infection. All this, or almost all, is already reflected on the legislative basis: on the one hand, in Article 13. o-B of Decree-Law No 20 / 2020, of 1 May, which made the use of masks compulsory in closed spaces, among which, specifically, commercial establishments and supermarkets, thus making the Draft Resolution No 384 / XIV / 1 redundant. a ( CH), which is also under discussion today; on the other hand, it is already reflected in Law No 62 -A / 2020 of 3 September which imposes, in transitoryly, the mandatory use of masks in public spaces. And it also echoes both the NAP proposals and the Greens Greens Ecological Party, recently discussed and approved, on awareness-raising campaigns for the correct use of facial mask. Therefore, on the use of protective masks, the truth is that in Portugal we have already travelled a long way, since the rejection of its use by public authorities, such as DGS (Direction-General of Health), up to the present moment, in which it is already mandatory in almost all circumstances, except in our homes. The petition arises, exactly, in the middle of this process, when it had already ceased to be rejected, but it was not yet compulsory in all circumstances. It seems to me that, today, your purposes are already being achieved and, therefore, it is for this reason that I assume that the petition is not echoed in legislative initiatives, because in fact it is already fully achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u103	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we would like to greet the petitioners. In fact, more than nine months have passed since the first case of COVID-19 in Portugal, which motivates this initiative, but we still have much to learn about this virus, with no single or total certainty. However, there are learnings that are evidenced by the scientific community as prevention strategies, such as the effectiveness of non-pharmacological measures, such as hygiene, physical distance, respiratory label and mask use. We do not tire, therefore, of stressing that the use of masks is an act of responsibility before the life of the other, it is an act of respect and protection of the health of those who live with us. The mask we use protects others, the mask of others protects us and should be used when there are no recommended conditions of health safety and distance. in this matter, the NAP has always settled its position in the principle of caution. We have recommended, since the beginning of this health crisis, the provision of PPE(individual protective equipment) to all professionals who were in the front line and who have ensured the functioning of the country at the time of general confinement. at this moment, there is already availability of these equipment, but it is obviously essential that this is maintained and that there are no failures in its supply, but the important thing to withdraw from here is the concern of the citizens for the application of these rules. It is up to the Government to ensure that all measures of social, economic and health protection are taken, that Parliament is responsible for monitoring and that each of us is responsible for ensuring compliance with these rules, which protect lives and accelerate the possibility of us regaining some normality and also a socio-economic recovery. It is, in all, a balance that is required, but it also requires consistency in measures, a commitment that we have to make with people so that we do not fail as a society. And because epidemiological results show a new and worrying outbreak of infections, this is not the time to be discouraged, it is time to continue to make the effort that we all have to do in the fight against this virus.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u105	Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are addressed to the more than 4000 petitioners who signed the petition « Masks for all — compulsory use of face mask in the community», right at the beginning of the pandemic, demonstrating the concern with all and referring that the use of the mask could be a way of reducing the contagion and thus combating COVID-19. Despite this petition having been introduced for some time now, the development of the pandemic has imposed a fairly broad set of restrictions and changes on the day-to-day of all, which require this consideration. With the evolution of the knowledge of the disease, the Directorate-General of Health itself, taking into account the indications of the World Health Organization, recommended the use of masks as a complement to protection, but never substitute for other decisive behaviors. Today, the use of masks has become even mandatory in interior spaces and whenever physical distance cannot be maintained abroad. The number of people who began to make regular use of mask increased and, with this safety and protection behavior, also unfortunately increased the production of more waste. Since October 2020, the use of mask has ceased to be a recommendation and has become mandatory in some situations, the Greens consider it necessary to create the conditions for all Portuguese to have access to masks that serve as personal and collective protection and without which they are prevented from circulating and interacting in certain situations. Thus, so that "no one will stay behind" and with the economic difficulties faced by families today, it would be more correct and, above all, more fair for the State to fulfil its role and distribute social masks for all, and also contribute so that the disposable material does not continue to grow and that new problems are not being created. However, this proposal, which was presented by the Greens to include the State Budget of 2021, a proposal that would have a reduced budgetary impact, was rejected with the votes against the PS, the CDS, the Liberal Initiative and the abstention of the PSD and the Arrival, all very concerned about the environment and the health of the Portuguese, but that is only when this concern is reflected in the economy of large companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u107	Mr José Magalhães of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to convey the greetings of the PS Parliamentary Group to the petitioners and petitioners and to all those who identify themselves with their ideas and their proposals, which have been transmitted to us, as has already been observed, a long time ago, at a time when we almost do not remember. They were heard in June by a delegation of Members and Members and, by that time, there was still a significant controversy on this subject. The truth is, at first, there were no masks. Portugal has had to import in conditions all turned to the external market and we have succeeded — this is a collective victory of Portuguese business fabric, imagination and innovation — selling to those who need the use of high quality masks, which are only not exported more intensively because certifications based on nationalist/bureaucratic reasons make this work difficult. That is not what prevented companies from developing their initiatives and today we do not lack masks and we have masks at controlled prices, although it was not necessary to use exceptional mechanisms to break market rules. This is a huge difference which I think has greatly helped the success of the law which the Assembly of the Republic approved — initially by the idea of the government, then by the PSD initiative — to impose the mandatory use of masks in public spaces. This law may not be sufficiently known, but deserves great attention, because it is very balanced, since it does not make the use of mandatory mask indiscriminately — only for people from 10 years of age — and it may happen that it is dispensed, in certain cases which the law lists, in particular by submitting a medical certificate of multi-use disability or medical declaration for people with certain disabilities, as well as other exceptions. In other words, the law is not blind, the law has been disclosed and, above all, as any one of us can see, when walking, for example, in public transport and through the public way, the law is generally complied with, without any reaction, because people are aware and increasingly reinforced this awareness that there is an instrument of self-defence and defense of the community itself against an implacable virus, which requires measures of prophylaxis. Do we have to make an effort for its permanent use, for its proper placement, for its replacement according to the temporal compass that scientists recommend? We certainly have no doubt, but the truth is that very important steps have been taken. Another thing I would like to point out is that masks have brought with them an improvement in the fight against the flu epidemic, which, at this time of year, has devastated us and, therefore, have reduced the incidence of these cases, which, in itself, is a benefit. On the other hand, it is proven that the masks have preserved the personnel of the first line and had an absolutely essential role in their defense, being their use by the forces and the absolutely essential security services. In addition, the ministry has already spent more than EUR 1, EUR 6 million on the distribution of these masks, both to the personnel of the security forces and the fire department, and an effort which, of course, must continue and, in our view, be intensified. So what we have in front of us is more work, more information and we cannot have a shadow of relaxation in the use of measures that can save us from this scourge that has been brought down on humanity. That is our vote, and that is why we will also fight here, Madam President, and on all the necessary fronts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u109	Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome the petitioners who have allowed us this debate. It is true that there are aspects of the petition that are already being implemented, which shows only the reason why the petitioners and the petitioners are attending, but, in spite of all, there are some small aspects that need to be realized. When the petitioners were heard, in committee, for the preparation of the report, the issue of the mandatory use of the mask in closed spaces, such as supermarkets, etc. , for example, it was already settled, and that was admitted by the petitioners at the same hearing. There was another aspect, which had to do with the mandatory use of the mask on the street, in open public spaces, which was not yet realized, but which, however, was already done, not only by law, but even before that, because people had already adopted this behavior. But there are two aspects which have not yet been raised in this debate and which are contained in this petition. One of them has to do with the need to have a communication with the population about the correct use of the mask. We have discussed several times in the Assembly of the Republic not only about the correct use of the mask, but also about the incentive to use reusable masks to the detriment of disposable masks, and it was important that these communication campaigns were more present and not only by digital means, to which most of the population still does not have access. There is also another question: petitioners know well that, if the population is required to use the mask, then access to this equipment must also be given to the population. Therefore, in this petition it is also recommended that free masks be distributed to the population, something which, in fact, the Left Block proposed twice that we discuss here bills to make the use of the mask compulsory on the street. of the two times that the Left Block made this proposal, it ended up rejected, with the votes against the PS and the CDS and the abstentions from the PSD, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative. Now, these parties, indeed, cannot demand the use of the mask and still above, try to fine-tune its non-compliance—that is what is in the legislation—and then know that there are, of course, many people who use the same mask indefinitely, without guaranteeing protection to anyone, since it cannot be used indefinitely, just because they cannot have access to new masks or reusable masks. This was an obligation of the State and the public institutions and I would like to stress that this is exactly what is stated in the petition. We did not present this proposal again because, even recently, about 15 days ago, we brought it to the Assembly of the Republic and it was rejected, despite being of the most basic justice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u111	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the PCP Parliamentary Group also addresses compliance with the petitioners who brought this concern to the Assembly of the Republic on the recommendations for the protection of public health, in particular with regard to the use of masks, with regard to the fight against the epidemic of COVID-19. Since the delivery of this petition until today, the recommendations of the national health authority on the use of masks have known various developments. On public health protection measures, it should be noted that these must be defined according to every moment and every particular situation, so that they can be more appropriate in view of the reality we live in and the epidemiological situation at every moment. They should also take into account the technical and scientific knowledge that is being acquired. We are facing an epidemic and can say that today, at the scientific level, we already know more about the SARS-CoV-2 virus than at the beginning of 2020. But we do not know everything, so it is natural that there continues to be this evolution and this new knowledge that is being acquired is important to update those that are the most appropriate recommendations for combating the pandemic, but also for protecting the health of all of us, in particular those who integrate risk groups and who are most vulnerable to COVID-19. A third aspect we would like to mention is the responsibility for defining public health recommendations. We consider this to be a responsibility of the national health authority, which holds the technical means and scientific knowledge that allow to determine public health recommendations for collective protection. In our country, we have seen a very significant reception of compliance with the recommendations of the national health authority by the population, being the use of masks one of these elements, but it is also of course important to comply with the other recommendations of the health authority, such as those already mentioned regarding hygiene, respiratory label and physical distance. For example, as far as physical distance is concerned, there are aspects on which a set of measures must be adopted, because, after all these months, we continue to have, at certain times, overcrowded public transport, not ensuring physical distance. I wanted to leave a note to say that the protection of public health of all also requires, in addition to compliance with the recommendations, the strengthening of investment in the National Health Service. And I am referring to three aspects of enormous relevance, which are not too much to reiterate: strengthening public health with more means, with a view to greater capacity to identify outbreaks, to break transmission chains quickly, so that there are no delays, such as those that have already occurred at various times in the conduct of epidemiological surveys; strengthening the National Health Service with more professionals to treat COVID patients; and also strengthening public responses, either from primary health care, or from hospitals, to ensure that all citizens have access to the health care they are entitled to and that there has actually been a recovery of the delays that have occurred. We consider these to be matters of great importance, either with regard to compliance with the recommendations defined by the health authority or with regard to the measures necessary to strengthen the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u113	For an intervention, Mr Maló de Abreu, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is exactly one year ago that we heard, about the first known cases of the new coronary virus in China, this reassuring statement: « The good news is that nothing indicates that there is transmission from person to person. They perfect exactly 11 months today that this secure guarantee has been given to us: « Don’t wear mask, because it gives a false sense of security. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a petition signed by more than 4000 citizens — and I am now taking advantage of them to greet them — who in May last called for the Assembly of the Republic to approve a law establishing, in Portugal, the compulsory use of face mask by all people in public, in any place outside their home, not only in schools and public transport, but also in indoor spaces closed with multiple people, as well as during public traffic. Two initiatives were associated with this petition, recommending to the Government, one of them, the distribution of masks to all security forces, private security and prison guards and, the other, the mandatory use of protective masks in supermarkets during the pandemic. As it is easy to see, the diplomas currently under discussion, all of them already presented for more than half a year, sought to answer the problems that, however, were already the subject of the demanding measures. Thus, on 27 October last year, the law through which the Assembly of the Republic approved, in addition to the proposal of the Social Democratic Party, the mandatory use of masks in public spaces, including public roads, where the physical distance recommended by the health authorities is impractical. In view of the limited duration of this diploma, the PSD has, however, proposed its extension, now for a period of 90 days and has already been published on the last day of the year. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD shares the concerns of the petitioners. We believe that the pandemic is a human tragedy and therefore we cannot hesitate, loosen or strike in combat. What is expected of the government is that it will fulfill its duty and worry more about saving lives and less with smoking curtains and propaganda maneuvers. This is a government that has a difficult relationship with the description, because it lacks, often, good sense and sense of state, and also seems to be a failure in education, in internal administration, in justice and in health, because it is without north and reveals an impossible relationship with truth. It is a government responsible for the excess mortality caused by its decision to suspend the planned activity in the National Health Service without ensuring that Portuguese alternatives are timely in the provision of health services. This is a government that misleads Mr. President of the Republic himself by ensuring that there would be vaccines against influenza for everyone, recognizing now that the Portuguese were deceived by the Minister of Health. This is a government that leaves behind the elderly and chronic patients who will only be vaccinated in the second half of this year, if possible, or perhaps only in the near future, to comply with the tradition of non-compliance, when protecting the most fragile, among the fragile, is not just a health priority, it is above all an ethical duty and a moral imperative. In the face of all this, added to the imminent rupture of the National Health Service, more than predictable, and already visible, by manifest ignorance and unforeseenness, the truth is only one and this is this: they wait - in lead days. There is no, I do not know and I do not know that there are sweet words to tell the Portuguese that pain, suffering and mourning, by COVID and not COVID, are not extinguished by any more that miracles are announced to manage immediate expectations. I discredit myself in confessing the fairness and caution of the policies followed by the government that we should have, but we do not, therefore, incapacitated. Incapacity was what I meant and said. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u115	We have thus finished our work today. In the meantime, I ask Secretary Diogo León to make some announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Parliamentary Appreciation No 37 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and Law Proposals No. 66 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), 67 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) and 68 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ). Bill Nos 610 / XIV / 2 also entered. a ( BE), 611 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 612 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 614 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and 615 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ). Finally, I refer to the presentation of Resolution Projects Nos 814 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 818 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 819 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 820 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 821 / XIV / 2. a (BE), 822 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 823 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 824 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 825 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 826 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 827 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 828 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 829 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 830 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 831 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 832 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 833 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 834 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) and 835 / XIV / 2. a (PEV). Madam President, with your permission, I would also announce to the Members who were present at the session by videoconferencing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u117	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u118	Mr President, I inform you that the following Members were present by videoconference at this plenary meeting. Ladies and gentlemen: Mr André Coelho Lima, Sara Madruga da Costa, Sérgio Marques and Sofia Matos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, and Mr. Members Jorge Gomes, Norberto Patinho and Sonia Fertuzinhos, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-06.u119	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I remember the ladies and gentlemen. Members who begin tomorrow's plenary meeting at 3 p.m. on the agenda as a single item, a legislative agenda required together by the PSP and PAN parliamentary groups on the basis of the legislative initiatives to be referred to: Drafts of Law No 577 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Approves the Basics of Climate Policy Act, 131 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Climate Base Act, 446 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the basis of climate policy and action, 526 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Climate Policy Framework Act, 578 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Climate Base Act, 598 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Climate Base Act, 605 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Defines the basis of climate policy, and 609 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Basic law of climate policy. We have thus reached the end of today's meeting. I wish everyone a good rest of the day. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 56 minutes.]]
