ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-09.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Invited, the solemn Posse Session of the President of the Republic is open. [[It was 10 hours.]] The session is then suspended until we begin the following ceremony, to receive the guests and Mr. Ex. President of the Republic, who, as you know, is also the President of the elected Republic. We will resume our work about 10 hours and 30 minutes. The session is suspended. [[It was 10 hours.]] Mr. President of the Republic, also Mr. President of the elected Republic, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests, Ladies and gentlemen, I declare reopening the session. [[It was 10 hours and 32 minutes.]] Allow me, first of all, to thank the presence of all and all in this solemn session, in which, before the Assembly of the Republic, in which the people's sovereignty resides, the President of the elected Republic takes possession. This Session and this Ceremony take place in a limited format, with the presence of a very small number of Members of Parliament and Members in the Chamber of Sessions, because many follow us from their offices, and a small group of guests, although with the solemnity that such a moment, the President of the Republic, the President of all Portuguese and all Portuguese, elected by the universal and direct suffrage of the last 24 January 2021, justifies. Ladies and gentlemen, I now ask the Second Secretary of the Bureau, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to read the report of the meeting of the General Settlement Assembly of the President of the Republic. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the House of Representatives shall be entitled to read as follows: « on the first day of February of two thousand twenty-one, for nine hours in Lisbon, in the Ratton Palace, the seat of the Constitutional Court, met in accordance with and for the purposes of Articles 105. o 110. that of Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, the General Settlement Assembly for the election of the President of the Republic, formed in accordance with the provisions of Article 98. the, paragraph 1, of Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November. The Assembly, consisting of 1. the Section of the Tribunal, was chaired by the Judge Counsellor President Manuel da Costa Andrade, the Judges Counsellor José António Teles Pereira, João Pedro Caupers, Maria de Fátima Mata-Mouros, and speaking by video conference the Judge Counsellor José João Abrantes. He recorded the work João Correia, author of law of 4. the Section of the Judicial Secretary of the Constitutional Court, assisted by Norberto Grabulho, auxiliary writer. Opening the session, the Assembly began the clearance, first analyzing the tops of the district clearance assemblies and then the tops of the intermediate clearance assemblies available. It was found that there was a lack of Beira, Cape Town, Mexico City, Johannesburg, Prague and Riade. in the case of Beira, it was found that, due to natural disaster, the vote had been postponed, having only occurred on the thirty-hundred and thirty-one days of January, so the respective clearance had not yet been completed. In the light of the existence of discrepancies in the total number of participants in the mid-term clearance of Maputo, additional clarifications were requested at the respective clearance assembly. Having received votes and votes on the previous vote and which did not arrive in due time at the respective voting assemblies, the Assembly determined that both parties must be destroyed in order to preserve the secrecy of the electoral will which they intended to see expressed. The Assembly suspended the work about thirteen hours and fifteen minutes, scheduling its continuation for the day three February, for the 15 hours, so that the missing data could be made available in the meantime. on the 3rd February, for the 15 hours, the work was resumed, under the chairmanship of the Judge Counsellor President Manuel da Costa Andrade and the Judges Counsellors José António Teles Pereira, João Pedro Caupers, Maria de Fátima Mata-Mouros and José João Abrantes. He registered the law writer João Correia, assisted by Norberto Grabulho, auxiliary writer. It was found that, with the exception of the City of Mexico, the interim clearance pans were initially missing, but had been received, the verification was carried out. In view of the fact that the Brussels interim clearance assembly sent to this House a rectification of the document originally submitted, the results were corrected. The results relating to mid-term clearance of Maputo were also corrected according to the correction received. for the fifteen hours and forty-five minutes, the work was suspended, so that the minutes of the intermediate settlement of Mexico City could be given in the meantime. for the seventeen hours, the work was resumed. The results of the voting assembly of Mexico City were verified, however received. in accordance with Article 108. in Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, the following results were obtained: Signed: ten million, eight hundred and forty-seven thousand, four hundred and thirty-four voters; White vows: forty-seven thousand one hundred sixty-four; No votes: thirty-eight thousand and eighteen; Marisa Isabel dos Santos Matias : one hundred and sixty-five thousand, one hundred and twenty-seven, corresponding to 3, 96 %; Marcelo Nuno Duarte Rebelo de Sousa: two million, five hundred and thirty thousand, six hundred and ninety-two, corresponding to 60, 67 %; Tiago Pedro de Sousa Mayan Gonçalves: one hundred and thirty-four thousand, nine hundred and ninety-one, corresponding to 3, 23 %; André Claro Amaral Ventura : four hundred and ninety-seven thousand, seven hundred and forty-six, corresponding to 11, 93 %; Vitorino Francisco da Rocha e Silva : one hundred and twenty-three thousand and thirty-one, corresponding to 2, 95 %; João Manuel Peixato Ferreira: one hundred and seventy-nine thousand, seven hundred and sixty-four, corresponding to 4, 31%; Ana Maria Rosa Martins Gomes :five hundred forty thousand, eight hundred and three, corresponding to 12, 96 %; validly expressed votes: four million, one hundred and seventy-three thousand, one hundred and seventy-four; Voters: four million, two hundred and fifty-eight thousand, three hundred and fifty-six, corresponding to 39, 26 %; Abstaining: six million, five hundred and eighty-nine thousand and seventy-eight, corresponding to 60, 74 %. It was thus found that, having obtained more than half of the validly expressed votes, it was in accordance with Article 126 ( 1 ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, elected candidate Marcelo Nuno Duarte Rebelo de Sousa. After what was proclaimed by the President of the Court the results of the general clearance and, in accordance with them, declared elected President of the Republic the citizen Marcelo Nuno Duarte Rebelo de Sousa. The work was closed by 19 hours and 15 minutes. The present until was washed, which, after read and found in accordance, will be signed by all present. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-09.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Duarte Pacheco. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for the President of the elected Republic to swear by the form prescribed in Article 127 ( 3 ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. On stand, the President of the elected Republic, before the other members of the Bureau and the assistance, standing, swore an oath on the original of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, reading the constitutional formula, of the following content: I swear by my honour to faithfully perform the functions in which I am invested and defend, fulfill and enforce the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[Upstairs, PS, PSD and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[Then the Republican National Guard Band, posted in the Lost Steps, executed the national anthem.]] The President of the Republic will now sign the declaration of commitment which he has just made. I ask the First Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, to read the car of possession.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-09.u4	The car of possession is of the following content: « At nine days of March of two thousand twenty-one, before the Assembly of the Republic, for the purpose of meeting in the Chamber of Sessions of the Palace of São Bento, solemnly took possession of the President of the Portuguese Republic elected in twenty-four January of two thousand twenty-one, Professor Marcelo Nuno Duarte Rebelo de Sousa. After reading the minutes of the General Settlement Assembly of the Election of the President of the Republic, Professor Marcelo Nuno Duarte Rebelo de Sousa gave solemn oaths in the form prescribed in Article 127 (3). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. To note that the present car of possession has been washed away, which will be signed by His Excellency the President of the Republic and the President of the Assembly of the Republic. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[At the moment, the President of the elected Republic and the President of the Assembly of the Republic have signed the car of possession.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-09.u5	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Court of Auditors, former Presidents of the Republic, Dr Manuela Eanes, Mrs and Mrs. Ministers of State, Mr. President of the City Council of Lisbon, Mrs. and Mrs. Vice-Presidents of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs and Mrs. Chairmen of parliamentary groups, Attorney-General of the Republic, Chief of the Staff of the Armed Forces, Ombudsman, President of the CDS-PP, Chiefs of the Army, Army and Air Force, H.E. the Reverend Apostolic Nuncio, Dean of the Diplomatic Corps, in his representation, Mr. President of the Portuguese Episcopal Conference, Ms. and Mrs. Candidates to the President of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The Assembly of the Republic meets today, on 9 March, in Solene Session, to witness the takeover of the President of the Republic, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. This is undoubtedly one of the most important acts of our democracy, and as actors, in a perfect example of interdependence, the two sovereign bodies that take their legitimacy into universal and direct suffrage. This is the moment when the President of the elected Republic presents himself in the House of Democracy and, before it, takes possession of and makes a declaration of commitment, in accession to the Constitution and to the ideals and principles enshrined there, thus initiating his mandate. It is a ceremony that must be as public as possible, allowing the people, in which sovereignty resides, to participate in the investment of their highest magistrate. The pandemic situation in which we are living unfortunately does not admit that this ceremony has the dimension it owes to it, as in previous times when, alongside the full of the 230 holders of this sovereignty body and the highest individualities of the Portuguese State, as well as the representatives of the Diplomatic Corps accredited in our country, the other citizens make it necessary to attend, filling the galleries of this Chamber of Sessions. The restricted format of the ceremony does not, however, remove solemnity, meaning or attentive audience. It is with emotion that the Assembly of the Republic meets today with the President of the Republic under the strength of the Constitution. Your Excellency, Ladies and gentlemen: the election for the President of the Republic and the previous campaign took place this year in a pandemic framework and were subject to the multiple restrictions arising from the state of emergency that we still live and that imposes on us all a civic duty of collection and added care. However, several candidates were given suffrage, patenting the greatest ideological diversity in similar acts, so far, and which I welcome here. Your Excellency shall, on a personal and on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, address a special greeting on the clear and expressive form of your election: at the first round and with a significant increase in votes against the result of 2016. It was an act that took place on the designated date, without any obstacles and no significant effect on the spread of the coronavirus, contrary to the most alarmist fears and confirming the need for recourse to circumstantial dossiers, which would be true back to democracy. It is, above all, in contexts of crisis or extraordinary circumstances, such as those we face, that we must be intransigent in the defence of democracy and demanding in the fulfilment of its rules and in respect for the fundamental rights which our Constitution enshrines. A word of recognition is also due here to the Portuguese and Portuguese who have exercised their right to vote, as well as to all who have made this electoral act possible. It was a lesson of citizenship that magnified Portuguese democracy. Your Excellency, Ladies and gentlemen : The five years of your mandate have been filled with remarkable moments. With the replacement of rights and guarantees that had been removed following the intervention of the troika and with the emptying of the social and even institutional tension that existed, Portugal entered a positive path, successfully overcoming the serious economic and financial crisis that had so far lived and even achieved the first budgetary surplus in democracy. Also, in international terms, the successes achieved in diplomatic, cultural and sports fronts were marked. in this particular, he could not fail to remember the election of António Guterres as Secretary-General of the United Nations, an election that was due to the many and diverse qualities of the candidate, but also to the prestige that we benefit as a people and as a Nation of universal matrix. [[P.S.P. and PS.D. Deputies Luís Marques Guedes.]] Portugal recovered prestige, became a reference and a preferred destination. And we took pride in being Portuguese again. To these successes was not the prestigious contribution of Your Excellency. In the course of these years, democratic elections have been held, as well as regional and local elections, as well as European elections, and in some cases the result of the reconfigurations of the political landscape, with the emergence of new partisan forces. Democracy has become more diverse and inclusive, with increased representativeness, revealing a Portugal with a full sense of freedom, without restrictions, without bites. Unfortunately, there have also been some particularly dramatic events that have tested our political and even ethical capacities, such as the devastating fires of 2017, which have reaped more than 100 lives and destroyed houses, businesses, jobs, with repercussions that are still felt today, or the COVID-19 pandemic that has been persistently and impiously affecting the entire population and all sectors of activity, with a strong social, economic and financial impact and, above all, with an irreparable cost in human lives, which last year amounted to 16 565. These catastrophes were, however, possible to avoid adding to a political crisis, which would have serious consequences not only at the internal level but also at the level of the external image of Portugal. The moderating role that you have played in both situations — under great pressure, stressed — has been crucial to ensure political stability and ensure the regular functioning of the institutions. Two permanent concerns that honor him and honor us. Your Excellency, Ladies and gentlemen: The fight against pandemic is, in the short term, our priority, as you called for in your intervention on the night of your re-election. Winning the pandemic is essential to restore normality to family and social life, return children and young people to school, resume economic activity, regain jobs and overcome the economic and social crisis — and culture, because without culture, we would not survive. However, the knowledge gained and the hope that the vaccine has come to give us a new encouragement and allow us to anticipate, in a not very distant future, unless the eradication of the virus, at least one end of many of the restrictions we currently live. This is a goal that is only achieved in a joint effort, as a community. I would like here to stress the contribution of the Assembly of the Republic in this fight, either by authorising successive state of emergency declarations — in response to your requests — or by monitoring the measures taken by the Government to avoid the consequences of the pandemic and by proposing additional or alternative measures. Despite the normal, and even desirable, divergences and the different policies advocated, there is a recognition by the vast majority of political agents of what is essential and of the historical responsibility that lies before us. I am therefore convinced that the Members, as holders of this sovereignty body, but also as protagonists of an essential service of the State, will know, as up to now, that they are in line with their obligations and the contribution that is required of them. Given the pandemic, it is imperative to take on the sustained repair of the damage caused by this crisis — in health, in the economy, in culture, in education, in society — and the elimination of structural weaknesses that persist and limit the country's development potential and that the pandemic becomes even more evident. To achieve this goal have been presented and approved, after public discussion, the instruments and structuring projects understood as fundamental. There are sometimes accusations that matters, proposals or projects are not discussed, but perhaps more relevant is the absence of practical consequences of the debates. A good example of this is the discussion about the location of the new airport in Lisbon, which has been 52 years and which becomes more difficult every year. There is a time when it is necessary to give the discussion by conclusion and to decide. That's what they expect from us. For this we were elected: to make decisions and to solve the problems that affect the country. The evaluation, this, will be done in the polls. What we have to ensure, and here the Assembly of the Republic will have an essential role, and to ensure the proper use of public money and European funds, that the planned recovery leaves no one behind and that more opportunities for social promotion are assured, without which there is no development. in this challenge, Portugal has the solidarity and contribution of the European Union, which has played a key role in the articulation and mobilization of the means necessary for a common European response to the outbreak of coronavirus not only in public health but also in reducing the devastating socio-economic impact of this pandemic. As a European country, we have acted in a concerted manner and with political initiative. Your Excellency, Ladies and gentlemen : Today, when Portugal again assures the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, I would like to thank all Members of Parliament who, in the Standing Committees, have ensured respect for the rights enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon to national parliaments and who have committed themselves, under such adverse conditions, to ensure that the actions we have proposed are carried out during the current semester. in these two months of Parliamentary dimension of the Portuguese Presidency, the Assembly of the Republic has received the visit of the College of Commissioners and has carried out several initiatives that I singularise, by its scope, two inter-parliamentary conferences: on stability and economic governance, organised with the European Parliament and its President ; and on the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the Common Security and Defence Policy. With different themes, the two conferences had a common purpose: thinking strategically of Europe. As the Treaty of Lisbon has well stated, national parliaments are actively contributing to the smooth functioning of the Union. International cooperation has always been an integral part of our democratic matrix and our foreign policy. in this case, it is even more fundamental. No country alone can overcome or overcome the consequences of the pandemic. As Pope Francis pointed out, in the face of a challenge that does not know borders, barriers cannot be raised. The walls of nationalism and populism are powerless to stop the pandemic. And how can we fail to take into account the call and warning made by Antonio Guterres, reiterated two weeks ago before our Members at a conference within the parliamentary dimension of our Presidency of the Council of the European Union, on the absolute need for everyone irrespective of where they live and their economic conditions, to have access to vaccination against COVID-19? We are faced with an ethical imperative of common good and a demand for public management, because, as the variants of the virus show, none of us will be safe while others struggle for life in conditions of economic misery, armed conflict or simply lack of access to public health. Let us not forget these words. Your Excellency, Ladies and gentlemen : Your Excellency has also stated, on the night of January 24, that your election is the demonstration of rejection of extremism by the Portuguese. I am sure that this is the case, and this is a matter that everyone should be concerned about and that requires action and a given answer. Organizations such as Freedom House warn us that democracy is under attack and that freedom in the world has been declining for 15 consecutive years, with fewer than one fifth of the world's population living in totally free countries. in this period, we witnessed the resurgence of movements and ideals of extreme right, with substantial gains even in Member States of the European Union of solid democratic traditions. A trend that concerns not only governments and security forces of democratic countries, but also international or religious organizations. in the words of the Secretary-General of the United Nations: "The movements of white supremacy and neo-Nazi are more than threats of internal terrorism—they become transnational threats that are growing every day. We need a global coordinated action to defeat this serious and growing danger." The universality of the principles and values in which free societies and the foundations of the international multilateral order built over decades are questioned. The roots of this phenomenon have fertile internal ground in political polarization; in various populisms; in inequalities that weaken social cohesion; in situations of corruption, which must fight with determination and effectiveness; in attacks on the rule of law; in xenophobia and racism, which deny equality, diversity and unity in dignity, intrinsic to each human being. They are accompanied by another dimension, this of an external nature: the promotion of authoritarianism and the demand for its supposed better capacity to respond to current problems, using manipulation and misinformation, enhanced by new technologies and their immediacy. Sometimes rising under the cover of national-populism or inorganic movements, radicalism and extremism are, unquestionably, dangers to democracy, with anti-systemic dichotomies, filled with false and impractical responses, without adherence to reality and with difficult relation to truth and facts. It is a phenomenon that exploits, opportunistic, the fears of the population and the difficulties that democratic governments have expressed in responding to their concerns, which disturbances such as the pandemic tend to accentuate. It is a phenomenon that takes advantage of the current remoteness of the population from institutions, political parties, associations or traditional trade unions, which often feel that they no longer represent it. It is a departure from politics itself. We cannot, therefore, loosen care in the face of signs of this danger. on the contrary, we must redouble our efforts to find solutions to the problems and aspirations of the population, in the sense of annulment. As politicians and citizens we are, we cannot let what appears to be a suicidal trend of some democracies affect us. We are all summoned to this battle, because it depends on our survival as a people and as a sovereign state. However, our concerns are not exhausted in these areas. Others deserve our best attention and we will certainly have the opportunity to act on them, such as climate change, the qualification of the population, the digital transition or the issue of migration and asylum, not to mention a fundamental issue, which is that of combating inequalities. The structural changes in Portugal are a historic necessity today. Your Excellency, Ladies and gentlemen : During your term of office today, the regime founded on 25 April will, in longevity, exceed the salazarist regime and celebrate its 50th. the anniversary. I am therefore pleased that Portugal, in the Presidency of the Republic, has a strong advocate of democracy and its principles, which respects pluralism and difference and which never gives up social justice. We must remember that this President was, and he is, a constituent. I am sure that the new mandate of your Excellency will be guided, as it has just ended, by the strictest and fairest respect for constitutional values and principles, and that it will maintain, with the Assembly of the Republic, the most cordial institutional relations, totally different from the principle of separation of powers and interdependence, always bearing in mind that it is in Parliament that the Portuguese society is represented, in its diversity and plurality. Finally, Mr President of the Republic, dear friend, I would like to renew the desire for greater happiness in the performance of his duties, with the certainty that he can count on the total institutional loyalty of the Assembly of the Republic and its President, by the Republic, by democracy, by Portugal. [[P.S., PSD and MP's applauded Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic will now speak in constitutional terms. You have the floor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-09.u6	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court of Justice, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Court of Auditors, Mrs. Presidents António Ramalho Eanes and Aníbal Cavaco Silva, Dr. Manuela Eanes, Mr. Ministers of State, Mr. President of the City Council of Lisbon, Mr. Nuncio Apostolic, representing the Diplomatic Corps, Mr. President of the Portuguese Episcopal Conference, Mr. Attorney General of the Republic, Mr. Chief of the Staff of the Armed Forces Staff, Mrs. Ombudsman, Mrs. Chiefs of the three branches of the Armed Forces, Mr. President of the CDS-PP, Mrs. Presidential candidates, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portuguese, today, as five years ago, Portugal is the only reason for being the solemn commitment I have just taken. To say Portugal is to say the Portuguese, because a homeland is much more than the place where we are born and reborn, the memory of what we do, we undo and redo, the uses we receive and pass on to our children and grandchildren, the institutions that shape us and help shape us. A homeland is, above all, people and, in it, each person counts, different, different, unrepeatable. Portugal is the Portuguese. They are, therefore, the Portuguese, all of them, the only reason to be of the solemn commitment I have just assumed, to begin with those most in need: the homeless; the homeless, but without condividing housing; those of my age, or more, who live in homes or at home, in loneliness, or veiled by formal or informal caregivers; the pensioners and poor pensioners; the unemployed and workers in layoff; the workers and precarious entrepreneurs; the children, young people, the families, the teachers and the non-teachers, run by two school years; those who save lives and health; those who help them to save; those who lose their lives and health; those who lose loved ones, without a lay-off, in sickness and death; those who leave us, wishing to return; those who, in us, welcome and stay; and more who—and they are all—are, near or far away, at the Diaspora, in Madeira, in the steel, in Portugal, in the America, in the America, in the America, in the America, in the America, in the America, and in the America. Portuguese, on March 9, 2016, Portugal had already experienced the outcome of a difficult financial, economic and social crisis, but the division between those who had been angry with the Government in crisis and those who had opposed it was total, in ideas, in politics, in legitimacy to be able, in emotions. Europe, free from the shadow of the banking crisis, promised growth and employment and hoped that Portugal would not change its course in the balance of the Budget. The world, driven by the ideals of climate action, energy change, freedom of trade and multilateralism, believed that it was time to cross borders, look forward to migration and refugees, to promote human rights, peace and sustainable development. More dreams and less fears. What happened later, I know - we all know: the world was another, different from then expected, with economic growth, but with less climate action, less multilateralism, less tolerance in relation to migration and refugees, more trade war, more xenophobia. More fears, less dreams. Europe, shaken by the way out of the United Kingdom, has nevertheless been resisting and reinventing itself, sometimes only in itself, breaking up here and there more afraid and defining, from time to time, more dreams. Portugal continued the path of balanced public accounts. Do so, accelerating social compensation and strengthening the public sector, which, being the programme of the new rulers, was opposed to the direction of their predecessors. It would emerge from the excessive deficit process on 16 June 2017, after having faced critical situations in the bank and on the eve of living the first of the two wave of the forest fire tragedy. I would take important steps in budgetary balance, in internationalisation, in the digital area, in exports, in tourism, in innovation and in some agricultural change, knowing, in several areas, how to take advantage of earlier paths. It would gently alleviate poverty and some social inequalities. It would strengthen its prestige and external protagonistism—in the United Nations, in the Eurogroup, in the International Organization for Migration, in the National Highlighted Forces, in solidarity missions, as in Mozambique, in Culture, in Science and Sport. I would, however, delaying deeper investments or transformations in business competitiveness, infrastructure, public administration, the National Health Service and, in part, in justice. At the entry of 2020, the world and Europe expected other cycles, depending on their defined or assumed leadership in the year ended. Portugal, with a budgetary surplus and again in economic convergence with Europe, hoped to face years of lasting growth, in a still very different political environment from that of 2016, more fragmented and more complex, knowing the arrival of the new system of political and social forces announced since spring 2018. Where the economy allowed for more favourable times, politics suggested less predictable times. It was then that, a year ago, among us, the pandemic began that it would no longer strike everything and all. A demolition year for life and health, for employment and income, for plans and achievements, for communities, for families, for people, for each one of us. The pandemic in life and health joined the pandemic in the economy and in society. Heroism is no longer something for an instant and has become a year, almost endless, more difficult, more stoic, more valuable. That is why the indignation of those sacrificed by the two pandemics is just. But it is also partly unfair for the recrimination made to everything that has not been anticipated, has not been avoided and has not been resolved. in some cases, it was possible, in others, it would not be. Tricks by pandemics have the right to see the power that exists at the same time as a saving table and as a wall of their legitimate regrets. Those responsible during the pandemics can only assume everything — as much as possible and as impossible — knowing that nothing and no one can give, to those who have lost the irreparable, which has no price or return. Portuguese, none of us here on March 9, 2016 will have anticipated what is today on March 9, 2021, neither the confinement out there, nor the distance inside, nor hope—in spite of everything—renewed and unbeatable for a better future. for the first time in democracy, a President of the Republic takes possession during a state of emergency, before an Assembly of the Republic that has never ceased to function, at the service of the Portuguese. And for this determination, I would like to thank you, Mr President, Mr VV. Ex., ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the example of dedication to democracy, never accepting silence, never accepting to suspend it, never accepting it as hostage. May this be the first lesson of today. We live in democracy, we want to continue to live in democracy and, in democracy, to fight the most serious pandemics. We preferred freedom to oppression, dialogue to monologue, pluralism to censorship, and demonstrated that by holding two pandemic elections, one of which resulted in the rise of opposition to the government. This is democracy. But we also want better democracy, where freedom is not emptied by poverty, ignorance, dependence or corruption; where inclusion, tolerance and respect by all Portuguese people—in addition to gender, creed, skin color, personal, political and social convictions—is not sacrificed to the myth of pure Portuguese, lit caste, of the old and new privileged. We want a democracy that is ethical and republican in the limitation of mandates; convergence in the regime and clear alternative in governance; stability without swamp; justice with security; renewal that avoids rupture; anticipation that prevents decay; proximity that makes it impossible to dazzle, arrogance and abuse of power. Make sure that this is the first priority of the President of the Republic for these five years. The second lesson of this state of emergency possession is even more evident than the first: we live in a health pandemic. And as for this pandemic, which has radically changed our lives, we all know what we want: we want to shorten it and not lengthen it; stop the number of our dead; reduce the contamination; expand the vaccination, testing and screening, prevent new exhaustion of the health structures and their heroes. We want to defuse with wisdom and success, reduce fear, strengthen confidence, recover delays in non-COVID patients, stabilize the National Health Service, allow lasting reconstruction of people's lives. This is the second priority — and the most immediate — of the President of the Republic for the coming months, in the spirit of the widest possible unity, in a time of inevitable fatigue and anxiety. The third priority mission of the President of the Republic covers not only 2021, but also the following years. During this time, inevitably longer, we will have to rebuild people's lives, which is everything or almost everything — employment, income, businesses, but also mental health, social ties, experiences and dreams. It is more, much more than recovering, i.e. returning to 2019 or February 2020. And that's the third lesson this year. To that end, we want to maintain and improve measures for the immediate survival of the social fabric and economic fabric and its fastest reconstruction. How do we want to use European funds? With strategic clarity, good management, transparency and effectiveness, social resilience, qualification, energy transition, digital. But never forgetting what the pandemic has unleashed from fundamental problems—of economic competitiveness, health, social solidarity, of its articulation—or that it has invited to revisit: administrative reform, justice and fight against corruption, the role of the Armed Forces, security forces, civil protection, firefighters, decentralisation — whatever the Portuguese want —, institutions of social solidarity, association movements, forms of work. However, there will be true reconstruction only if poverty is reduced, if the foci of extreme food shortage disappear, if the inequalities collapse, if the exclusion decrease, if the cleavage between generations and between territories is overcome. Social cohesion is the fourth priority mission of the President of the Republic. The pandemic highlighted the existence of several Portuguese, increasingly distant from each other, all of them within the same Portugal. It is urgent to rebuild only one Portugal. We want more growth and for that we want investments, exports and the internal market. However, we want more than that: policies that correct what freedom, competition and the market itself, do not allow them to correct and which has dramatically worsened with the pandemic. Rebuilding the lives of people without economic growth is impossible, but reconstructing it only with the economy, without correcting existing inequalities, is rebuilding less for everyone, because, above all, for some privileged people. One last lesson of the months we have gone through is that there are no islands in the universe and that we, Portugal, are all but an island. Luxembourg, European integration, transatlantic relations, Euro-African narrowing, Ibero-american, openness to the East, more solidarity, multilateralism, valorisation of international organizations, continued commitment to the so-called new borders, and the oceans are - always for us - the appeal for the future, against the fear of the different, the different, the complementary. The fifth mission of the President of the Republic is to deepen our vocation for platform between cultures, civilizations, oceans and continents— symbolized by the election and by the desirable re-election of Antonio Guterres and by opening up all the Azimuths of the Portuguese Presidency to the Council of the European Union—to affirm the national unity with the healthy specificity of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, to facilitate the participation of our Portuguese-building Diaspora outside the physical territory, but within the spiritual territory, which is ours, to value our foreign and defence policies and our Armed Forces. It is basically to affirm an ever-renewed patriotism. A patriotism of people and not only of the place, of memory, of uses, of institutions, a patriotism of the future, which the younger assume as no one, against winds and tides, against pandemics in life and health, in the economy and in society. That's why they, young people, are in a hurry. Press to see Portugal fairer, more competitive, more intergenerational. They are not satisfied with the five national and presidential missions for the next five years or only with promises of response to their anxieties in education, employment, housing, life project. They wait longer and faster, for them and for all the Portuguese. From now on, in an unequal and aged Portugal, they expect more and better National Health Service, the key piece of our social democracy. in a little competitive Portugal, they expect more and better conditions for companies to use European funds in full, attract investment and successfully face external competition inside and outside. in an accelerated world, they expect even more and better Portuguese leadership in the fight for climate action. Three specific causes, regardless of labels, are all national and urgent. Portuguese, you have to remember the obvious. I've been the same for five years. I am the same yesterday, in the same exact terms, elected and re-elected to be President of all of you, with independence, spirit of commitment and stability, closeness, affection, preference for the excluded, honesty, convergence essentially, alternative between two strong areas supported and credible, rejection of presidential messianisms — in the exercise of power or in the advance nostalgia of the end of this exercise — respect for the difference and pluralism in the construction of social justice, pride of being Portugal, of being Portuguese. That is how it will be with any parliamentary majority, with any government, before and after the elections, before and after the parliamentary elections, before and after the European elections, before and after the 50 years of April 25 in 2024. That the next five years may be more reason for hope than for disappointment is our dream and our purpose. A year has passed over so much mourning, so much sacrifice, so much loneliness. We have to believe it. Let's believe it. As Sophia of Mello Breyner wrote: « Despite the ruins and death, / Where every illusion has always ended, / The strength of my dreams is so strong, / That of all the reborn exaltation/ And never my hands are empty. Do not keep on seeking. ” Our hands will never be empty! [[On foot, the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the members of the government, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH, the IL and the MP did not register Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-09.u7	The session is closed. [[It was 11 hours and 25 minutes.]]
