ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government present, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Before we start our work, Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo will do the favor of giving the House some information.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. I greet all and all. I must realise that the authors of the initiatives have withdrawn the Constitutional Review Projects Nos 4 and 6 / XIV / 2. a ( CH). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u3	We will begin the first item on our agenda, which consists of an urgent debate required by the NAP under Article 72. the Regimento, on illegal immigration, networks of trafficking in persons, labour slavery, overcrowding and unhealthy housing of agricultural workers in the city of Odemira and consequent risk to public health, as well as on the problem of environmental caricing affects the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina. Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the Parliamentary Group of the NAP, has the floor to speak for the opening intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : In recent days, the country has been eyes on Odemira, but this is not a recent reality, nor for which the government has not been alerted in recent years. Even last Thursday, the NAP questioned the Presidency Minister on complaints about the working conditions of immigrants in Beja and Ferreira do Alentejo on intensive agricultural holdings. We learned that the government is aware that agriculture in Portugal lives with a lot of work as migrants and, in view of the reality in Lower Alentejo, it informed us that it would relocate the High Commissioner for Migration to Beja. On the reality of workers in intensive agriculture, the Government told us nothing more in this debate. But, a few moments later, the Prime Minister informed that two Fregueses in Odemira would have a clear health environment associated with the migrant population working in the agricultural sector, as a result of the health conditions in which they live, which Mr Prime Minister considered, and well, "a gross violation of human rights". Better late than ever — runs the year of 2021. In 2017, the slave report of the river, about peas catchers in the Tejo, who were also harvesters of fruit on the vicentina coast, warned that at least since 2014 we have traffic networks for labour exploitation in Portugal and since 2007 for sexual exploitation, but we continue without the necessary means to prevent and combat this scourge in our country. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is too serious a matter for us to get into denial that there is no trafficking in human beings, that there is no aid for illegal immigration, that there is no document fraud, finally, a panoply of related crimes. Of course, Odemira alerts us to other areas of the country, nothing that RASI ( Annual Internal Security Report ) would no longer indicate and that the SEF ( Foreign and Border Service ) had not pointed out, but this case has come to bring more attention to this scourge of trafficking, which is not just a summary of agriculture. Only since 2015, in the Alentejo, the SEF has investigated and followed up 82 cases of illegal labour placement, aid to illegal immigration, slavery, trafficking in persons for labour exploitation and trafficking in minors. This is not the time to take the proceedings that were already taking place in the SEF to another criminal police body. The government should provide for transitional rules that would allow investigations to come to an end without losing evidence, because more important than the ego of the Minister of Internal Administration is saving lives. This must be the mission of this House and of the Government. It is more than time to invest in strong awareness campaigns to de-occulty and train society, in order to identify the signs inherent to these crimes and that these campaigns come to the victims themselves. Moreover, we know that trafficking in human beings has three stages: recruitment of vulnerable people, aid for illegal immigration, and finally organised network exploitation itself. We remember that in the State budget, the NAP has been guaranteed and approved the development of the next strategy to combat trafficking in human beings. It is essential that multidisciplinary teams, means of research and instruction be strengthened to ensure the speed of proceedings from investigation to court. What we want to know today is whether there will be an integrated plan to listen to all these people. It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the issues of the absence of illegality do not convince us. We know that by having more humanitarian laws, and well, these people will have to be in the process of regulating their situation in order to be considered regular. So it is not irregularities that we want to hear the government speak. The fact that a person is regular does not mean that he is not being exploited or being a victim of any crime. We want to hear the government talk about lives and safeguarding human rights, we want to be assured that the government will fight this scourge and not "rock the water from the hood" or play the game of pushing between ministries. We want to hear the Government talk about the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 179/ 2019, which allowed these small and segregated accommodations. How many supervisory actions have the government promoted to these accommodations since then? And what conclusions did they draw? These companies, set up at the time, to collect people from other nationalities for these works, which work from sun to sun, must have faces, must have responsibility. So we want to know the following: will the government allow these time-consuming, transnationally articulated, temporary and time-consuming enterprises to continue to reign and make these territories into a real ‘man’s land’? Alongside humanitarian issues, the environmental dimension is added, with environmental impacts being seen in contrast to the fight against climate change, due to intensive agricultural activity, which has advanced in a completely unbalanced way. Will the government separate the wheat from the juicy where farmers are concerned? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good agricultural practices must be encouraged and followed. How many inspections were conducted to measure environmental impacts? When will the Government respond to the 2017 IGAMAOT report ( General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and Land Planning ) and ensure the necessary means for these inspections? We have a hydro-agricultural instrument that has not been able to adapt to the natural park plan, we have a water perimeter that overlaps the natural park. And this is not about demonising the agricultural sector, but on the contrary, it is about requiring rules, it is about demanding that cumulative environmental impacts be assessed and, therefore, we hope that other parties will be available to review the legal regime of environmental impact assessment, whose discussion the NAP has already scheduled for May 28th. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a problem that has an immediate solution or that is resolved in a week, it is a problem that has been dragging itself, yes, for too long. And it was necessary for COVID-19 and the controversy around the way civil demand was processed to put the country of eyes in Odemira. With regard to environmental issues and the agricultural transition, will we finally hear the Government say who is part of the Mira Working Group and when are its conclusions?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u5	I appreciate your conclusion, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u6	I shall conclude, Madam President. Are we going to hear the government talk today about the natural park planning plan? Are we going to hear the government talk today about a licensing regime for agricultural activity? Will we today hear the government talk about the territorial management plan within the special conservation zone? Will we today finally hear to present the first lights of an integrated programme to respond to this multifactorial problem, with the intervention of various ministries?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u7	For an intervention, Mrs Maria do Céu Antunes has the floor of the Minister for Agriculture, whom I welcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u8	Madam President, I welcome you, as well as all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by saying that that Odemira territory which is currently under the holophotos represents an asset for our country that is not, at all, negligible. In 2020 it represented about 200 million euros of our exports. I remember that in 2011 it represented EUR 48 million, which represents 15 % of national exports of vegetables and fruit. This sector, in particular fruit and vegetables, represents 50 % of gross added value in that municipality. But these values inevitably combine with what concerns environmental values and social values. In fact, the Mira Working Group has worked over the past year...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u9	What did you do?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u10	... in particular to promote the licensing of the 229 containers that exist there, where there are no public health problems at present, compatibility environmental values with the values of agricultural activity, seeking to promote the rehabilitation of the water perimeter. For this purpose, there are two ongoing applications: one, to make this rehabilitation of the water perimeter and another, for the authorities to apply to draw up a proposal for an integrated solution...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u12	... in relation to housing, public services, infrastructure and equipment necessary to give dignity to the resident community and the migrant community, and it is also essential—and that is what the group is doing—to define the ecological structure. But, ladies and gentlemen, at present there is an urgent and ongoing response: stop the pandemic in that territory. Next, we need to work in the short time to have the ability to install, even provisionally, those citizens who are in unconditional housing within the population agglomerates. And then we need to define a medium- and long-term strategy that can create conditions of human dignity, which we know does not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u13	They don't exist because they didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u14	And we already know that for some time now, because there is a resolution by the Council of Ministers at that time. I conclude by recognizing, today, also, the work of agricultural companies throughout the national territory, as well as in that territory, because, despite all the difficulties we are having in this pandemic context, it is the companies themselves who have created conditions to ensure that nothing is lacking in our tables, testing, creating conditions for their workers to perform their work. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have no doubt: we must work together, we must all be on the side of the solutions and, therefore, we need to join the Government in implementing urgent public health solutions and those that are necessary to promote agriculture as an active part of our economy, with respect for the environment and human dignity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u15	For an intervention, Mrs Filipa Roseta of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u16	Madam President, Minister for Internal Administration, Minister for Agriculture, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: Madam Minister, I will try to remain calm, but objectively it will be very difficult. It will be very difficult, Minister! [[PS laughter.]] We all know what's going on in Odemira for more than two years!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u17	There's nine!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u18	We all know that, over two years ago, there are serious human rights violations in Odemira. We all know! In 2019, the PSD asked the government a question and proposed a solution over a year ago, in January 2020. What's the solution? Point one: the government has to strengthen public services, it has to strengthen supervision, it has to strengthen health, it has to strengthen education, it has to strengthen finances, it has to strengthen social security since the population is growing exponentially since 2018, Mrs Minister! Since 2018, Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u19	Since 2012!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u20	Point two: the President of the Odemira Chamber has to draw the urban solution. It's unacceptable what's going on! Odemira has already had over 40,000 inhabitants! There's no reason for what we're watching. The government failed, the President of the House failed, and the state resigned from acting in front of what was a serious violation of human rights—he resigned!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u22	The government has resigned, the House has resigned! They resigned! We have identified two guilty: the government and the President of the House of Odemira. A government that seeks, on the other hand, to go to a place like this to put people against people, farmers against tourism, entrepreneurs against citizens, people against people, a government that goes to a place to spread controversy, so that people feel offended when many, the perfect majority, are entrepreneurs who are doing everything within legality, is a government that is part of the problem, that is not part of the solution. A camera president who goes to the television saying that the fault of the entrepreneurs is a president who is part of the problem, is not part of the solution, and we need solutions. The solution is clear, that is what we said in January 2020. Mrs. Minister, I've already said, but I'm going to repeat again: you guys were here and even approved our resolution... [[PS protests.]] In fact, it has been adopted unanimously, i.e. by all the parliamentary groups that make up Parliament. So in summary, this Parliament and all the parliamentary groups were well, but I wanted to leave here three facts which are very ignored in this debate. First of all, entrepreneurs have been going to this House for more than two years to ask for solutions. Entrepreneurs addressed the minister in 2017 with the solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u23	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u24	They're worried. Entrepreneurs contacted the Catholic University to do a study, because they had no data. This is the country where we live. The government does not exist, it did not exist, it was absent. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u25	Secondly, it is important for everyone to remember: overcrowding in Portugal has been prohibited since 1951. No more than two adults per room are allowed in a housing situation. Since 1951 you are not allowed to stay another month...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u26	But it says it's since 2018!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u27	They were so concerned about staying in the history of housing policies that they became the greatest retreat that there is memory in the two centuries of housing policies in our country. This is the greatest step back that there is memory in the two centuries of housing policies in our country, allowing conditions that have not been allowed since 1951 for public health reasons. This is your legacy in housing policies. And record the absence, here, of the Minister of Housing, who always thought this was not with him.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u29	I well see the absence of the Minister of Housing. [[PSD applause.]] The integrated solution, combining environment and agriculture, is possible the integrated solution tourism, environment, agriculture. Odemira is the largest municipality in the country, there is room for everyone. What do you need? You need to sit down and draw the solution. What are they doing there? We have a government that is part of the problem, not part of the solution. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u30	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin with two previous notes, the first to mention that we were surprised to see that the Minister, in her initial speech, did not have a single reference word for migrant agricultural workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u33	The second note is to tell the PSD that he talks as if he had no responsibilities in the matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u34	You don't! This government has been there for six years! Six years!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u35	Mrs. Deputy, the world existed before 2015! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u36	Mrs. Members of the PSD bench asked them to create conditions for the Member to express himself.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u37	Unfortunately, it seems that we had to be confronted with the COVID-19 so that the government would look at the situation in the Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina Natural Park and the problems that persist in that region of the country. And they persist despite the warnings and complaints that have long been made by the Greens, who, after visiting the site, have repeatedly confronted the Government with the matter, both in the plenary and in the Commission, through written questions, and which has led us to present a legislative initiative on the subject, which will be discussed shortly in conjunction with the petition that alerts the fact that the Natural Park does not endure more intensive agriculture. But the problem of intensive agriculture and the proliferation of plastics that invades the Natural Park, which is very serious and which also requires answers, is only part of the problem. Today it became clear to all, and above all to the Government, that it is necessary to look at the thousands and thousands of agricultural workers who are victims of illegal immigration networks, trafficking in persons, even having strong suspicions of slavery. It is a reality that did not arise with the COVID-19, which did not arise now. It is, moreover, as old as old is the passivity of this and other governments.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u38	Zero! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u39	And what do we have today? In addition to open-air plastic dumps, we have agricultural entrepreneurs resorting to service delivery companies, many of them feeding and boosting networks that use the lack of ethics to generate new forms of slavery. In fact, human rights violations are not limited only to the way workers are treated and exploited, but also due to the absence of minimum living conditions, which certainly stems from the rates of transmission of the virus in that region of the country. Moreover, as Helena Roseta very well called, in an article published in 2019, Odemira containers represent « the institutionalization of a kind of refugee camp for foreign agricultural workers in the Alentejo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u40	Tell that to the Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u41	In this regard, it should be recalled a decision of the City Assembly of Odemira in 2019, which expressed concern that the Government had chosen, in full Natural Park, to increase from 30 % to 40 % the area of covered structures to be occupied by tunnels, high tunnels and stoves. In the view of the municipality of Odemira, it is an option that results in a situation different from that which was defended by a large majority within the Mira Working Group. However, the municipality of Odemira also expressed concern that a global ceiling for the placement of agricultural workers in temporary agglomerations has not been set. In fact, the Government has defined employment values far superior to those proposed by both authorities and public authorities, responding once again only to the demands of entrepreneurs and agricultural associations and not to a balanced solution for the good of the management and conservation of the territory. Mr. Minister, it is not The Greens who say so, who clearly says so, it is the Municipal Assembly of Odemira, which, as we know, is a PS authority, even though this motion was unanimously approved in 2019. The resolution of the Council of Ministers No 179/ 2019, which, in fact, both the municipality of Aljezur and the municipality of Odemira, has already been concluded, calls for immediate suspension. Mr Minister, I begin by asking you whether the Government is considering amending that resolution or whether, after the outbreak, everything remains the same. Finally, Mrs. Minister, I will not ask you if you think Odemira would be a good place to hold the European Social Summit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u42	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u43	... but I ask you what reasons justify such long-term passivity in the face of the gravity of the situation in that region of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u44	Mr Pedro do Carmo, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We live in difficult, very difficult times. The situation in the municipality of Odemira, which sees two of its parish with a sanitary environment, is a situation evidenced by the pandemic crisis, because it was detected an outbreak of COVID-19 that presented some gravity. It was therefore urgent to act to break the contagion chain. The government had to act quickly, which it did. In fact, situations like this had already occurred in other places, at other times, and had similar treatment. At the same time, situations are detected with very vulnerable, unprotected people, situations that I consider – we consider – intolerable and unacceptable in Portugal today. The PS condemns all these behaviors that violate and that do not respect human rights and dignity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are therefore faced with a police case, and we ask this one to act firmly, swiftly and without contemplation. This, yes, is the essential thing that is being discussed here. It is wrong, therefore, to come here to diabolize agriculture, it is wrong to want to find any fault of everything, it is wrong to want to leverage with this situation an environmental fundamentalism as a solution to all this problem. More: it is wrong to say that no one did anything when no one was all of us. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u46	Not all of us!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u47	Not because we didn't, but because we didn't do everything we should. Example of this, Mrs. Members, it is just that all parliamentary groups and many party leaders have visited that territory several times, even existing — no matter how much! — Registration of permanent parliamentary committees of this House which visited that territory in 2009. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] I therefore recall in this regard the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 179/ 2019, which, being not perfect, we have already found here that it is not; the municipal chamber itself, the municipal assembly and other stakeholders have tabled amendments — it is a resolution that identifies the problems and presents solutions, involving all the actors. It proves this, too, that the Authority has many good examples of continuous work to help change things in that territory. You're here, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, what I ask for is good sense, it is more respect for Odemira, for the odemians, whether they are natural or not of the council. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Odemira, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you have everything! It has sun, it has sea, it has nature and environmental tourism which is world reference. Don't help destroy him! It has agriculture, good farmers and very good products. It has an excellent tourist offer, supported by a gastronomic tradition of excellence. There are extraordinary people, who are having a bad time, and that's why we can't throw everything away. We take advantage of this moment to, in collaboration with the government, with the entities... We demand the government to speed up the testing and vaccination process and support new solutions that we have to build for the people who live and work in Odemira, relaunching the economy so that we will all now win. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u48	For an intervention, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The outbreak in Odemira that we are analyzing exposed the outraged conditions in which migrant people live in agriculture in the Alentejo. The country, which was distracted with this situation,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ... agreed on the extent of exploitation and on the human rights to which these people are subject. The country was, yes, distracted, because we asked these questions a long time ago,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u50	So are we!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u51	... making very varied recommendations, and nothing was done. This is not new, and you know that this is not new.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u52	Who's distracted is the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u53	What happened in Odemira is the tip of the iceberg of what is happening in the Ribatejo, what is happening in the West, what is happening in other parts of the country. This happens in all areas where, few, those who exploit agriculture have farming units and want to earn a lot at the expense of low wages, at the cost of exploitation of workers,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u54	... subcontracting those who hire the workers, and they do not often receive their salary. That's what's happening, that's what we have to pay attention to. This information has already been brought to us very many times by environmental organisations.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u55	Talk to the government! Talk to the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u56	The Left Block associated itself with these concerns, asked numerous questions and made numerous proposals. Migrant people's defence organisations also reported, warned about this situation, drew attention to the conditions in which people live. And why did this happen? This happened because in the greenhouses that proliferate in this region the production of intensive agriculture destroys ecological resources, destroys social tissue and also destroys social cohesion, because, by failing to respond adequately to the living conditions of migrant people, it can encourage or promote or do nothing about the growth of xenophobic and racist reactions to migrant people. So you need to look at the conditions in which these people work. Long before the pandemic there were reports of overcrowded houses, long before the pandemic we knew that people paid hundreds of euros for unhealthy, degraded homes where they lived piled up. The Left Block and migrant people's defence organizations warned about this situation before the pandemic, but also alerted when the pandemic was installed. This was because the conditions were conducive to posing contagions among the people living under those conditions and therefore created a risk situation to which it was necessary to respond. The government did nothing, the government did not look at or respond to the conditions under which these workers were. We questioned the government, we questioned the Chambers of Odemira and Aljezur about the measures they had to improve the living conditions of the workers in confinement and we have not yet obtained an answer. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u57	The generality of the agricultural companies operating in the Mira Rega Perimeter, in order to respond to housing shortage, chose to accommodate workers in containers installed on agricultural holdings. This precarious housing solution has been regulated by the Government. The government has regulated, accepted and legalized illegality. Illegal dwellings for foreign people was what the Government accepted in the resolution of the Council of Ministers of 2019, normalizing and allowing the exploitation of foreign people, insulating them from the social fabric of the nearest localities, denying them dignified housing conditions and making their access to urban space, transport and public services difficult. The Left Block believes that this resolution should be repealed and applied a moratorium on the installation and expansion of agricultural holdings in the Mira River Perimeter, until there are adequate environmental and social solutions, as recommended by the Government in a draft resolution presented in the previous Parliament. This is now a very high priority because, if it was already important to resolve the housing conditions of these workers, it is now necessary to review the agricultural production methods. We cannot continue to encourage the production of intensive agriculture, nor can we continue to give public money to those who exploit workers, house workers under angry conditions and also promote the destruction of fundamental ecological resources. The solution for this lack of housing is only to increase the number of containers, not to regulate the containers nor to create ghettos and promote the overload of the coast. The priority should be housing worthy of all people, spread by urban mesh and without recourse to villages of containers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u58	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u59	Another issue that is important here is the condition of these people in the country. Many of these people are in an irregular situation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u60	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u61	... which has been extended for several years and needs to be corrected. We need the extraordinary regularization of all these people so that they do not become vulnerable to the mafia and can defend their rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u62	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Given that we are faced with a situation in which the dignity of human life is at stake, the issue of the debate deserves seriousness and honesty and that the causes are identified and, of course, solutions are pointed out. We have listened to the Minister carefully and are in a situation where we have to respond to the question of public health. Considering the shortcomings and failures of the Government in the response, and even taking into account the demands that the CFP has always done in what it has to do with the need for screening, testing, vaccination, it is natural that we are faced with a situation that, in terms of public health, cannot be neglected in any way. But this cannot prevent the debate on the root causes from taking place, in order to identify and combat what originated and led to this situation. The economic model underlying the situation that led to a very large level of inhumanity of these workers is a cause, but it does not happen alone and exclusively in Odemira. Odemira is the ‘eye of the hurricane’, but there are many other situations covering other regions, other territories, other areas and sectors of the economy, as well as other workers, which need to be answered. The situation has authors and has accomplices and it is necessary to identify them. We hear here today Mrs. Filipa Roseta say and want to make her believe that the PSD has no responsibilities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u64	You don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u65	... with a lack of memory and absolute amnesia,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u66	You don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u67	... clearly the PSD has responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u68	You don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u69	The PSD was government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u70	You don't! You don't! You don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u71	... the PSD cannot only criticize and must assume its responsibilities, because in 2012 when the PSD was in government, the CFP raised questions to the Government and, Mrs Deputy, identified one of them as a problem of humanitarian contours and illegal exploitation of labour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u72	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u73	That is what we said in 2012, Mrs Deputy, but the CFP initiative did not remain unique and exclusively for questioning. We have been with the populations in 2011, meeting with the populations in the lives of the populations, identified the problems associated with the exploitation of agricultural work and we have been presenting solutions, particularly with regard to illegal work, labour intermediation and precariousness. And at that time, during the years 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, the government « pau mandado » of the PSD... [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] ... he was absolutely focused on increasing precariousness, disresponsibility and, above all, on disrupting labour relations. But the PS and the PS government cannot stand outside,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u74	... because if we had a PSD government, we had two PS governments, which must also assume their responsibilities. Which is not admissible, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, you are now pretending to be surprised. This is what we cannot accept, and this is what the population does not accept either. in this sense, what is required is to fight this inaction, an inaction that has authors, who are the great explorers and who are also the authors of the situation that is placed here, and that we cannot fail to point out, because we cannot allow the business of the apartment network to prevail over the value of human life. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also tell you that there is necessarily a need to point out solutions, and that is the challenge we have addressed to the government, which should have already done so. We therefore ask: is the Government available to implement the proposals presented by the CFP, in particular the clearance of the responsibilities, possibly criminal, of whom it has taken advantage of — and this is important — but also of whom it has been complicit? It is necessary to monitor, identify all situations of labour exploitation, all situations of indignity accommodation, but also to respond to the needs of public services, not only of these workers, but of the entire population of the Odemira municipality. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u75	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : In the speech of the Minister for Agriculture, there was neither a word on human rights nor responsibility for the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 179/ 2019, which does not comply with our Housing Bases Act, which does not comply with what is stated in our Constitution. No family can and can live under these conditions. We're talking about dwellings shared by 16 people, with 7 m2 per person. Therefore, the Government still has to explain what it will do in relation to this resolution of the Council of Ministers, which is nothing more than a reflection of programme 1. the law in Portugal continues on the paper. Indeed, it remains a privilege to have access to decent housing and, of course, it is reflected in our policies of migration and integration of migrant people. The resolution itself of the Council of Ministers contributes to real segregation: these people must be set up, contented, 1 km from urban agglomerations. We hope that the Minister of Internal Administration will indeed be able to say what integration policies these are. The Minister spoke of an integrated plan and today we have two ministers, but we hope that this integrated plan will go beyond these two ministries. The Minister continues not to separate the wheat from the juicy in terms of agriculture and farmers, and this is indeed a lack of respect for the farmers who do well and have good practices that must be followed. We are talking about agricultural practices that have blood in their hands, we are talking about agricultural practices that leave behind a trace of environmental destruction and, therefore, of course, we would like to hear from the government about it. In reply to Mr Pedro do Carmo, to respect the people of Odemira is to guarantee them access to housing, it is to guarantee them access to health, access to work and the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u77	That's what we're doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u78	It's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u79	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u80	That's not what you're doing, sir! They are letting agricultural holdings advance, without a king or a rock, without regulation, to let everything go and then we can see, without even thinking, what it is to hypothesize the present and future of our children and young people, also in this region. It is clear that the vision of the Minister of Agriculture, in what his policies are, was stopped in the 20th century. And this, at a time when eating habits are transformed, where there is or should be another environmental awareness. But the Minister has already come here to tell us that, in her hair, everything is fine. As a result of what is a bad sea of greenhouse plastics, I remember that in 2019 there were 1335 ha of plastic-covered structures, at the level of areas of intensive and superintensive crops, a little across the Alentejo, degrading landscapes, ecosystems and biodiversity, and an abusive use of water resources. And you won't have to be a hydrology specialist to know that the water means won't reach the populations. Therefore, it is important that the government is actually available to answer all the questions that we raised in our initial intervention and which were left unanswered.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u81	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, it is true that the problem did not start in 2015, nor did the world, but it did not start yesterday either. It was two years ago that the government authorized 300 containers in Odemira for these people to live. It was not the PSD that authorized, neither the CDS, nor the Arrival, nor the Liberal Initiative, it was the Socialist Party that authorized, and authorized with all complicity their left-wing partners, who now look to the side and say « we have nothing to do with this ». [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] I see in this House a very great concern, very great and fair, legitimate, with the migrants we have to care for. So what about the populations of those lands? And the owners of houses who, during the night, see themselves as expropriated by a government that does not comply with the law? No one cares about them? We are concerned, and well, unique and exclusively with people who come from India, Nepal, Pakistan and Afghanistan, but we are not concerned about who was born on our land and who has houses, properties and works in our lands. Mr. Pedro do Carmo said this was a police case. No one is better than the Minister of Internal Administration to clarify where the police have been during this time, when he had to monitor. There's the man! You are here who can respond to this situation! By the way, let me tell you...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u83	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u84	I will finish, Madam President. Let me tell you that this Minister is responsible for the Bartonary of the Order of Lawyers and a lawyer could not have entered the Zmar, having been disallowed by the President of the Republic with a telephone call.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u85	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u86	I'm really going to finish, Madam President. Mr Minister, I just wanted to tell you that I think it is time to leave because there are so many disauthorizations that I think it is time to resign from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u87	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by registering that this matter would, perhaps, justify less parliamentary chicana and perhaps even less partisan. I would like to say that the decision of a request, in my opinion disproportionate and absurd, whose question is whether it has been made deliberately or, once again, by mere incompetence, because it has not been noticed that half of the houses were private, started by drawing attention to this matter. A request that would appear to be the greatest attack on private property in the Alentejo since 1975 and which at the same time triggers the issue of immigration. That is, in the same situation, we had an attack on private property and an offense on human rights. With regard to immigration, I would like to make it clear that our position is not that of those who defend 'zero immigration' — these immigrant workers and other workers are necessary and are very lacking in our country, which has a shortage of labour, especially in agriculture — but is not the position of those who, more to the left, defend open borders and lack of control, because this is a stimulus to illegal immigration networks. For years, the government has been proud to be exemplary in integrating immigrants. That is what the government says, and that is what it says. And what do we verify about reality? We have seen the situation of a hostel in Lower Lisbon and the conditions under which immigrants are, which the pandemic has exposed. Now, with the same government, the pandemic has exposed more situations, in a much larger, much more serious and much more sharper dimension. In terms of immigration policies, it is at this point that the government is exemplary, a government that boasts about it. The truth is we have complaints about illegal immigration networks and trafficking in persons. Parliament knows that. All Members of 1. the Commission is certainly aware of this since 2016 and 2017. Who brought us these complaints? The SEF! The SEF always asked for the same thing: more means and more inspectors for the Alentejo, more working conditions. The SEF has always asked us to do this!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u89	Since 2014!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u90	What did the government do? The SEF has been extinguished — a brilliant solution! ... That is, what this government has managed to do to the most specialized body in dealing with this matter and in combating these problems has been extinguished. With regard to the party that brought us the subject, and well, I want to say the following: it is very important that this issue does not turn against agriculture, because if it turns against agriculture, it would also be an absolute mistake. what we need is conditions, what we need is supervision, what we need is respect for human rights. It is worth asking, for example, what the ACT (Working Conditions Authority) which went from restaurant to restaurant to control the layoff did in this matter, because it seems that it did not have the same zeal and capacity. This obviously has a name. This is called "incompetence". We need immigrants, because they are important to the economy. We need agriculture, we need supervision, we need rigour and we need humanity. The Government has repeatedly failed over these years and continues to have no answer in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u91	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u92	Madam President, Minister for Agriculture, Minister for Internal Administration, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members : We share the view that the living and housing conditions of seasonal rural workers in Odemira are outraged and that environmental problems in the Mira Rega Perimeter are worrying. We no longer share the ease with which farmers are pointed out as the only ones responsible, nor can we align in the simplistic and false speech that only luxury agricultural products are produced in that region. The question of water deserves concern, but there is no mention of the problem upstream, that is, of the severe breakdown in the water flows of the river Mira à Barrage de Santa Clara, and, even below the dam, no one has been concerned about eliminating the waste of water in a system that is over 50 years old, it is the open sky and it works by gravity. As for the degrading living conditions of rural workers, the authorities are all less innocent. The socialist chamber of Odemira is already four years long to issue a housing permit and the delays in the lotions are a constant. In turn, the agricultural entrepreneurs who want to build housing for the workers are barring with the socialist bureaucracy of the custom: with half a dozen entities that have to give their opinion and that do not understand each other. When any entrepreneur opts to disregard the rules in force, it is time for supervision to fail cryingly. After the successive failures of the central state and the local state — both socialists, it is recalled — and in the face of the need for prophylactic isolation of many workers, what does Minister Cabrite decide? Decides to require civilly certain private accommodation...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u93	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u94	I shall conclude, Madam President. As I was saying, Minister Cabrita chooses to apply civilly for certain private accommodation without taking care of their real situation, undermining private property rights disproportionately, as was seen this very early morning. Another proof that your validity period, Minister, has expired a long time ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u95	For an intervention, Mrs Telma Guerreiro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u96	Madam President, Minister for Internal Administration, Minister for Agriculture, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The tone this discussion took is not the tone that Portugal wants, nor is it certainly the tone Odemira wants and needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I think it is important that we all agree that this discussion does not end today. So we do not have to make all the accusations, we do not have to do everything in this discussion, which does not end, nor can it end, here, by the Country and by Odemira. The situation in Odemira today must be transformed into an opportunity for Odemira and the country, because what is in Odemira is not unique, nor will it be in our future, taking into account our demographic scenario. Portugal will continue to need immigrants. Immigrants living in outraged situations, the odemiers living in a difficult situation, which is not the fault at the moment. What matters to the Odyssians and the Portuguese is that no one is ever willing to forget. It is important that Parliament and the Government show the strength and courage to act in response and, above all, in preventing problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What matters is we take the measures Odemira and the country needs. Odemira also has happy immigrants. I also leave words for the population of Odemira, for their institutions, of deep recognition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Recognition for the ability to resist, for the ability to adapt. Odemira and Odemira will have a word of respect. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For this Parliament and for the Government it will be certain that these people, who are victims today, will not be again, not in Odemira, nor in our country. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is confident that together in this Parliament and in the Government we will be able to give the necessary response, without intransigence to human rights, by fighting without difficulty the economic exploitation, breaking the vicious circle of the inhuman conditions in which these people live, who are people with names, lives and dreams. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Minister, Minister, President, Odemira and Portugal need a vote of confidence that all together we will be able to do more and do better. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u97	For an intervention, Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers for Internal Administration and Agriculture, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The Prime Minister, who, in a short statement to the country on Thursday, came to say that we were facing a gross human rights attack in Odemira, is the same thing that he decided, in a resolution of the Council of Ministers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u99	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u100	...to perpetuate a housing regime in containers in Odemira for the period of 10 years. The gentlemen. Ministers before us have been the ministers who have been to Odemira in recent days and have adopted that same resolution from the Council of Ministers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u101	I want to say that we two years ago in the Assembly of the Republic have defined the framework by which the government should be guided. This should, on the one hand, have the utmost urgency in defining an urban solution and, on the other hand, should strengthen public services, so that everyone, citizens of Odemira and immigrants, would have access to health, education and housing. The government didn't do one thing or another.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u102	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u103	That is why we cannot accept that at the time they had come to defend this solution and now, at the same time, they come to express the government's responsible position on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u104	Mr. Deputy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u105	I will finish, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u106	Mr President, if you please, first listen, then you will answer and then you will be able to continue if the Bureau will allow it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u107	If I may, Madam President, I shall finish now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u108	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u109	The Government which is now charging responsibilities, as it has done on several occasions to agricultural entrepreneurs, who have a great deal of relevance to the country, was the same government that, after its insistent demands, did nothing and ignored this situation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u110	Mr João Dias, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate makes it clear that the causes, the authors and their accomplices are identified. The authors are agricultural holdings, which want to make agricultural workers victims, in order to withdraw the maximum profit from them. But the accomplices have also taken advantage of this situation. We must not fail to denounce the successive governments, which, for inertia and inaction,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u112	Six years ago! Six years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u113	...have let this situation remain. We are challenging this government not to do what the PSD/CDS government does and what the other PS governments have done. In addition to urgent and immediate responses, fundamental measures are needed to protect workers and populations in what they need most and to guarantee living, working and decent housing conditions. This is what PSD, CDS and PS have missed the population and workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u114	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS Parliamentary Group, speaks also for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u115	Mr President, it is only to make it clear, in the remaining five seconds, that this issue should not, in fact, be discussed in a tone of pure preference. But if anyone has always had two faces in this matter it was not on this side, on these benches. Who always had two faces and if someone was complicit in the government and the Socialist Party was the PCP, it was the Left Block and it was the deputies who are in these benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u116	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u117	Yes, you are complicit in silence and have been complicit in everything that has happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u118	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u119	Mr. João Oliveira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u120	It is to make an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u121	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u122	Madam President, it is to request the distribution of a document to all banks, in particular to Mrs Filipa Roseta.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u123	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u124	I wanted to ask that three questions be distributed by the CFP on 29 November 2012 to two CSD ministers and a PSD minister on this issue we are discussing today, with nine years of delay, because the PSD and CDS refused to intervene on this matter! [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. The request is made.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u126	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u127	Mrs. Joana Mortagua, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u128	It is for the same purpose, Madam President, to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u129	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u130	It is also to request the distribution of a bill of the Left Block to combat forced labour and labour exploitation, particularly in the heritage of the Alentejo, which was plummeted in 2014 by the PSD and the CDS in this House. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u131	Thank you very much, Your Honor. For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate is indeed a debate on human rights. It is a debate on the right to life, the right to health, the right to work with rights and the right to housing. The government didn't find Odemira this week. We are not like the right, which confuses and rhymes the pandemic with hypocrisy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u133	Have shame! What a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u134	That is why, with the same border with which we have coordinated the implementation of the state of emergency measures and, now, of the disaster measures, which place Portugal as the country with the best impact results of the pandemic throughout the European Union, we do not hide the real problems. We therefore adopted the necessary measures, as was the case in the Ovar health district, where private hotel facilities were mobilized, as was the case in the area of Great Lisbon, when measures were needed to 19 parish, as is now under the Civil Protection Basics Act, defending the populations and the rule of law. That is why we say: the health area is producing effects, because since the last week Odemira has much less than 50 % of cases of infection than it had on the day the fence was established. Yesterday, they were active 46 cases, when a week ago they were active 123. This is the way, by the right to health and to life, which is for everyone,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...for the Odysseys born there and for the 10,000 citizens who live there but were born in other lands, from Germany to Nepal. They are all equal, all have rights, including the right to permanent residence! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is by a just, cosmopolitan society that we also say here that the economy is fundamental. We want that beautiful land of the coast, of the sun, of the beach, of the forest, of Santa Clara-Saboia, of Boavista dos Pinheiros, which some know as tourists, to have a future. We want rights for all in this land, we want entrepreneurs to assume the commitment of social responsibility. There is only future for the economy with rights, with the right to housing and, for that, we will do everything for Portugal and for the odyssians. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u135	We have concluded the first item on our agenda, so I congratulate the honourable Members. Members of the Government. Let us move on to the second point, which is made up of political statements. To that end, Mr Duarte Pacheco of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Nothing, or even very little, can surprise us in the ‘New Bank brochure’. The Assembly of the Republic, in good time, fulfilling its function of supervision of public acts, determined the Court of Auditors, last October, to carry out, as a matter of urgency, an audit of the management of liabilities and the disposal of assets by the New Bank, whether real estate assets, unproductive claims or other, as well as « its valuation and registration in the balance sheet » and « identification of any management practices in the New Bank leading and oriented towards obtaining a certain net result of the Bank, in order to allow the operation of the contingent capital mechanism », citing the resolution we approved. The Court of Auditors closed the proceedings of the Assembly of the Republic and delivered the result of this audit to Parliament and other entities this week. The document submitted includes relevant information, but, Mr. Members, there are deafening omissions that must now be the subject of analysis by the Portuguese and the Assembly of the Republic, after all, the entity that requested the audit. There are omissions because the audit does not respond to something that has been requested from the Court of Auditors and corresponds to a requirement of all Portuguese. Did the New Bank divestment of assets occur for a fair value? Was the disposal of assets and the damage resulting there well calculated? Has the value already paid to the New Bank been the correct value? Were there management practices designed to deliberately affect bank results so that the institution would seek public money? Who were these assets sold to? To all of this, the Court of Auditors does not answer in this audit and, thus, the Portuguese remain in the same, that is, without knowing whether the account paid with our taxes corresponds to the real value to which we were obliged.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u138	However, we can expect the Court of Auditors to close this omission. On the other hand, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Court has confirmed what many already suspected: that the Resolution Fund did not act proactively in demonstrating, verifying and validating the values to be paid to the New Bank ; that the Resolution Fund did not require the performance of the contractual obligations to which the New Bank was required, i.e. that the Resolution Fund did not take any care in defending taxpayers; that capital injections were made without demonstrating the calculation of the capital deficit. The Court also recognises the importance of selling for the stability of the financial system, which is correct. However, it did not analyse alternatives to liquidation, within the limits of the full maintenance of the New Bank in the public sphere. The Court of Auditors also recognises the lack of transparency in the communication of the impact of both the resolution and the sale on the sustainability of public finances, which could have been avoided if the sale contract had been public since the beginning and not kept in secret, as the Government has always sought to do. What we have already suspected is now confirmed and it is so serious, Madam President, that the PSD will present an exhibition to the Public Prosecutor's Office, in the expectation that something may still happen to clear up responsibilities. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: It is in this context that the New Bank has come to ask the New Money Injection Resolution Fund and the great concern — no doubt! — those responsible for the Resolution Fund, the Banco de Portugal and the Government state that, in the framework I have already mentioned, this financial injection may move forward. It's natural the surprise of the Portuguese! Of course, contracts are to fulfil, even bad contracts, those in which, perhaps, the interests of the State, particularly those of taxpayers, have not been sufficiently safeguarded. But are the Government, the Banco de Portugal and the Resolution Fund sure that the required value is really due? In view of the historical analysis of the invoice, which, according to the conclusion of the Court of Auditors, never happened, is there any guarantee that this will not be repeated now? The "New Bank leaflet" is really scary, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. The Court of Auditors' audit report confirmed the failures of these institutions, but in fact the world did not end with this audit. There is a new financial injection on the table and at least on this one the Portuguese demand that it only happen if proved — I repeat, certainly! — the value is due. Let us hope that good sense is imposed on the authorities. This is not a PSD wish, it is a requirement of all Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u139	Mr Duarte Pacheco, the Bureau registered six Mrs to request clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen. I ask how you want to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u140	Two at a time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. To make the first request for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Duarte Pacheco, I would like to begin by saying hello to you for bringing up the topic of the New Bank, because it is a subject which unfortunately continues to be news and, above all, for the worst reasons. In fact, Portuguese continue to bear the burden of invoices and administrators receiving millionaire prizes. Moreover, the New Bank's decision to award premiums for 2020 to administrators is, in the Greens'perspective, a cruel offense to taxpayers and Portuguese. It is an offense not only because it is the Portuguese who continue to bear this glove, but also because we are talking about a year in which the New Bank has recorded EUR 1329 million of damage. Therefore, the allocation of EUR 2 million to the members of the Board of Directors can only be understood as a real provocation to taxpayers and Portuguese. In addition, we have the first conclusions of the Court of Auditors'audit report on public financing for the New Bank. in this report, the Court of Auditors makes a very critical assessment of the follow-up that the Resolution Fund has made of the whole process of selling the New Bank, as well as identifies risks of compliance, conflict of interest and lack of independence in the activity of the Resolution Fund. Furthermore, Mr Duarte Pacheco: the Court of Auditors confirms what was expected, i.e. that the public interest was absent in this case. The public interest was absent in the privatization of the New Bank, which was assumed by the PS government, but the public interest was also absent in the resolution of BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ), which was, as Mr. Deputy knows and will certainly recognize, assumed during the PSD / CDS government. In view of this, I ask Mr Duarte Pacheco how the PSD views this problem, bearing in mind its responsibilities in this process, which are many, as you well know.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u144	For clarifications, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Duarte Pacheco, if he were in another country, the day after an audit like the one we know of the Court of Auditors, the Prime Minister would be in Parliament to explain why what is said in the audit is very serious for the government. I have to say that maybe it would help if there were 15-year debates!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u146	That's for the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u147	What the audit refers to is as serious as the honourable Member says and even more. I therefore draw a conclusion: the audit says that the Portuguese State has committed itself, in addition to all the amounts we already knew, with even more EUR 1600 million, if everything goes wrong in the New Bank. This is a matter which the Government has called on Parliament. I would like to make this clear and I would like to know whether he thinks that it requires further explanations, in particular that the Government explains, above all, why Parliament has failed the information that the Portuguese State is committed to more than EUR 1600 million, in addition to everything we have already known. I would also like to know what the honourable Member thinks we have heard from the Prime Minister that the contracts are to be fulfilled. Mr. Prime Minister is always very indignant at the New Bank, but when it comes to taking some consequence of his indignation, he says that the contracts are to be fulfilled. The Court of Auditors explained that we are facing a contractual breach. Therefore, I would like to know what the honourable Member of neither the Government nor apparently the Resolution Fund thinks require the contract to be fulfilled. A paragraph in this audit of the Court of Auditors explains that the Banco de Portugal, while suggesting the choice of Lone Star, also suggested that the Government, as the final decision-maker, should promote negotiations so that there is the possibility of other competitors and other companies presenting proposals as good or better than those. However, the Court of Auditors says that there is no evidence of this happening. Don't you think the government owes us an explanation?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u148	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u149	Of course. Finally, I ask the honourable Member if he thinks it reasonable that the great government official for this negotiation is the current Governor of the Banco de Portugal, who, above all, the only thing he was able to say was that he did not agree with the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u150	To reply, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the questions you have raised. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I respond very directly to the issue of prizes. Yesterday, I had the opportunity to tell a media agency that there is only one reaction: "There is a decoration! » I don't think we have to say anything else. When there is no shame, proposals like that appear. But unfortunately, the lack of decorum also occurs in the administration of the New Bank. On the public interest, Mr President, it is also clear in the Court of Auditors report — and it is our opinion — that resolution and alienation have been important to safeguard the stability of the financial system and that is in public interest. Because to safeguard the stability of the financial system, without systemic risk, to safeguard the situation of depositors, maintaining such an institution on the market is public interest. And that has been achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u152	Let's see! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u153	Whether or not there were alternatives, that is another question. I myself said that the Court of Auditors points out that public interest has been guaranteed because alienation has preserved the stability of the financial system, but that it has not studied the alternatives and a limit alternative — which is very dear to the partners of its coalition — would be the bank's own maintenance in the public sphere. That wasn't done. I say this to be completely frank with you. But what we cannot say is that the stability of the financial system is not in the public interest, because it is. On the other issue — and I thank Mrs Cecília Meireles for the questions she has raised — first, of course, the lack of transparency is a criticism which the Court of Auditors makes, but I think it is not just the Court of Auditors, any Portuguese does. To think that an alienation is made and that the contract with the obligations of the State is hidden in the vault, so that the Portuguese do not know and cannot ask for responsibilities, is a shame. And that's what happened for years: the government hid the safe with seven keys so that no one would know what was there. So there are many explanations to be made and, as I said, we are faced with an incompatibility, which we pointed out yesterday, in which Dr. Mário Centeno, in the Banco de Portugal, reacted like the former Minister of Finance who signed this contract. This is something incomprehensible and unacceptable in a rule of law.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u154	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u155	At least if he wanted to defend his personal honor, he would leave the Banco de Portugal, go to a hotel room and talk about it. To mix the functions is once again something very critical, but we have seen everything in this government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u156	To make a request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to the PSD for bringing this issue to debate and it is only for me to say, from now on, Mr Deputy, that Portugal is looting. It's taking away corruption, it's taking away the white collar crimes, and it's also taking away the bad management of the bank, among so many other actors and interests installed. Here you have arrived, Mr President, and considering that only the bank case has already cost more than EUR 25 billion over the last decade to the public record, it is indeed with great concern that we look at the Court of Auditors audit, even though we are not surprised. In fact, the New Bank is a fundless bag whose invoice does not stop being presented to the Portuguese. More: year after year, there are blank cheques that have been passed to Lone Star, on the one hand, and on the other, there is the attitude of contempt of the Administration, towards the Portuguese and the Assembly itself of the Republic, which is absolutely awkward, not going to give itself bonus to reward the damage of its mismanagement. Mr President, the path and position of the NAP in this area are known, and the PSD has already abstained from an initiative that we have brought here in the discussion of the State budget, in particular for the renegotiation of the New Bank's sales agreements. In view of this whole reality and the fact that the Court of Auditors is now pointing out that the New Bank could ultimately cost EUR 10 billion to the public record, the question that is being asked, Mr President, is whether, on a forthcoming NAP initiative for this renegotiation, the PSD will vote in favour. It seems to us that things, as they are, cannot continue. All these capital injections, including in the context of a health crisis, only aggravate all these results and the balance of the country's public accounts. More: this report submitted by the Court of Auditors is absolutely shocking, since from here it is clear that there were responsibilities of Antonio Costa, but also of Passos Coelho, who deceived the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u158	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u159	Mr President, this has to be said, because the PSD has come, and well, bring this concern here. We hope that there will finally be a close position to solve once and for all the problem of the New Bank. There is a clear irresponsibility in this management that must be placed on the table and there must be legislation on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u160	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u161	I shall now conclude, Madam President. in this sense, and given that there is no law that limits the possibility of making new injections into the New Bank without passing the approval of the Assembly of the Republic, the NAP yesterday introduced an initiative which aims to make the approval by this House mandatory, of any capital injection into the bank, including in the New Bank. I ask you, honourable Member, whether or not the PSD will accompany us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u162	To make a request for clarification, Mr João Paulo Correia of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, speaking of the New Bank, for these days, is talking about the decision taken by the institution to reward its top managers and managers, allegedly by the bank management in 2020 which has presented a historic damage, when once again it calls for the support of the Resolution Fund. The Socialist Party said in this regard that this decision of the New Bank is immoral and unacceptable. This is not the first time it is taken and we consider that the Resolution Fund's decision to discount these EUR 2 million from the management premium of a possible transfer that will be made in the coming years between the Resolution Fund and the New Bank is positive. We also see that the PSD has changed its needle over the past 24 hours over what has failed over the years on the solution for the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u164	Talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u165	The PSD always defended that the sale had been the best solution. Last night, the President of the PSD called into question, saying that the sale would not have been the best solution and that probably keeping the New Bank in the public sphere would have been better. Mr Duarte Pacheco, in his speech, tried to do a little of that. Well, I was surprised, as many Members of this House certainly did. But I quickly arrived at two draft resolutions that were presented here by the Left Block and the PCP on 3 February 2017, which proposed exactly the maintenance of the New Bank in the public sphere, proposing until a study was done for this purpose, and the PSD and the CDS voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u166	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u167	Therefore, this debate was held at its own time in 2017, when the Portuguese State and the Government were obliged to sell the New Bank. And we have to remember what was on the table: wind up the New Bank or sell it. Liquidating the New Bank had gross costs for public finances and taxpayers, including the increase in public debt interest, in the house of hundreds of millions of euros, a new universe of damages, the capitalisation of the Deposit Guarantee Fund for deposits up to €100,000. So we were talking about more than billions of euros that had much higher costs than the sales product. But the sale only took place in 2017 because someone failed to sell the bank in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u168	For God's sake...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u169	Who created the New Bank promised a good bank and failed! Whoever promised to sell the New Bank in 2015 failed. And who failed? There are two names and two leaders: Pedro Passos Coelho and Carlos Costa. Mr. Deputies knows that. May the PSD not lose memory and have intellectual dignity in this debate! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Duarte Marques's laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u170	To reply, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u171	Madam President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I want to leave two notes on the issues you have raised. Firstly, it is necessary to separate — sometimes there are those who do not separate, and I think that in their values they did not separate — loans to banks that paid and returned with interest rates of 10 %. There are private banks that have received a loan that have returned to the State with a interest of 10 % and that value cannot be seen as a cost to the taxpayer. What we have to see is what was borrowed thoroughly, what happened in Box, BPN ( Portuguese Business Bank ) and New Bank — and does not reach that value.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u172	It's not a blue bag!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u173	But, whatever it is, it is a high value for any one of us and for the Portuguese, of course. I leave another important note to see what separates us from what has been the behaviour of the government and Dr. Mário Centeno. One year ago, Dr. António Costa told us: "Without real clearance of whether the value is due, there is no transfer to the New Bank". However, behind his back, Dr. Mário Centeno was passing the check, because for him the most important thing is to fulfill the contract. What we are saying is that we are afraid that this will happen again, even now when the Court of Auditors confirms that the Resolution Fund does not carry out the evaluation and analysis of the accounts presented to it. Therefore, I repeat, contracts are to fulfill, yes, if the value is due. But without looking at the bill, I'm going through the check without worrying? Oh, my God! Of course, the money isn't theirs, it's all of us, because if it were them, they would be more careful to make their accounts when they paid them. Mr. João Paulo Correia, it is important to make this distinction. Mr. Deputies, imagine that you have a property and that you want to alienate it. But if you don't find the best solution on the market and know that you're going to lose money, you can think about keeping that property for a while longer, value it and sell it later.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u174	If I'm forced to sell...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u175	This is different from the ideological question that says that property should always be public, ad perpetuity, or that we have as principle that sale is the solution. However, the sale must be in good condition, i.e. under the conditions in which the public interest and the interest of taxpayers can be better profitable. What is proven is that this did not happen on the sale in 2017. And now you realize more, you realize it was consciously, because, as this was in the conscience of the rulers who did the alienation, they hid the contract to seven keys!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u176	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u177	If they were so sure the sale was a good solution, the contract would have been public, it would have been scolded by all of us. Only they preferred to hide it, because they were aware that they were misleading the Portuguese, saying that this had no cost to the taxpayer and that there was no public guarantee. But every time you open a door you find another debt to be paid by the state. Shame! And who's responsible for that? Dr. Mário Centeno! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u178	To make a request for clarification, Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u179	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, I welcome you for bringing to this debate the topic of public control of the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u180	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u181	The honourable Member quoted the report of the Court of Auditors and several of the consequences of the decisions taken by both the PSD/CDS government and the PS. For example, in the privatisation decided by the PS government, no caution was given to defending taxpayers and the announced control mechanisms do not work. The funds of the Resolution Fund — this is also in the Court of Auditors report — are indeed public resources, I repeat, are public resources, they are nothing else. The cost-free resolution for the taxpayer announced by the PSD/CDS government and then the cost-free privatization for the taxpayer, presented by the PS government, are political fraud because they had costs for the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u182	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u183	Therefore, it is revealed by this audit that the New Bank seeks to use all the CCA (Contingent Capital Agreement) funds and, if possible, to go further in the use of public resources. In the face of all these findings, the question that we ask the PSD is this: what consequences does this take? Do you keep a private bank paid by the State? The state pays, but doesn't it? What are the consequences of this? Do we still have a situation in which the Portuguese state and taxpayers pay for cleaning the bank, but the bank is placed in the hands of the private? One day he makes a profit, is profit private? This is the question that we put to the PSD and, indeed, to all parties. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u184	To make a request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u185	Madam President, the first thing I am glad to say is that it has been a long time for the PSD to defend the option of keeping the New Bank in the public sphere and the CDS brings into question the fulfilment of contracts! It was a long way to get here. The audit does not, in fact, make an analysis of the management acts, even though that was the request to the Court of Auditors, but confirms one thing, in fact, denounces one thing: it denounces the political farce which was the intervention at BES, both at the time of the resolution and at the time of sale. And this farce policy was a conscious decision of both the PSD and the CDS and the PS when they told citizens that the resolution and sale of the New Bank would not cost taxpayers money. This is the farce that the Court of Auditors destroys, not only saying that all this money that was invested in the New Bank and was paid to the New Bank is taxpayers' money, but also the own contributions that are financing the Resolution Fund are taxes that belong to the State and not to the Resolution Fund, are allocated to the Resolution Fund. Moreover, the Court of Auditors confirms what we have been saying for years. The New Bank's sale contract is ruinous! It's ruinous for the state! It has no mechanisms to defend the public interest and was only imposed on the country under a farce, the farce that there was no guarantee, the farce that the guarantee would not be for use and the farce, that the perpetual government, to say that it is a business between private parties and that it has nothing to do with taxpayers. This farce has fallen and today it is the Court of Auditors who says so. The second thing the Court of Auditors says is that there are no control mechanisms, because all administrative decisions will fall on the Resolution Fund. This is because all management decisions have an impact on capital, so they can trigger a capital injection, even if they do not have to do with the portfolio of toxic assets that has been guaranteed. So when the Administration decides to award management premiums, that goes to the capital account! In fact, in this case, the Resolution Fund was ashamed and said it didn't pay. But how many other decisions of this kind did the Administration not make and that fell on taxpayers? Oh, my God! Are we going to trust an administration that awards millionaires while letting the bank get hurt? Is this the administration we trust?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u186	I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u187	I will finish, Madam President. Mrs. Members, the new decision to inject money into the New Bank will come to the Assembly of the Republic. There are many statements now on the positions of the various parties, but the final decision will be taken at that time. I therefore ask the PSD whether it will be consistent at that time and whether it will be voted against a new injection, which, in fact, is not even necessary now, with the new capital rules. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u188	To reply, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Duarte Alves, more than one question, his speech was an ideological assumption of a model of society, which does not correspond to ours, in which everything should be public. It is not our position, therefore, that is a fundamental divergence which separates us in this matter. With regard to the questions put by Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I share the idea that the contract is ruinous, it is confirmed. The sale contract was ruinous and, perhaps, it was hidden for so long from all of us. It says the Court of Auditors, but anyone with good sense can conclude this, that there are no control mechanisms. We have already understood and the Court of Auditors has confirmed it. Therefore, what is placed on the table, even more so than we are discussing the past—which is always important, of course, for the discharge of responsibilities—is to ask the leaders of the Resolution Fund whether they will act as they have worked over these years. If they will pass the check without making a validation of all accounts and if all that is due is really due. The Court of Auditors says: « They never did. » Perhaps they did not do so because the money was not theirs, it was all of us, but the question is to do the same again, because now it is no longer the opposition parties to say it, it is the Court of Auditors itself that says "You have not done it! Are you going to do the same or not? Do not keep on seeking. ” Let us hope that there will also be decoration on the part of the authorities. That the contracts are to be fulfilled are, but I only fulfill a contract if I'm owed what was presented to me. And that has to be proven before any payment. Thank you, Madam President, for all the tolerance throughout these answers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u190	Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u191	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The world learned last night that the United States of America has changed its position in relation to vaccines against COVID-19 and they will begin to defend the lifting of patents. Why? Because they finally concluded that this is the only way to intensify production, i.e., is the only way to intensify vaccination. Finally, they concluded that the universalization of the vaccine is the way to control the pandemic and that we either vaccinate all over the world or we will not find the exit door of the pandemic. It's a historic decision that only sins late. The information and technology needed to overcome the pandemic never, I repeat, should never have been patented, should never have been exploited as merchandise. They must be a public good, a universal good, something that the Left Block has always defended. The question is now raised: what about the European Union? What about the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union? Will they continue to accept a slow and asymmetric vaccination between the various states, all on behalf of the interests of pharmaceutical laboratories? Will they continue to block the proposal of tens of countries defending the lifting of patents by saying that they can have production capacity, which can contribute to the increase in world production? António Guterres, who is ahead of the UN ( United Nations ), as you know, has already said several months ago that information needs to be shared so that large world laboratories can produce and rapidly increase the number of vaccines available. However, in March of this year, both the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister continued to insist on a narrative that is false, saying that the problem is not the patents, but rather the lack of industrial capacity around the world. The World Health Organization ( WHO ), in June last year, launched a public appeal to ensure that all research, all technology related to COVID-19, in particular the technology that benefited from public support and investment, was shared. At the time, the Portuguese Government went on to place its signature on this call for solidarity with the universalisation of technology and information. It is unfortunate that at the World Trade Organization ( WTO ) meeting it completely burned its position in the World Health Organization and voted against the patent lifting proposal. In the World Trade Organization, he gave the unspoken statement and left aside the position of the World Health Organization. In Portugal, a call with several former health ministers of the former Governments of the Socialist Party could not be clearer, and I quote : « It is now time to invoke European industrial property legislation to allow the production in factories of various laboratories available in several Member States. Now is the right time for vaccines to be considered as a good of common interest, the production of which must be controlled and extended using all processes so that the population is quickly vaccinated." To this, the Prime Minister once again replied that the problem was not that of patents, it was that there was no productive capacity. This argument was not true. That is not true. It is false and only served to protect pharmaceuticals, delay production and vaccination. It is more than time for the Portuguese Government to abandon this subservience position in relation to the interests of pharmaceuticals and a failed strategy of the European Union. The same goes for you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for all of you. Members of the Socialist Party, the Social Democratic Party, the CDS-PP, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival which, less than a month ago, voted against a legislative initiative that the Left Block brought the debate for the lifting of patents and to ensure an increase in the rate of vaccination in Portugal and around the world. Every time the European Union, the government or the central and right parliamentary parties refused that the vaccines were a common good, they delayed the vaccination process. It's your responsibility. of more than 4 million vaccines Portugal should have received by the end of the first quarter, only half were actually received. As a result, fewer than 2 million people were vaccinated in our country by the end of March. Whenever the European Union, the government or the central and right parties refuse to lift the patents, they will only be extending the pandemic and enhancing the emergence of new variants that may be more dangerous and more contagious. That's why you and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, time to stop protecting profit and start protecting people. It is time to have health as a priority and make it a public, common and universal good. This is not the time to say that it is available to start discussing the lifting of patents. This is time to lift the patents. The Portuguese Government is required to take this position and to say today that it is in favour of the lifting of patents.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u192	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u193	I will finish, Madam President. The various parliamentary groups in this Assembly of the Republic are required to take the same position. Less than that, it's not acceptable. As for the parties which, less than a month ago, voted against the lifting of patents, they are still in time to correct their huge mistake. Today, they have that possibility. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u194	The honourable Member has five requests for clarification. How do you want to answer? [[Pause.]] You pointed out that you will respond first to three requests, to which the remaining two will be followed. For clarifications, Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Moisés Ferreira, I would like to welcome the Block on the Left for bringing this issue to debate. It is a current and timely issue, which is on the agenda and on which the PSD does not waive the right to have closed or magical positions. On the other hand, we recognize the importance of patents as an incentive for scientific innovation and, on the other hand, we do not ignore the gravity and overall character of the health emergency that calls us. For the Left Block, we know that this theme has nothing to do with health or the fight against pandemic, being just another pretext for affirming its ideological prejudice and its ongoing social struggle. For the Block, vaccine patents are, like private property in general, a theft.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u196	Don't say that about Joe Biden!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u197	The Block despises and ignores the effects that the lifting of these patents can cause in the research and development of drugs, and this was the research, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, this scientific innovation, which allowed vaccines to be available in less than one year — in record time — to fight the pandemic. It is a year which corresponds to many years of research and many million investments. The honourable Member said that we should never patent the vaccines, and I say that this 'never' would probably mean that we had never had vaccines available in this record time. For the PSD, what matters and what calls us is to speed up the production of vaccines and make them reach all the world as soon as possible, not ignoring existing limitations in production capacity and supply chains themselves. We don't believe it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in any case, who are hostile to those who, as a result of their research and commitment, have been able to find a record-breaking response in order to halt a global pandemic crisis is the solution. This is a debate that we believe must always be done with respect for the countries producing vaccines, calling for solidarity among nations.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u198	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u199	I will finish, Madam President. So I would like to ask you, Mr President, to what extent does the Left Block consider that the lifting of patents alone will increase the manufacturing capacity of vaccines?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u200	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u201	To what extent will the lifting of industrial property not, in the future, compromise the therapeutic innovation that we will need, with the new variants? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u202	For a request for clarification, Mr Nuno Aragão of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u203	Madam President, I like the name, but I don't identify. My name is really Bruno Aragon. Sorry about the joke. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u204	I'm sorry, sir, but that's what you're writing here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u205	Madam President, there is no problem. Let all our difficulties be those! Mr Moisés Ferreira, thank you for the question that brings us, but in fact, it cannot be torn apart from what is happening: 3, 5 million vaccines administered; more than 2, 6 million people with the first dose taken; we are close to a million people with full vaccination; on average, 77 000 vaccines are given per day and we have not yet reached the maximum capacity; more than 70 % of people over 65 have already taken the vaccine; and more than 200 000 Portuguese have already made the self-registration. We are already in the second phase of the plan and, still this week, we have had the Technical Commission on Vaccination against COVID-19 confirming that we have followed the criteria that have been applied and that the task force continues to implement its plan without any setbacks. Therefore, I think it is important to recall the statements of the Left Block coordinator on April 8 because I think we all review them, and I quote: "I trust science, listen to the responsible authorities and do not create alarms where they should not exist. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u206	Good citation!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u207	I return the question: and, then, Europe? Europe is that of concertation, as we always stand for! The Europe of concertation is for vaccines and funds — there is no Europe for one thing and one Europe for another. So what about Europe? Europe is perhaps the only big block in the world that has made more than 200 million vaccines available to other countries, to more than 90 countries. Solidarity is not for the rest, as we all know. Therefore, the question I put to you is very concrete. in this framework and in this Community view which we have of all these countries, the Left Block whether or not it accompanies this European solidarity or will it be each one of us? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u208	For a request for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u209	Madam President, I welcome Mr Moisés Ferreira and start by telling him that, when I agreed with this news today, I soon thought that you would be here to talk about this, but I am pleased to discuss it with you. However, there is a small difference in the assumption that it is as follows: we are in the context of a discussion of the World Trade Organization, which has 164 countries, and we are not in the context of the discussion of the Left Block initiatives. Anyone who heard him speak seemed that, if we had approved the project of the Left Block, patents in the outside world had already been lifted and there were already vaccines in all countries, from Africa to India, which they need. Mr, a bit of modesty did not hurt you either! Specifically, within the framework of the World Trade Organization, in the Doha Declaration, which is a treaty, simplifying, on aspects related to intellectual property, what is being discussed is not the lifting of patents at all. This is because people, in spite of everything, have the slightest notion and know that, if a patent survey was made, there would never be 1 € invested in research and development...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u210	There's been and it hasn't happened!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u211	...and the drugs that you so much value would never exist, unless, of course, they were produced in the Military Laboratory, and we well know that you are particularly well equipped to do so! We are discussing a transitional agreement — an agreement, not an imposition! — for the production, in other factories, of vaccines for countries with a shortage. Therefore, Mr President, do not galvanize the patent lifting, because I think you also know that they would have harmful effects on another type of intellectual property, such as literary or artistic production. There should be a minimum of rules to make this regulation. Just to calm your enthusiasm, I would like to tell you that the United States, through its representative, said that they would only discuss this matter after the group immunity is ensured in your country. Anyway, things happen the way they do.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u212	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u213	I'm done, yes, Madam President. Mr President, I would like to ask you if you are so naive to think that tomorrow's patents are lifted — with all this good will and why in Parliament we agree — and then all the countries will have vaccines the next day, regardless of the raw materials and everything is related to research and development and investment done so far? Do you really believe that?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u214	To reply, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am grateful for the questions asked by Mrs Sandra Pereira, Mr Bruno Aragão and Mrs Ana Rita Bessa. I shall then answer in the same order. Mrs Sandra Pereira, in some way, although she now says that she has no closed position on the subject, it has been an evolution which has been recorded in the last three weeks. I am glad that there was evolution, it was recorded, but it sounded a little like the trompist doctrine of the communist danger that comes with Biden and out there. However, I would like to mention to you the following: I said that the position of the Left Block on the vaccine patents for COVID-19 has nothing to do with health. Well, it's a little scary, because, look, if there's no production, there's not, finally, imagine, vaccination; if there's no vaccination, there's no group immunity or protection against COVID-19; if there's not enough vaccination and production, the variants that will appear will be, by natural selection mechanisms, more dangerous, more contagious, more infectious, etc. , a fact for which everyone in this world has warned. I therefore do not see how this debate can be shut down in a debate on health. I believe that you want to run away from this debate because you probably haven't made enough progress since three weeks ago, but you will certainly have enough time to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u216	Another three weeks? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u217	Mr Bruno Aragão also asked some questions and ended up asking whether we believe in solidarity or in a mechanism for each one of us. For information sharing, technology sharing, patenting so that there can be widespread production in the world, particularly through productive capacity in India, South Africa, Brazil and in so many countries that say they have productive capacity but cannot produce because they do not give them access to technology and information, this is the position of solidarity, yes! Don't forget what Antonio Guterres says: only a small part of the world's population is having access to vaccines. That's what everyone is for you, sir! To maintain patents, to maintain a mechanism that is an obstacle to production, that is, it is, by itself, that it is the rich countries against the poor countries and, within the rich countries, the rich against the poor and so on. That's what each one of you is! Already sharing technology, sharing information and raising patents are mechanisms of solidarity. If the question was somewhat rhetorical, in the sense of saying that the Socialist Party is on the side of solidarity, then it will have to radically change its position on patents, because being on the side of solidarity is now to defend the lifting of patents. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, also register some wordplay not to be caught by what I said three weeks ago, but did I not see the CDS-PP position on the debate we are having: should Parliament or should not support the lifting of patents?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u218	Not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u219	That is really the big issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u220	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u221	This is not what is going to happen tomorrow, but today in this debate: what is the position of the Assembly of the Republic? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u222	For a request for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u223	Madam President, I would like to congratulate you and also congratulate you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Moisés Ferreira, for the important subject which he brings to debate in the Assembly of the Republic on vaccination and the issue of vaccine patents. I wanted to start by saying that, perhaps, when technological innovation and innovation in the field of medicine is evoked, it is important to keep in mind that research often starts in public institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u224	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u225	In the overwhelming majority of situations, where the investigation begins is in public institutions and then when it begins to take a step and when it can have a way to walk, then companies appear to acquire knowledge and to develop it from there to the front.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u226	Looking for the business!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u227	Therefore, it is not true that the alpha and the omega of innovation are placed in the pharmaceutical industry.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u228	You're absolutely right, Your Honor! We can always take a Ben-u-ron!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u229	With regard to vaccines against COVID-19, it is still important to bear in mind that if there had not been extensive public funding for the development of these vaccines - and it was important that they had been developed in the time they were - we would not be having this discussion today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u230	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u231	We must therefore also take this into account in this debate. Mr President, about a month ago the CFP brought a very concrete proposal to the Assembly of the Republic in which it put three essential axes for vaccination: diversifying the purchase, investing in production capacity in our country and suspending the validity of patents. This proposal was precisely designed to accelerate vaccination, to protect our population more quickly, to resume normally and safely, as is obvious, economic and cultural activities, i.e. to return life to people. These are the key strategic issues we have right now! Indeed, it does not make sense that there is productive capacity and that there are factories in the world that can produce more vaccines and that are not being used. This is an essential aspect and therefore the CFP presented these proposals, which have been rejected, which well reveals the positioning of the PS, the PSD, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival. Between defending health and defending industry's interests, what stands out is defending industry's interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u232	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u233	Even last week, in the European Parliament, proposals to consider the vaccine as a public good and once again to suspend patents, the PS, the PSD and the CDS-PP voted against. I believe that this well reveals the positioning of these parties. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask a question. We agree with the suspension of patents and also consider it important in our country to have this productive capacity that we do not have today. In view of the situation we are living in, in which the need for the vaccine is anticipated for longer and taking into account this same reality, does the Left Block not follow the PCP proposal on the need for investment in productive capacity in our country, of course, in the production of vaccines against COVID-19?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u234	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u235	These vaccines will be necessary for the future of our country! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u236	For a request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the ENP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u237	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome Mr Moisés Ferreira for bringing us this issue, since vaccination is the most important element of hope at the moment, for the Portuguese, for our country, for the world. This hope is very unequal and is in tremendous inequality conditions, since the pandemic has not been able to change political options and, above all, the option of prioritising profit rather than people's health. Ensuring the vaccination of all, overcoming the problems that may exist, especially in terms of hiring the required nurses, ensuring the spaces with the conditions appropriate to the complex process, ensuring that it reaches all those who need protection, because they are more vulnerable to the disease, seems to be the way in which it does not go back in the process of defining. But the truth is, as the number of people vaccinating progresses, new problems are emerging, because logistics starts to be heavy and vaccinate, every day, 100 000 people are not the same thing as vaccinating 120 000 on a weekend. The Greens stated, in several debates on the subject, that it was time for the Portuguese Government to assume its role in the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, seeking to extend the supply of vaccines, facing the powerful interests of pharmaceuticals, demanding them to comply with contracts or ensuring, at national level, the purchase of more vaccines to other suppliers. The numbers show that vaccination is already having positive effects, with fewer deaths due to COVID-19, but we cannot continue with this rate of vaccination. For this, it is necessary for Portugal to do what we have been defending for months, i.e. to take into its hands the purchase of vaccines to other suppliers and, in the medium term, to bet on the production of vaccines. The question I leave you with is whether this would be the way to deal with the pandemic more safely.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u238	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u239	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am grateful for the questions put by Mrs Paula Santos and Mrs Mariana Silva. Starting with the issue of productive capacity in the country, yes, we think there must be an investment in the country's productive capacity. contrary to what we heard from the benches on the right, which say that only the laboratories, only the pharmaceutical companies are able to guarantee the vaccine, if we look at the size of our country, we can prove that this is not the case. For example, the Molecular Medicine Institute is developing pioneering worldwide research in malaria vaccine; the Institute of Research and Innovation in Health, (i3S) in Porto, is developing research into a Portuguese vaccine against COVID-19. In the academy, in public institutes and in public research laboratories, the leap needed for production is that of production capacity, as is obvious. by the visas in Portugal, even with the investment deficiencies that exist in the area of research and science, we were able to have research, so what is really missing is investment in production, which, if it is said to be passing through, is not as difficult as that to carry out. Now, on this day, when we know of Biden's availability and even the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen to finally debate the lifting of patents, also within the framework of the European Union, which is recorded by the Government, which is by chance even in the Presidency of the European Union, is an absurd silence. The Government should have used the Presidency of the European Union to defend public health and the health of the population, not only Portuguese, not only European, but global, but never. That silence should no longer have existed before, but now that there is a predisposition on the other side of the Atlantic to raise patents and that on the side of the Presidency of the European Commission there is a predisposition to debate the lifting of patents, the Government remains silent. This silence is absurd and cannot continue. in the same way, we should note that even with all these facts on the table, even though it is necessary to increase production, what we have heard today say to the Socialist Party, the Social Democratic Party and the CDS — the parties on the right must have nothing to say about the matter, it should not be a matter that feels of interest to the population — it is: "We are on the side of the interests of pharmaceuticals. On the property no one touches, on the patents no one touches! Do not keep on seeking. ” by the visas, are probably the last reduction in the defense of the Pfizer stock capitalization, etc. , but not in defense of public health.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u241	I think that is what is to be recorded in this debate, in fact, to record negatively in this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u242	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The publication of the Court of Auditors'audit report to the public financing of the New Bank, with strong criticism of government, supervisors, Resolution and Administration Fund of the New Bank, and the announcement by the New Bank Administration of the decision to award its own management premiums for the year 2020, which reach close to 2 million euros, are elements that confirm the need for what the CFP has proposed almost seven years ago : the public control of the New Bank. It is the only option to ensure the end of the bleeding of public resources in favour of a private entity and a step towards the path that it is necessary to get the beneficiaries of BES and GES (Groupe Espírito Santo) to pay for the damages that caused the country with its ruinous management. It is public control that enables the removal of the current administration, to provide conditions for the recovery of losses that have been borne by the State and to place the bank at the service of the national economy, bringing it into the public sphere as a specialized tool for support to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and investment, as necessary at the moment. The audit of the Court of Auditors and the decision of the Administration of the New Bank demonstrate that the large private groups continue to act in the bank and complicity of those who do not enforce the defence of the public interest. The audit of the Court of Auditors is clear: the administration that does not meet the reporting obligations; the administration that manages the bank in order to consume as much money as possible, not only in the assets covered by the contingent capital agreement, but in all the activity of the bank; the administration that does not even meet the reporting obligations to the Court of Auditors; the administration that continues to swallow millions of euros paid by Portuguese, is the same administration that seeks to reward itself with 2 million euros, even in a year when thousands of Portuguese go through enormous difficulties. Defeat is a lot, but indignation has to have consequences. PSD and CDS are responsible for disastrous decisions that have been made in relation to BES, but also the PS is responsible because it insisted on privatization, which is already ruinous, and did not caution mechanisms to prevent the allocation of these variable premiums and remunerations to administrators and senior bank managers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the main findings of the Court of Auditors audit confirm what the CFP has said long ago: they confirm that, contrary to what has often been repeated, the resources of the Resolution Fund are public resources — they consolidate in the Budget, count on the deficit, are the result of a tax contribution. No other sector beyond the bank has the privilege of having a portion of its taxes directly assigned to the resolution of the sector itself, when they mismanage their resources, not even other sectors that also pay extraordinary contributions. Moreover, the Court of Auditors says that those who end up paying these contributions are bank customers. On the other hand, the Court of Auditors also says what has long been said by the CFP: who said that there would be a resolution or a cost-free privatization for taxpayers lied to the Portuguese. The PSD/CDS Government was the first to be responsible for this fraud, stating that it was possible to solve the BES with EUR 4, EUR 9 billion and that this did not represent costs for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u244	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u245	The consequences of this political fraud are still present, and also in the Committee of Inquiry we are becoming more and more sure that there was no 'good bank', which is clean of toxic assets. The second responsible is the PS government that promoted the ruinous privatization of the New Bank. It gave Lone Star 75 % of the shares of a bank for zero euros, the exchange of a capital injection of 1000 million, but with public guarantee, which is what it is, of 3900 million euros. It was Lone Star with ‘the knife and cheese in hand’ to manage the assets covered by the agreement and also the bank’s capital ratios in order to suck all this money and if possible go further, invoking adverse circumstances. The Resolution Fund, which still has 25 % of the bank, has no place in the administration allowing it to control at least what is happening on behalf of the public interest. The government said there would be control mechanisms. What we have already understood, and what the Court of Auditors now confirms, is that none of these mechanisms actually work. Lone Star makes the necessary engineering to keep the capital levels at a level and sells the assets at a balance price to get the maximum of the public guarantee without the Resolution Fund requiring the provision of accounts. It is already about EUR 8 billion paid by the Portuguese to bear these losses, in a situation responsible for governments, the Banco de Portugal and also European authorities. The BES has over the years been an instrument that served the great interests of high-ranking businesses in offshorers, from shareholder wars in other banks, football, construction, etc. In the New Bank period, many of these debtors, who owed to hundreds of millions, increased their exposure to the bank and continued to generate losses that continue to be paid by all Portuguese. And the biggest scandal is this: it's still the state paying, but the bank's private.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u246	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u247	In other words, as long as it damages, the State pays the accounts—until it pays the administrators' bonuses—but one day it makes profits they go to Lone Star or to any private banking group to whom the bank sells. We do not accept that more money is being given to the New Bank or that the Government is looking for subterfuges to do so on the margins of the Budget. The government has to implement what is in the Budget, in order to respond to the country's problems, rather than looking for ways to make transfers to the bank that are nowhere in the approved budget. But it is not enough not to hand over any more money to the New Bank, it is necessary to recover what already "lives"! It was said a few years ago that there were too large banks to fail. We say today that what the Portuguese have already put in the New Bank is too great a value for the bank to continue to be private. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u248	Mr Duarte Alves, the Bureau records the registration of two Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. How do you want to answer? [[Pause.]] Mr Duarte Alves told the Bureau that he would respond to the two requests for clarification together. You have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Alberto Fonseca, from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u249	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the CFP and Mr Duarte Alves on bringing this issue — indeed, the PSD has already done so — which the Portuguese are very concerned about. We all knew but the Court of Auditors confirmed that the liquidation of BES would have been much more disastrous for all: financial system, BES depositors and taxpayers in general. We all knew, too, and the Court of Auditors confirmed that Prime Minister Antonio Costa and then Minister of Finance Mário Centeno lied to the Portuguese. They lied when they said that the way in which the New Bank was sold would have no indirect impact on public accounts. Now, until today, the public accounts have been affected by EUR 3 billion and tomorrow — and, when I say tomorrow, it is tomorrow — it could be more than EUR 400 million. They lied when they said that the way in which the New Bank was sold would also have no direct impact on public accounts, nor any new charges on taxpayers. We already knew that there was a backstop capital clause in which the Portuguese State committed itself to placing money there, this time not through the Resolution Fund but directly by the State. The Court of Auditors showed this amount — EUR 1600 million. It is EUR 1600 million of potential direct impact that the government has always hidden from the Portuguese. It is curious that Mário Centeno quickly responded to this report by the Court of Auditors, not to defend the public interest, but to defend himself. In footnote we read that he was the Governor of Banco de Portugal speaking, but who we heard was the former Minister of Finance — so we always objected to his transfer to Banco de Portugal — the Minister who has always shown a great deal of hurry to pass the check to the New Bank. We all remember what happened last year. This year the Government has not disguised the desire to pass the check quickly and in any way, even when the Assembly of the Republic has approved something different. They passed a check, and very large, to an entity that miraculously announces profits, passing from years of losses to miraculous profits, a bank that properly capitalized with the money of the Portuguese taxpayers wants to buy another bank already.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u250	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u251	I shall conclude, Madam President. An entity that asks the Resolution Fund for EUR 600 million on Monday, but on Tuesday it distributes EUR 2 million to its administration. I conclude by asking the CFP whether, as the only major partner remaining with this Government, he does not feel, like all Portuguese, deceived by this Government with regard to the sale of the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u252	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u253	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Duarte Alves, I would also like to congratulate you on bringing the issue of the New Bank back to the debate, because it is a subject, as I have just said, which unfortunately continues to be news and, once again, for the worst reasons. It continues to be reported because on the table there is the award of millionaire prizes to New Bank administrators, in a kind of test to the patience of the Portuguese. It continues to be reported that the first findings of the Court of Auditors' audit report to the public financing of the New Bank have been published confirming that the public interest has not been convened either for the BES resolution process, for the responsibility of the PSD Government and the CDS-PP - and we all remember the discussion of then that there was no cost to the taxpayer and therefore they also lie to the Portuguese, Mr Alberto Fonseca -, nor was it called for the privatisation process of the New Bank assumed by the PS government. The New Bank is still news, too, because Portuguese continue to pay a lot of money and no problems are solved around this bank process. In fact, there are already EUR 8 billion that the Portuguese have had to endure until now and without knowing when the tap is closed. And the worst thing is that, despite this heavy burden, the Portuguese do not see the problems of the New Bank solved, on the contrary. Mr Duarte Alves, The Greens continue to consider absolutely unacceptable and, to all the titles, immoral that the Portuguese pay the bill of a bank's resolution, which is already going, as I said earlier, at EUR 8 billion, to then return the New Bank to a private economic group. This is not, in our view, to respect taxpayers, that is to deceive and offend Portuguese. I therefore ask Mr Duarte Alves what solution does it definitely point to solving the problem in the New Bank and putting it at the service of the country's economy and development?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u254	Mr Duarte Alves, before giving you the floor to answer, I would like to inform you that two more speakers have been enrolled to ask for clarification. I want to take this opportunity to appeal to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Today, we have a long agenda, so I ask them, on the one hand, to work together in the management of speaking time so as not to exceed themselves excessively, to pass redundancy, and, on the other, to sign up, to ask for clarification, during the political declaration that is being made. Having said that, you have the floor to respond to the requests for clarification already made, Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u255	Madam President, I am grateful for the questions put by the honourable Members. Members Alberto Fonseca and José Luís Ferreira. Replying directly to the question put to me, Mr. Alberto Fonseca, I must say that the CFP is very pleased with its initiative in the various budgets, in which it has always proposed that it should not give more than € 1 to the New Bank without ensuring its public control, proposals that were rejected by PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL. So that is our proposal. In reply also to Mr Luís Ferreira, we believe that this is the solution to be put on the table, because we find it truly unbelievable that the State pays but does not send and has no control over the bank. Recently, Mr Duarte Pacheco, in reply to a question I asked him about his political statement, said that my question contained an ideological vision, because I wanted everything for the state. Now, here, we're not even on this level, because what we're talking about is the state paying but the bank being private. The problem is that, is that the state is paying and will continue to pay up to EUR 8 billion — in fact, it is already close to that value...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u256	It's going to be 9 billion euros!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u257	...—and, in the end, the bank will be private. Doesn't this confuse you? When the New Bank says that, for the year, it will announce profits, it does not confuse it that, while there was damage, it has been the State to pay, but one day, when there is profits, these will be private? I heard today, for the first time, the PSD talks about public control, in the political statement you made. So the question I want to put here is whether the PSD draws some conclusion from the statements it makes and from the reading of the Court of Auditors report. The only conclusion that can be drawn from here is that, at the moment, what is needed is not only not to hand over more money to the New Bank but also to seek out who is already there and put the bank in service of the national economy, ensuring its public control. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u258	Thank you very much, Mr President. And I have to inform you that there is another speaker inscribed to ask for clarification, because, from the moment when an exception is opened, it has to be for everyone. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u259	Mr President, Mr Duarte Alves, I am grateful that I once again brought this subject to debate, even because there are several aspects that deserve time to be discussed. There is an issue which has rarely been spoken of, because it is relatively complex, but which has to be spoken of. It is that the portfolio of toxic assets generates losses that are guaranteed by the State. But in order to access these losses as a guarantee, as a capital injection, the bank has to have an insufficiency of capital. And for the bank to be able to have this capital failure, any management decision counts. When the bank decides to adopt an accounting rule x instead of y, it impacts the capital. When the bank decides to invest in public debt from the United States of America or Brazil, this affects the capital. When the bank decides to award prizes, it impacts the capital. All day-to-day decisions determine whether the public injection will be greater or less. Now, these management decisions have never been audited and the audit says nothing about them. And that is why this contract is ruinous and gives private management all the power to manipulate the contract and this without speaking in another « monster », very difficult to discuss, which is the question of the DTAs (Deferred Tax Assets ), assets for deferred taxes, arrangements by which the Portuguese State delivered hundreds of millions of euros « by hand kissed» as capital injection to the New Bank, besides this injection, without being able to exercise its ownership rights because it is written in the sales contract that the State may place hundreds of millions of euros but cannot turn that share into capital. And this is obviously the benefit of the private shareholder. Therefore, it is logical that the contract is ruinous, it is obvious that the State has already paid the bank and that it should be public and it is also obvious that the bank already meets capital ratios and that these requirements no longer exist because of the pandemic. My question is whether, after the inflamed speeches we have heard today in the House, when Parliament is called to vote again on whether or not the injection is made, we can prevent this capital injection by appealing to the coherence of the parties that in the past have maintained the New Bank's situation as it is today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u260	To request clarification, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u261	Mr. President, Mr. Duarte Alves, in 2017 we had two very clear options: either sold or liquidated the New Bank. The main conclusion of this audit report was that the sale of the New Bank saved the public interest in two perspectives: on the one hand, by avoiding the bank's liquidation and, on the other hand, by contributing to the reduction of systemic risk. It is the report that says this: the alternative was liquidation, which had gross costs for public finances. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u262	And it must be said clearly that who led the New Bank sales process was the Banco de Portugal. It was the Banco de Portugal, with two very clear leaders, Governor Carlos Costa and consultant Sérgio Monteiro, and was Dr. Sérgio Monteiro, Secretary of State of the PSD Government / CDS-PP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u263	Not that quality, sorry!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u264	... which was in the Parliamentary Inquiry Commission a few weeks ago and which made it clear that the sale defended the public interest. I will even quote it: "It was very important for the financial system to have an annual limit of contributions, because this gives certainty and stability. If the sale had not been made, the rating had not evolved as it evolved, the cost of the Portuguese debt had not evolved as it evolved and the positive impact on the public accounts that this debt reduction had not occurred either». But we know today that BES’ disease has passed to the New Bank. You know that, and you also know that PSD and CDS have promised a "good bank" and today we know that the New Bank has faced liquidity and capital difficulties since the first days of life. And he also knows that it was the PSD / CDS-PP government that promised to sell the New Bank in 2015. The investigation has already allowed us to know that this sale has failed because of the lack of confidence of interested parties in this portfolio of assets which we now call « quota capital mechanism ».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u265	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u266	Therefore, Mr President, we know today that this disease could and should have been avoided. That responsibility is not ours. Does it agree, as has already proved in this parliamentary inquiry, that the New Bank was born with problematic assets, insufficiently provided, and with capital below what is necessary, which today are responsible for the enormous losses that the New Bank is producing? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u267	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u268	Mr President, Mr Duarte Alves, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this issue up for discussion — this is no longer the first time we have discussed it and I suspect it will not be the last. I have some telegraphic questions to ask you. The first relates to the mantra of the Government and the Socialist Party and, curiously, the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, which is this: the main conclusion of the Court of Auditors is that the sale of the New Bank has saved financial stability. I would like Mr Duarte Alves to help the PS bench there and explain that this is not the main conclusion of the audit. There is no time in the audit when it is said that the main conclusion of the audit is this. In fact, I suggest that everyone have doubts that they will read the page(s) of conclusions and see if they are said anywhere. [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] I would also like to point out that the audit expressly states that the last sales decision maker is not the Banco de Portugal. The final sales decision maker is the Government of Portugal. Therefore, it is appropriate for the Government of Portugal to explain, in addition to saying « we do not agree with the Court of Auditors », to read there things that are not there and not to respond to what really matters. Secondly, Mr Duarte Alves defended, in fact, how does he defend the whole bank, public control and asked: 'if we pay the damages, why do we not stay with the bank? Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Duarte Alves, this audit has already said that if everything goes wrong and if at the end of all this the New Bank continues to be inviable and continues to cause damage, he will have what he wants,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u269	What if it makes a profit? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u270	... because the Portuguese State is committed to another capital injection of EUR 1600 million, when the bank will become fully public. I ask you if you support this conclusion and I ask you now whether the Government, which at the time governed on the basis of a left-wing parliamentary support coalition that the CFP was part of, has informed you that the Portuguese State had committed an injection of more than EUR 1600 million, if necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u271	In reply, Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u272	Mr President, I begin by thanking Mrs Mariana Mortágua, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira and Mrs Meireles. Regarding capital insufficiency is a finding that is preserved in this audit of the Court of Auditors, but that is in the mechanism itself, since it is not only the assets that are under the CCA that impact on bank accounts and public money injections, the entire activity of the bank also has these impacts. Also the €2 million prizes now decided by the bank administration, even if the Resolution Fund defuses this transfer to the New Bank, have impact on the public resources to be delivered to the New Bank. So what we said in the political statement, and we say again, is that no more money should be given to the New Bank and no more subtly found by the Government to do what is not in the Budget. On the questions put by Mrs Joana Sá Pereira, in fact there is a problem here when there is only one part of the conclusion. It is true that the Court of Auditors says that the stability of the financial system has been safeguarded, but any solution that would not lead to the bank's liquidation would have that effect. It has also failed to mention that what has been said is that the use of public resources has not been safeguarded through the privatisation process. Let us draw our attention again — and with this I also reply to Mrs Cecilia Meireles — to the following: why is there not an optimal use of public resources here? Because we're paying for a bank that's private. The state is paying but it is not having the benefit afterwards. One day the bank makes a profit, the profit is private and at that time, most likely, the bank will be handed over to any large international banking group. Therefore, what we are saying again is that the State cannot continue to pay for the « cleaning» of the New Bank, i.e. not all Portuguese can continue to pay for these dismissals, these premiums for administrators, it cannot continue this lack of respect even for public resources in the use of the CCA and other mechanisms, and ultimately not remain with the bank. So what we say is this: more than not going more money for the New Bank, what we need is to go get what is already there, we need to put those resources that have already been delivered to the country's service, placing the bank in a perspective of economic development, support for small businesses, investment support. in this sense, the solution we pointed out seven years ago, and which we again pointed out today, is the public control of the New Bank. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u273	For a political declaration, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 3 December, the CDS Parliamentary Group brought 10 questions to the plenary in a political statement on the vaccination process. At the time, we were criticized for being skeptical, when everything was already thought and guarded by Dr. Francisco Ramos' task force. Unfortunately, several of these issues have proved themselves to be real problems, partly because of the shortage of vaccines, which we do not control, but above all because of a poor organization and planning, which has only been resolved with the entry of Vice-Admiral Gouveia and Melo and their pragmatic approach to the process. Five months later, we returned to this forum for new vaccination warnings. On 30 April, DGS ( Directorate-General for Health) issued two updates to the rules for administering AstraZeneca and Jansen vaccines, restricting their application to more than 60 years and 50 years respectively. These updates arise after a new evaluation of the EMA (European Medicines Agency) regarding AstraZeneca, which has become indicated for all people over 18 years of age, concluding that their benefits in preventing COVID-19 greatly compensate for the risks(minimum) of thromboembolic events. in this sense, the AMA also recommends the second dose in the range of 4 to 12 weeks. The same assessment is made by the EMA to the Jansen vaccine — moreover, such as the American regulator, the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) — recommending use over 18 years of age or gender without further restrictions. The FDA also highlights that only 15 cases of thromboembolic phenomena have occurred in 8 million people vaccinated. In Portugal, no official pronouncement of Infarmed — National Authority for Medicinal Products and Health Products is known, I.P. and the DGS bases the age restriction on the Technical Commission for Vaccination, which, in turn, claims to be supported by the best scientific evidence - evidence that apparently is not in the possession of both the EMA and the FDA. Moreover, under the pretext of freedom of choice and underlining the context of uncertainty that still exists on these vaccines, the DGS is calling on citizens to decide to take the vaccine outside the specified age ranges, signing prior informed consent. But informed of what? of the doubts that the national authorities have, but are they not so strong that they assume as a firm rule? In the absence of a better explanation, this seems to be a political decision to disresponsible the health authority for any clinical problem, which thus becomes the responsibility of the informed citizen, equivalent to a scientist recognized by the New Opportunities. These rules do not make sense in the light of both EMA and FDA documents. The freedom of choice mentioned here is only an artifact, because it would, in fact, imply an alternative which DGS itself says does not exist yet. And the consequences are harmful because they contradict the objectives of the task force, in fact, the objectives of all of us, to increase resilience and free the economy. Therefore, Vice-Admirant Gouveia and Melo has already been warning, and I quote: "The age limit in both types of vaccines may condition the use of half a million vaccines in the second quarter and of 2, 7 million vaccines in the third, delaying the target of 70 % vaccination until the summer. Do not keep on seeking. ” If we are still in time of shortage of vaccines, what is the rational one to restrict even more those we have? If we want to open borders, promote tourism, restore hotel activity and restoration, festivals and shows, finally save the summer, then why are we self-limiting the pace of our immunity, especially when one of the vaccines in question involves only one dose and does not, at the time, have any risks of supply failure? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it seems relevant to me to make a second alert, this on the side effect of vaccination on primary health care professionals and activities. Physicians from health centres are being diverted from consultations for vaccination, which, according to a DGS standard, requires a doctor to be present. This provision has three negative consequences: it prevents the recovery of care activity in primary health care — the presence consultations fell 47% in the first two months of the year, comparing with 2020, once again leaving behind non-COVID patients — imposing additional scales on physicians, who are, in recognition of extreme fatigue, and inhibiting the agility of vaccination through community pharmacies that are prepared for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the Vaccination Against COVID-19, the hope of restoring health is concentrated as well fundamental and the economy as a vital activity, particularly in comparison to other countries, the hope of returning to normal as soon as possible. That is why we make these warnings today, because then they will only be inconsequential criticism.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u275	Member, the Bureau shall record three requests for clarification of the PSD, PS, and PCP respectively. Mr Moisés Ferreira's registration will not be considered because it was already done after the intervention was over. Today we have a very long journey. There are rules to comply with and, therefore, the honourable Members speak. Members of these three parliamentary groups I announced. You have the floor to make the first request for clarification, Mr Rui Cristina, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u276	Mr President, Madam Member, recently the task force coordinator for vaccination against COVID-19 has admitted that there may be a waste of more than 3 million vaccines due to the age limits imposed on AstraZeneca and Jansen vaccines. The argument is that such vaccines are absolutely safe from 60 years of age, in the case of AstraZeneca, and from 50 years, in the case of Jansen, and may not happen at lower ages. A curious argument, since this scheme imposed in Portugal is not shared by the health authorities of several other European Member States, but also a serious argument, insofar as it can result in the non-use of some million doses of vaccines already acquired by Portugal. The PSD has sought to clarify the scientific basis for these declarations. The Committee on Health heard the Technical Commission on Vaccination against Vaccination against VACID-19 yesterday, but the fact remains that it continues to show the basis for such vaccines that they cannot be administered to children under 60 and 50 years of age, depending on the cases. And the situation is serious, insofar as less than 1 million Portuguese have received full vaccination and more than 7 million have not yet received any dose, it is not understood that the vaccines available may not be administered without strict scientific criteria and weightier. That is why I ask you, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, whether you know the scientific evidence for the Portuguese authorities' decision to limit the administration of AstraZeneca vaccines only to people over 60 years of age and Jansen to people over 50 years of age. Have the Portuguese health authorities given credible scientific arguments not to extend those two vaccines to the whole population? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u277	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, recently I did not ask you how I wanted to respond to requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u278	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u279	So you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Susana Correia, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, from her speech I withdrew two sentences if I could quote: « increase resilience and free the economy » and « hope to return to normal as soon as possible ». Mrs. Member, it is important to remember that before we are attacked by this pandemic, health in Portugal has witnessed the greatest ever investment in the National Health Service ( SNS ) and it is not fair not to acknowledge this path that has been made of recovery and resilience, the increase in the capacity of the National Health Service. Therefore, at this stage where we no longer speak of the number of deaths, which we accompany, and save lives, we are at a stage of trust, trust in institutions, and even speak of the numbers that science can bear. This, for us, is a symbol that, indeed, the path that has been traced and that we praise — we all recognize the merit of the National Health Service, of human resources, and all the work that has been done of articulation and coordination in this area — is indeed a positive work. Much has also been said about pandemic, but we should not trivialize the word pandemic. What we are living in is a real tragedy that has devastated the world. Political decision makers, health services, authorities were all called upon to the primary mission of doing their best in the front line. It has been with great effort that we have been trying to respond continuously, with a stronger National Health Service, verified in the example given by the task force and the Technical Commission, that we had the opportunity to listen to this House, and we had the opportunity to confirm all the path of responsibility and the trust that we should place in these institutions. The services were reinvented: new circuits, new answers, testing capacity. Madam Member, the question I leave you with is: where was the CDS when in successive and successive State budgets we did the best, the most historic investment in the National Health Service? And is it now available to make this way of trust and recovery? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u281	Mr Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I also welcome you on the subject of the debate. The questions of vaccination are in fact on the agenda of our country. But the question, in the face of all the aspects which it invokes in its intervention, referring to difficulties in the vaccination process, difficulties which the CFP has long been raising,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u283	It can't be long because the rule is last week!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u284	... is that what is needed right now is to have solutions, solutions so that the vaccination process can be speeded up, solutions so that there is more capacity in the vaccination centres themselves, with the hiring of workers in the health area, which are necessary for the centres to function, and at the same time ensuring the functioning of primary health care. As you know, the CFP has put forward a number of proposals in this regard, because we believe it is essential that primary health care continue to work and ensure the follow-up of its patients. The CFP considers that vaccination should no longer be a business opportunity for private groups to obtain profit. Mrs Deputy, in fact, what has been raised about a set of vaccines which are currently being used in our country clearly makes it difficult to implement the vaccination plan and can even lead to delays. There is indeed a shortage of vaccines, but the question I wanted to put here was this: what does the CDS propose? It is that when the PCP here brought a proposal to diversify the purchase of vaccines, vaccines that are recognized by WHO and that our drug authority can of course authorize them to be used in our country, the CDS voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u285	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u286	In view of the fact that, in the face of reality and concrete solutions, they actually made it possible to speed up, in fact, to protect our population more quickly, which also made it possible to resume economic, social, cultural, sports activities in security, in short, to return life to the populations, the CDS does what? Vote against! It votes against, preventing these proposals from being adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u287	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u288	I will finish, Mr. President. Vote against and bring no concrete solution,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u289	Bring it, bring it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u290	...that, in fact, solves the problem, except to be delivered into the hands of the private, which is what the CDS always brings.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u291	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u292	Faced with concrete problems in the National Health Service, instead of reinforcing the response of the National Health Service is delivered to the profit of private groups. That's not the solution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u293	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, you have the floor to answer. I understand, because of the gestures you have changed, which you already know what the question Mr. Musa Ferreira would ask. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u294	Yes, Mr. President, I have an idea. It was already implied. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u295	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u296	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members. Mr Rui Cristina, Susana Correia and Paula Santos for the questions asked and implicitly to Mr Moisés Ferreira, in this exercise we are already getting used to. I would perhaps like to begin by answering Mrs Susana Correia, just because it is easier to address your question. Madam Member, when you want to make a political statement on investment in the SNS, I propose that you speak in your parliamentary group, bring this political statement here and we discuss this matter. If you don't mind, I'd like to discuss the subject I brought today, which is the topic of vaccination and so that's where I'm going to fix it. I ask you not to hurt me, but in fact, it's a little bit like when the person doesn't know the answer to the test and then answers something else. So I'll go first talk about vaccination. Trying, then, to respond to the other Mrs. Members on solutions, I think it has brought very concrete solutions here. What I came here to say is that there is exactly no scientific criterion—and with this I answer Mr Rui Cristina. Yesterday, all the members of the Health Committee heard the Technical Commission on Vaccination, to whom we asked : "What is the scientific information on which they base an option other than the EMA and the FDA? And the answer was: "We are based on the best scientific information. Do not keep on seeking. ” We entered here in a circular reasoning. Indeed, from him I do not know how to leave and, therefore, I would say no, there is no scientific evidence and perhaps the first solution was, exactly, we will leave this and use without restriction the vaccines approved for any age group and for any kind and not waste the millions of vaccines we have in our possession. First solution! Very simple, nothing to complicate. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, even before raising patents or, Mrs. Paula Santos, even before making unjustified purchases of vaccines that are not even approved by any regulator,... [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] ...maybe, a good idea was to use these instead of lying out or leaving after. This was the first note I'd like to make. The second note is that it also brought some solutions, yes, to the SNS. What I came to say here was that the SNS, particularly primary health care, are not able to give the answer to the recovery of the present consultations, their care, which is their first mission. And we also heard in the Health Committee either the FNAM (National Medical Federation) or the SIM ( Independent Medical Union), saying that doctors were overburdened with scales, because they are either diverted to the "covidary" or for vaccination and cannot sit down to do the consultations they should be doing. The question is, does it really have to be that way? In addition to the vaccination centres where these doctors, once again because of the DGS, have to be relocated, would it not be possible to use other networks, such as community pharmacies? It's not the big profits! I didn't even talk to private hospitals, these big profit eaters. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] Mrs. Deputy, I didn't even talk about it. I spoke in the pharmacy at the corner of your house which, perhaps, can perfectly vaccinate some people and give a leak, if we use the vaccines well. That's all I proposed. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] So, yes, I came to propose solutions; yes, I came to propose things that have already been discussed. As I said, I only came to make warnings to, later, not say « nobody warned» or « come to criticize now because they have nothing better to do». The spirit is the best possible, it is to contribute to this process running well, as has already happened on 3 December. If you want to hear, great; if you don't want to, we're sorry!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u297	Vaccination is more than vaccination!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u298	You have the floor for a political statement by the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u299	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal is experiencing an absolutely decisive moment with regard to the definition of priorities in public investment, which will be decisive in the future of our country, at various levels, and on which our quality of life and the quality of life of future generations depends. This is undoubtedly an opportunity which cannot be wasted or, less so, scattered. However, the Portuguese continue to be confronted with the use of public funds in everything less than the common good, either in the holes of mismanagement of the bank, in financing highly harmful industries and activities for the planet or in activities based on cruelty against animals. The examples are unfortunately more than many and those who persist will only continue to feed injustice, precariousness, poverty, the destruction of the country's natural resources and even the anti-democratic populist movements that continue to exist. On the one hand, we now proclaim what the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan) is the priority of combating climate change, but on the other hand, investment continues to be channelled to activities that destroy our natural resources and biodiversity. The conversation is one, but the action is completely different, as we heard in the previous debate, which even brings into question human rights, as in the case of Odemira, or ignores essential investments in the face of the serious health, social and economic crisis we live in. The question is this: after all, what is the priority for this government? This investment strategy must be continued after the government, decades after decade, it must be urgently reviewed and what is now important to need, as the NAP has been systematically alerting, is whether or not we are going to make this a time of change. This strategy must begin with regard to environmental protection, and this must necessarily be in line with economic development and agricultural practices with responsible management of resources. We cannot continue to accept that large agricultural enterprises continue to absorb millions and millions of euro from the funds for agricultural production — indeed, much of the funds for Portugal! — to develop a type of production focused on numbers, exploiting our resources beyond natural limits, as well as the cheap and vulnerable human labour, together with a total decharacterization of our territory and what we have, which is our natural heritage. If we continue to insist on competing in this way with nature and ecosystems, exploring more than they have to give us and interfering in their fragile natural balance, the results will be catastrophic and the signs are already in sight of everyone. It can be seen that in 2020 the RDP ( Rural Development Plan ) has allocated only EUR 3 million to invest in organic agriculture, this when we know that organic and organic agriculture, biodynamic agriculture or permaculture are increasingly developed solutions that guarantee healthy food for consumers, with lower environmental impacts. However, the preservation of biodiversity and the fight against climate crisis continue to have sub-investment in our country, not having a serious investment in these sectors that encourages producers to follow this path and to move to more sustainable production models, which promote and support good practices, the management of agricultural habitats and ecosystem services, which look at our sea and forests, for example, as natural resources and not as mere economic appendices. Only in this way will we be able to boost the transition that is imposed on a more just and humanized development model. However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we have heard every day, by non-governmental organizations, are the complaints, repeated and frequent, of the lack of money for species conservation programmes, for habitat recovery, for the depollution of our rivers and rivers, among many other examples. However, past the shock wave caused by the Tower Bela massacre, the government soon invested more than 10 million euros in the hunting sector. And you don't stay here! Very few are those who know that taxpayers' money funds projects with pompous names such as the Centre of Competences for Management and Sustainability of Cinegetic and Biodiversity Species, which, under the mantle of sustainability and biodiversity, has as its mission to support and promote the hunting sector itself, cannibalizing very important resources that are diverted and that should be committed to studying and understanding the impacts of human activity on habitat conservation and promoting biodiversity. Will there be a better example of waste of public funds? Oh, my God! By chance, there's and, you know, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is called Tauromachia, an anachronistic activity that continues to feed itself from public funds to survive, as if it were essential to the country, and for which we continue to see many millions of euros of the CAP (common agricultural policy) being diverted to the stock of livestock. And, as if the CAP funds did not arrive, we still see the professionals of the Tauromacy eating the same "bolo" of the culture. Even this week, the Minister for Agriculture — the same one that started the previous debate on the economic impact rather than on human rights or sustainable transition in agriculture — said in this House that Portugal is a reference to animal welfare. Whoever knows the reality of the country and has been attentive to the recent and commendable research work of the media itself knows that this statement could not be further from the truth. This is no longer talking about the difficulty that we face every year in this same House in trying to increase the funds for animal protection, often without any success. It could be to laugh if it wasn't to cry! It is that biodiversity and animals are not protected by the law of the bullet, ecosystems are not preserved by continuing to finance polluting activities and the country does not develop either if we continue to use the same recipe. It is not just in the banking sector that the government has to choose who gives the hand. With regard to the fight against our lives, the fight against climate change, but also how we relate to the other beings inhabiting this planet, the government and Parliament have to make their choices, which they have to go to the 21st century. We all want a more just, more humanized and healthier society, but for this, taxpayers' money has to be invested and used in what, indeed, is the country's interest, in the resilience of the territory and populations and in the commitment to the transition to a green economy. This moment is absolutely crucial. We know where to invest and leave out anachronistic activities that at nothing serve the interests of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u300	The Bureau shall record four entries for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u301	All together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u302	All right. Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, since 2015, that the Socialist Party and the Government have been increasing public investment on a sustained basis and have done so with the same rigour that they have managed to balance public accounts. The first information I wanted to give you, Mrs Deputies, to you and to this House, is that we will continue. We want more and better public investment, but always supported by more and better budgetary rigour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u304	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u305	She said that there was little public investment, particularly in European programmes and investment funds for climate change, but in view of this intervention, I do not think she has read the programmes that have reached her hands. The honourable Member said that the PRR's $3 billion is low. I can even agree with you, but what you can't do is get to this House and tell only half the story. And half of the story is always the one in which we say « I want more investment in this area and in this area ». Well, I'll tell you why that's half the story. It's just that the funds he's talking about are not infinite, they're finite. It is money that has value and, in order to be serious and to have a serious and rigorous discussion, as the Portuguese deserve, the honourable Member has to say where she cuts. If you want more money in the climate transition, you have to tell where it cuts in health. What hospital does it stop doing?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u306	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u307	If you cut into education, what school does it stop doing? If you cut off on the highway, what road does it stop? That's what you have to say, Mrs. Member, is the other half of the story you have to tell. But, Mrs. Member, I'm going to give you another information. With regard to the multiannual investment programme of European funds, particularly 2021 - 2027, we are talking about 60 % of the investment of this money in the climate transition. Do you still think little, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u308	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u309	I shall conclude, Mr President. The question I leave you with is that, Mrs. Member, which is the other half of the story. Where does the honourable Member stop spending? Is it in health, education or social support? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u310	You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u311	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I would like to begin by stressing the importance of the issue of options for public investment that has brought to this plenary session. For the CFP, the necessary response to the problems and needs of the country with regard to the modernisation and development of its infrastructure, for the mobilization of all available resources, from the State budget to the Community funds or other forms of financing, is a response subject to a sovereign development strategy that rejects shares arising from the euro, contrary to the development of the country. It is a policy which sets public investment levels above 5 % of GDP (gross domestic product), without which there will be no lasting economic growth above 3 %, and which responds to delays in infrastructure and equipment: from primary health care to hospitals; from support to productive activity to energy and communications; from new airport to rail network; from the public network of day care to equipment and support to the elderly, linked with the reality of existing social structures; from increased public transport to housing or to the guarantee of environmental protection. It is a policy that dynamizes national production, replacing imports into strategic goods such as food, in which support for productive sectors, family agriculture, is of fundamental importance. However, the situation facing the country is not in response to the policy of the PS government, but it is also not in response to the policy that has been followed for decades, even though the country and the government have all the tools available to provide the most immediate response. They insist on not doing so, opting to give priority to managing the deficit to the detriment of measures and investments that are unacceptable. The question that we put to you, Mrs Deputies, is the following: it does not consider it urgent and indispensable to have the political courage to reverse these options to face inclusive policies and problems, to break with the right-wing policy — I repeat, to break with the right-wing policy! — start a course of true recovery and open the way to development and social progress? It is that these powerful interests that you mentioned, of agribusiness, of economic groups, of great property and of intensive and superintensive production, really like to hear about those who are proud not to be on the left or on the right. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u312	For clarifications, Mrs Sofia Matos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is irresistible not to start by bringing you an absolutely irreversible fact, that the fact that this government delivers to the investment, year after year, successively, is less than the fact that it was applied between the years 2011 and 2015, for which we all know of the difficulties this country has experienced. The truth is in sight of all, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. The investment plan for the 2020 railway, which in the year 2020 only had 19 % of the investment implemented. The government has carried out the 2020 State Budget and the amending budget. Not even in times of unparalleled catastrophe, the government has been able to fulfill what it has promised the Portuguese. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the state must have a basic level of investment. And investment, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just passing checks, it is having the ability to undertake, it is having the ability to do and, above all, having the ability to execute and carry out. It's a lot more, sirs. Members, from going to Spain to buy scraps that others no longer want to use, it is to choose investments that are reproductive and that put productivity above all. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, every year the government ceases to execute at least EUR 1 billion in response to what it foresees and promises in the State budgets. From now on it begins to be a standard: the government projects something in the State budget, then lets a little fall into the Stability Programme, as happened this month, a little more when the current year is estimated to be carried out in the next State budget and the budget execution reveals, at the end of the year, that neither the revised amounts are executed. These facts say a lot about this government, they say a lot about its priorities, but they also say a lot about you. Members and the parliamentary groups who have subsequently supported and made these phantom budgets submitted by this Government, as is the case with the NAP, Mrs Deputy. That is why, as is said in my own country — and I shall end up, Mr President — at the first they all fall, the second they fall the most reckless and the third they fall only who wants. And by the way, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen will continue to fall. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u314	For the last request for clarification, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, in her political statement, has brought us a number of very diverse subjects, and most of them are currently important in the political debate which is quite relevant. In fact, Portugal has presented a number of problems which have been referred to, particularly in the environmental area, in the agricultural area, in the protection of natural habitats, where Portugal is still too much of what would be important, but the essential issue on all these matters has much to do with how the problems that have been addressed, namely the type of agricultural production we have in our country and the environmental and other consequences thereof. I wonder if we solve this with structural structural changes in the production model—how, in fact, it has defended the Left Block over the years—or if we solve this only at rates, which have too often pernicious logic, which puts the populations, and largely leaves the big producers practically intact. It seems to us that this is an essential point of demarcation of differences in the way we look, for example, at climate change, at the transition to a fairer production model that we all want to deal with these climate changes, but this cannot be done without talking about changes, of roots, of the production model. I therefore leave that question to you because over the years and, especially in this House, we have realized that on the part of the NAP there has often been no such advance as would be necessary in this production model. That was the question I left. On public investment and on the question of the transition to fairer models and climate change — and I shall finish, Mr President — I would like to ask you, Mrs Deputy, whether the NAP accompanies this reinforcement and this idea that public investment is necessary not only to deal with climate change but also to the challenges we have, caused by the pandemic itself, particularly in transport, an essential point for us to make this struggle, and in particular in the railway, which has been abandoned for too many decades and needs a very robust strengthening at the moment. Madam Member, I wonder if the NAP accompanies this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u316	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u317	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions you asked me. Of course, Mr. Hugo Oliveira, on your questions, I do not think you really paid attention to my speech, because I gave very clear examples of where the NAP would choose to cut, and we do not need to go to health. In fact, in health, public investment... [[Mr Hugo Oliveira's laughs.]] The honourable Member laughs, but the public investment has so far been captivated. We can give another name to austerity, and we have been attentive to what the government has done and what it has not done. And there is no shortage of examples: it is the EUR 10 million of the hunt, which your government has still given to the sector by hand, to be the sub-investment in organic agriculture — and if you were careful to listen to it — of EUR 3 million. This is not the way the paradigm is changed and farmers are supported to have good practice. As far as agribusiness is concerned — in which your Government has also opted for once again to extend its hand and to continue to give this investment — we do not need to stay there either. I understand that it is a lexicon that is often alien to you, but just look at what the bank debate is. For example, about the many million euros that have gone to the bank, the NAP has made it very clear that, for us, this is where the government has to cut and not in the well-being of the people and even less in health or education. On the issues raised by the CFP — and I thank you from now on, Mr President — I would like to say, in a very clear way, that for the NAP it is clear that we consider it urgent to break up with the policies that have been developed. In the case of the environment, it is a policy that has to be transversal to the different political spectra. Mr President, when we talk about breaking with only the right, we must not forget that many times left-wing conservatism, which has so often supported intensive and superintensive agriculture, has not contributed to this transition either. And we heard the rejection. When the NAP comes to withdraw, for example, exemptions from intensive and superintensive livestock sectors, all political forces have voted against. Therefore, Mr President, we must ensure that the environment must be cross-cutting to the concerns of all political sectors, not just some. For this debate it will certainly count on the NAP, because we will not steal from it. Mrs Sofia Matos referred to an issue to which I cannot fail to twist. It is very nice to come here to talk about the State Budget and the Abstention when the NAP brought forward its causes in the State Budget. Interestingly, when it is to give the PS a hand to reduce 15-year debates or reduce electoral rights, the PSD also never steals. Therefore, Mrs. Member, sometimes it is better to be careful of what is stated. With regard to this debate and the implementation of the funds—because, in this case, the PS and PSD, the central bloc, are very friendly—, what we have found is that there is a successive de-investment, government after government, in different matters. And the PSD is not very different from the PS in terms of intensive and superintensive agriculture and the policies it has followed. Therefore, the appeal we leave to the PSD is that once and for all it begins to vote in favour of measures that seek to make environmental policies more sustainable. Finally, and obviously with the tolerance of the Bureau, because I would not fail to reply to Mrs Isabel Pires, I meant that the NAP made clear, from the very first moment it entered this House and in what its policies have been, that there is a paradigm change that has to happen in the way we have developed and we have grown the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u318	Thank you, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u319	The economy cannot continue to subjugate environmental interests or animal protection. Therefore, either through rates or through incentives to the economic model, it is essential that the way in which the country is developing and growing is changing. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u320	For a political statement, Mrs Ana Passos, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For a long time, the sea is a Portuguese identity that prides us and transports us in time from the brave navigators, who have ventured « By seas never sailed». This immemorial relationship that we maintain with the sea cannot let us remain closed in the past, but rather serve as an inspiration to establish another type of more rational link, recognizing this sector as one of the main strategic assets for the future development of the country, especially now in the context of pandemic, where the intelligent use of the ocean and its natural resources can have a decisive role in promoting the well-being of society and its economic development. We welcome the fact that the current Government continues to give the sea the central importance it owes to it by presenting a proposal for a National Strategy for the Sea for the period 2021 - 2030, which places an innovative approach, integrated and fully aligned with the requirements of the present times. To highlight that this strategic document presents a vision based on the promotion, and I quote, « a healthy ocean to enhance sustainable blue development, the well-being of Portuguese and affirm Portugal as leader in ocean governance », supporting scientific knowledge and thus fulfilling a goal enshrined in the XXII Constitutional Government Programme. It should be noted that the current proposal of the National Strategy for the Sea presents guiding principles perfectly aligned with the UN Agenda, with the Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development 2021 - 2030, with the European Ecological Pact, with the Integrated Maritime Policy of the European Union and with the recent European Biodiversity Strategy. This alignment with international instruments will contribute to common objectives, in order to frame the policies of the sea and to strengthen the geopolitical and geostrategic positioning of Portugal. It should be stressed that the strategy is focused on 10 major objectives for the decade, which, in turn, are complemented by 13 priority areas of intervention that strengthen them, contributing to the realization of them. Therefore, because of the relevance of these dimensions, let me highlight some of the objectives: to combat climate change and pollution and restore ecosystems; to promote employment and the circular and sustainable blue economy; to decarbonize the economy and promote renewable energies and energy autonomy; to stimulate scientific knowledge, technological development and blue innovation; and, finally, to increase the education, training, culture and literacy of the ocean. But since it is not enough to define objectives, it is also important to evaluate and monitor the implementation of the strategy, so specific and quantifiable targets have been established. of these, I underline the targets for waste management from maritime activities, with strategies to promote the use of reusable packages; the goal of classifying marine protected areas in 30 % of national marine waters, with one third of these areas with total protection, thus accompanying the international movement of enlargement of the marine protected areas network, in order to meet the Sustainable Development Goal No. 14 of Agenda 2030 ; the goal of ensuring employment growth in the national blue economy; the strengthening of the involvement of producer organisations in the sustainable management of each fishing stock, promoting effective co-management of fisheries with the various stakeholders; and the goal of increasing the national aquaculture production to 25 000 tonnes per year, among many others. A highly valued dimension in this strategy is the decarbonization of the economy, with the development of cleaner production processes, increasing its efficiency in the use of resources and energy and ensuring sustainable use of natural resources, within the regenerative limits of ecosystems, safeguarding due environmental protection. We must not forget that the ocean contributes more than 50 % of the oxygen we breathe and that its continental coastal areas, which include marine prairies, macroalgae forests, sands and phytoplankton masses, constitute important carbon sinks, which are fundamental to the maintenance of the planet's life. It should be noted that, even last month, the PS Parliamentary Group presented a draft resolution which aims to increase the protection of these coastal ecosystems. It should be noted that, in the current context of pandemic crisis, the development of the sea economy and job creation are obvious priorities in which it is important to bet, as it is demonstrated that the size of the sea economy is significant in the ranking of the main sectors of the national economy with potential for growth. It should be noted that the Recovery and Resilience Plan, one of the various financial instruments that will be used to implement the strategy, has entered EUR 252 million for research-related investments, blue economy, fisheries security and development of the Azores Sea Cluster. This appropriation is also added to EUR 300 million from the next multiannual financial framework and from science funds to which companies and institutions can apply. A final note to stress that economic recovery in the post-COVID goes by redefining our model of economic development and, above all, our behaviors and lifestyles. To this end, it will be necessary to involve all, young and less young, in a process of transformation based on scientific knowledge, where ocean literature will have a fundamental and decisive role for the maintenance and survival of many species, including human species. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u322	Madam Member, the Bureau records the registration of five Members. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u323	And also the Left Block, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u324	The Left Block was not registered, but this time we are going to start from the principle that someone has not taken note. in this case, six Mrs are registered. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond, Mrs Ana Passos? Three to three, six to zero, zero to six?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u325	Mr. President, I answer three to three.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u326	All right, Mrs. Deputy. To begin the first series of three requests for clarification, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor. Ms. Catarina Rocha Ferreira ( PSD ). — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we begin by congratulating the Socialist Party for bringing to this Parliament the topic of the sea, so relevant to Portugal. In fact, this is not the first time that this issue is dealt with in this kind of debate, which in itself is quite positive. However, what surprises us is that the speech is so far from the reality of our country, because the truth is that the model of growth of Portugal by the sea, which we so aspire to, remains a mirage. And not even the revival that the Recovery and Resilience Plan has had over the sea heals the lack of ambition and freedom in recent years. But still, we are pleased that they have heard the PSD and that, in the second version of the PRR, a chapter dedicated to the sea has been introduced. It is also equally important for Portugal to renew, as it is doing, its National Strategy for the Sea. in this regard, Mrs Deputy, I would like to leave you a few questions. Firstly, what are the first measures to be implemented at the level of the Green and Digital Fisheries Transition through the EUR 21 million provided for in the RPP? What is the amount for the modernisation of the fleet and the recovery of the fisheries sector? Secondly, what is the estimated economic impact of the Blue Economy Infrastructure Network, with EUR 87 million, on the economy of the sea? And what are the scenarios in terms of investment recovery? More: as you should know, the marine industries have already shown interest in investing more than 5000 million in Portugal by 2030 in sectors ranging from ports and from shipbuilding to fishing and processing of blue fish and biotechnology to tourism. However, they need financial and administrative unlockings. Do you think Portugal will have this freedom of choice and support private investment in the sea by 2030? Because speaking about the sea is this, Mrs Deputies, it is to bring numbers and give concrete answers, otherwise it does not pass a beautiful speech without any connection to reality. in this sense, and to conclude, I would like to ask you, Mrs Deputy, if you think that the National Maritime Strategy will be able to give Portugal the tools to be a country with sustainable growth and development in the sea. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u327	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Ana Passos, 97% of the national territory is sea. We have one of the largest European continental platforms with enormous potential for use: in the renewal of fishing, in the renewal of ports, new trends in electricity, in tourism, in climate, in energy, in blue biotechnology, in the production of aquaculture... The sea economy currently represents about 3 % of GDP, which is indeed miserable, taking into account all the potential that exists and that we have to exploit and exploit. Sea bet has been null: lack of focus, lack of strategy to the government, a promise year after year always postponed, there are no funds or those that are allocated to the sea are even very few, becoming less than 1% of the total European funds. The sea is a strategic sector for Portugal that could put us at the forefront and, again, on the world map, but for the PS and for the government has not been a priority. It's nice to talk about the sea, but in practice, it's zero! In fact, Mrs Deputy, we are losing a unique opportunity. The sea and the blue economy could be one of the keys, a cleavage to boost Portugal's true economic growth as well, but sea funds are a drop in the ocean. Otherwise, let's see : PRR — EUR 252 million for the sea industry,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u329	If it were the CDS putting your hand on that money...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u330	... 10 times less than it was necessary or intended by the Strategic Council for the Economics of the Sea of the Portuguese Confederation, as they intended to invest about 5000 million by 2030. Mrs Ana Passos, of the EUR 252 million, with only EUR 20 million, because only EUR 252 million of the PRR are truly allocated to the real economy of the sea, how does the Socialist Party think to boost the economy of the sea?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u331	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, from the PAN Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u332	Mr President, first of all, I thank the honourable Member for the matter that has brought us. It is a very important theme for our country; however, we must not fail to mention that the strategy is quite disappointing in what concerns the way it once again looks at the sea. On the other hand, if we stick to the strategy and cross it with the PRR itself, the fact that there appears an axis that refers to the economy of the sea and not to the sea gives the priority of the Socialist Party for the country itself in this matter. It is that looking at the sea can not only be in an extractive perspective of mining in deep sea or even exploitation of fish that still exists in the sea, their biodiversity in an economic perspective, but rather in the preservation of marine species, which are in strong decline, in the depollution of the oceans. in this sense, in the strategy itself, it is mentioned that, and I quote, « it is intended to enhance the contribution of the sea to the economy of the country, the prosperity and well-being of all Portuguese people, to respond to the great challenges of the decade and to strengthen the position and visibility of Portugal in the world». Well, that says it all. In fact, outside there was preservation of biodiversity. We know that the sea has an absolutely essential carbon dioxide potential and, if we do not take measures aimed at preserving it, we will be jeopardizing the balance of ecosystems. Moreover, if we do not encourage the implementation of measures to safeguard marine species in industrial fisheries, we will be witnessing a dizzying decline in them. in this sense, the question we ask the PS is whether it is available to revisit those that are its options with respect to the implementation of both the PRR and the Great Options aligned with the State Budget, so that the strategy that is on the paper materializes itself in more effective measures of protection of our oceans.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u333	In order to answer this first set of questions, Mrs Ana Passos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Ms. Ana Passos ( PS ). — Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, Mr Pedro Morais Soares and Mrs Inês de Sousa Real for her questions. I would like to inform Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira that the National Strategy for the Sea is not a budgeted document, it has no budget, it is a strategy, it defines paths. This is the third National Strategy for the Sea that Portugal has and, like its predecessors, will be a strategic document with guidelines for the whole country and will not, as it has never had, have an associated budget envelope; nor is it a strategy for the State or the Government, a strategy for Portugal. Its implementation will depend on public and private investments. The PRR is one of several financial instruments that will be used to implement the strategy. In its component 10, dedicated to the sea, there are 252 million euros, I repeat, 252 million euros, all of them projects dedicated to the sea. They cover: the creation of a blue hub with a network of technological parks in port areas dedicated to the promotion of the blue economy; a programme to support the ecological transition in fisheries, which will finance new equipment in vessels, fishing line industrial facilities; the construction of a multi-purpose naval platform for the Portuguese Navy, which will serve as scientific research, environmental monitoring and maritime rescue and for the Cluster do Mar dos Azores, including a technological park and the construction of a regional research ship. In addition to these EUR 252 million, companies in the sea economy may also use other transversal support provided for in the PRR, such as green agendas/ alliances for business innovation under component 5 or investments in qualifications and skills under component 6 only to refer to two particularly targeted for the private sector. It also adds the next multiannual financial framework with EUR 300 million and science funds. Now, it's important to run, that's right. With regard to fisheries, this proposal for a strategy seeks to cover the main sectors of the sea economy, leaving no sector outside the strategy. In fisheries, there is a commitment to innovation, improving working conditions on board, restructuring the fleet, renewing it in energy and digital efficiency to promote its economic and environmental sustainability, rather than betting on more vessels or increasing the quantities fished. On the question that Mrs Inês de Sousa Real put to me, about whether we are available to revisit the PRR and the Great Plan Options, I meant that the Great Plan Options also reflect what is reflected in the National Strategy for the Sea, such as all environmental concerns and even the issue of protected marine areas. I do not know whether the honourable Member has had the opportunity to accompany the hearings we have made in the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea to different entities, where a proposal for a marine protected area, quite innovative, has been presented... [[In the meantime, he re-chaired Vice-President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u334	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy. Ms. Ana Passos ( PS ). —... an area based on scientific knowledge and the involvement of all the protagonists of the region. But later on, I'll complete the answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u335	Continuing requests for clarification to Mrs Ana Passos, Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u336	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Passos, I would like to congratulate you and welcome you for bringing up such a topic relevant to our country, taking into account the country that we have with this strategic importance, which is the sea. In fact, and agreeing with you, what is at stake, what the National Strategy for the Sea brings us here is a way, but the strategy of the sea that the PS Government defends will never be a real strategy without considering the fisheries sector and fishermen. Honestly, Mrs Deputies, there is an insanitary contradiction here with regard to the strategy that has brought us here and that which we should also be talking about today, which would have to respond to the problems of Portuguese fishing and fishermen. Therefore, the strategy that you have defended does not respond to what you should respond to. I'm going to ask three very simple questions. In fact, considering that she is a Member elected by the Algarve, I calculate that she was waiting for the CFP to ask her these three questions. In view of the public funds, from the State budget to the Community funds, is the PS available to accompany the CFP in the defence of the renewal of the national fishing fleet, which is fundamental and decisive for the safety and working conditions of fishermen? Another issue has to do with investments in national ports and batches. Do you not think it is important to make an investment that responds to the conditions of degradation and abandonment in which national infrastructures are located in terms of ports and lots? And now, taking into account the initiative of the CFP, which entered last week, on investments in the ports of Algarve, being a Member elected by the Algarve, is available to follow this important initiative of the CFP? Portugal has permanent dredging needs in our ports. What we have said successively is that the country has the capacity to respond to its dredging needs, particularly through the creation of a public entity that would enable it to respond to this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u337	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u338	in this sense, regarding dredgings, a drama that lives in Portugal, I ask you what is the solution that the PS presents.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u339	For a request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the ENP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u340	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Mrs Ana Passos on bringing the debate to the issue of the National Strategy for the Sea. The sea that has united the world, which, in its immensity, hides natural riches that are yet to be discovered, precisely by this immensity, but also by its complexity, as an ecosystem, very difficult to allow the human being to discover all its essence with the speed that some would like. Aware that all human activities depend on ecosystem functions, Greens have been alerting over the years to the threats that various habitats have suffered, the increase in temperature and the change in climate patterns that they feel. These ecosystems, more often than they would be expected, are not properly accompanied, cared for and defended, are not monitored activities around them, so that they can be preserved and survive the need to innovate, build and develop. Therefore, after our endless desire to explore the mineral resources on land, we see the possibility and the desire to explore the mineral resources at the bottom of the sea. And, therefore, the PS and the Government, in the strategy that the honourable Member, today, here, once again, defends the doubt, whether or not they live in. If, on the one hand, the most diverse conservation plans for biodiversity, ecosystems, nature, plans and climate change mitigation plans arise, on the other hand, proposals, challenges and intentions to exploit natural resources in an uncontrolled manner and without any planning, both on land and at sea. Mrs Deputy, do you agree with the insistence on the development of finite natural resources exploration plans, which leave a trail of atrocious destruction? Would it not be more advisable for the country to know first of all what natural wealth it possesses? Is it a destroyed country that we want to leave for future generations?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u341	For a request for clarification, Mr Ricardo Vicente, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u342	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Passos, in the new National Strategy for the Sea, the Government says a lot about business, entrepreneurship and raw materials and very little about work, wages and employment. In fisheries, as important as conservation of marine ecosystems, fishing effort and traceability of fish are decent working conditions and fair wages for fishermen. But neither in the Strategy for the Sea nor among the millions of the Recovery and Resilience Plan for the economy of the sea, work with rights is a priority. There is no single measure in the Government strategy to ensure skilled work and to combat precarious fishing. Briefly, we shall vote on a draft of the Block in this regard. Question: are the PS and the other parliamentary groups available to follow it? Labour abuse in many ports and boats must be eliminated, where, in a similar way, what happens in agriculture, there are abuses against the rights of migrant workers, who also live here in overcrowded houses and warehouses, under outrageous conditions. In order to ignore legal qualification requirements, the Government invented the category of seafarer practising, to legalize the current practice of recruiting migrants without adequate training, as legalization of containers in Odemira. Another urgency that escapes the government, in the midst of so many pumps and circumstances of bazaars and advertisements, is the eradication of precariousness in State Laboratories. After four years since the beginning of PREVPAP (An extraordinary programme for the regularization of precarious links in public administration ), dozens of precarious researchers continue to wait for their integration into the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ). Some of them have been working precariously for 20 years and continue to perform functions essential to the functioning of the Institute. In the Left Block, instead of extractivism and labour abuse, priorities for the sea go through decent working conditions and knowledge that ensures the preservation of the marine environment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u343	In response to these requests for clarification, Mrs Ana Passos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u344	Madam President, I begin by thanking Mr João Dias, Mrs Mariana Silva and Mr Ricardo Vicente for their questions. In reply to Mr John Dias, I would like to say that he may have been a little disappointed about the diplomas presented by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Even last week, we presented a diploma concerning dredgings in the Algarve, where we propose the creation of a specific plan for the Algarve, given the special natural conditions that we have there, specifically in the Formosa River and in the Alvor River. There you can verify, in addition to this recommendation, many others related to canal dredgings, canal maintenance, restoration of the donar cord, etc. I believe that next week it will be under discussion in the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory. With regard to fishing and fisheries-related issues, I have already said, Mr President, that in the field of innovation, the improvement of working conditions on board, the restructuring of the fleet and its renewal in energy and digital efficiency, building on the pillars of the PRR which are of energy and digital transition. However, I wanted to tell you that, in the National Strategy for the Sea, there is already a strong bet on aquaculture, and not only on offshore aquaculture, on land aquaculture, as well as on aquaculture in transition areas. This strong investment in aquaculture, this strong bet on aquaculture will complement the issue of fisheries and ease the fishing effort a little, also enabling the recovery of natural ecosystems and fishing stocks. With regard to the issue of non-living resources and the exploitation of natural resources, what is envisaged in the National Strategy for the Sea is to favour the production of oxygen and drinking water, rather than fossil resources. In the minerals, it bets itself on the geological mapping of the soil and the marine subsoil of the Continental Platform. This exploitation is obviously conditional on the development of scientific knowledge and technology that ensures the mitigation and elimination of impacts on ecosystems, biodiversity and established economic activities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u345	For a political declaration, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u346	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « They will come at night », this is how the residents of Zmar, and those who will be owners of various spaces within the same place, expressed today how the authorities carried out the relocation of migrants in Odemira. « They would come at night, when no one expected, to do so. Today, we agreed with an additional concern: with migrants explaining that they had come during the night for labour and also for religious reasons." Shame! A country where it is more important than those who are rejoined to do so according to their will, while those who are our owners, our men and our women living in this territory are left behind, as if they were disposable. « They will come at night to occupy our houses and to occupy part of this establishment, without anyone telling us anything». This pattern of government action is not uncommon. In 2020, we approved in this House a special regime for expropriations and administrative services. The State that does not know how many buildings it has is the same State that wants to expropriate at will, without any problem and without any limitation. The State that does not know or can invent its real estate, even though in 2009 this House ordered it to do so, is the same State that wishes to expropriate Portuguese goods, pay their taxes and fulfil its obligations. What is happening in Zmar is undoubtedly a human rights problem, but it is also a human rights problem, which we should know, what happens when a government authorizes 300 containers for these migrants to live. Where was the human rights conversation, when the Socialist Party, with the complicity of the extreme left, allowed containers to be used as mere places of agglomeration of people? Oh, my God! Today, they scream, but one and two years ago they allowed these men and women to live under these conditions! Now, hands in the air, tears in the face, but, when we look, we know that what left today is to do this one case, just to say that agriculture is the fault, the owners are the culprits, the Portuguese of good is the culprits. This is what we have in Portugal, in Zmar and in many areas of Alentejo and Ribatejo. We have a government unable to manage a problem that knew existed for years and now reaches the owners and says: « My friends, give us your houses, give us your property and give us your lives». We must understand when we have to act for those we are here to defend. And there was no negotiation with the residents. Just a simple conversation, a contact with them to realize that the request was made—because no agreement was reached with the residents—it was actually a ghost, because there was never negotiation, there was never agreement, there was never any intention to negotiate. There is a unilateral declaration by the Government, a request that is illegal and unconstitutional, and the arrival will require it to be reversed because it is an unacceptable attack on human rights. For this reason, tomorrow the arrival will again enter the Supreme Administrative Court, to ask the State, the responsible State, to reverse the decision of this government, to allow houses, housing and property to be required. If, for these parties, it does not matter the suffering of those populations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u347	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u348	...we will be there, saying that a court has to reverse this decision and that a Prime Minister is not the absolute lord of the territory. We will also ask the Attorney-General of the Republic to monitor how this request has been made and how it is still being addressed in Portugal. It is that, My Lords, it is not enough to knock your hand on your chest and say that we have a liberal constitution, which defends private property, and that we are the country of the world that first defended property, if we are there, on the first line, to beat palms, when people are expropriated of their goods and their lands are completely put on the mercy of others. The immigration we have in Portugal is legal and illegal, but that is not what we are dealing with in this case, and all countries have it, which we can never, what we must not, what we have no right to say is that these men and women, who have come to Portugal and must be welcomed with dignity, are worth more than our own, who are here working and paying taxes for years. Those populations feel abandoned by the State for years, in councils, some of them, of parties that, today, say here that for years, they have been reporting the problem, but have, in there, decades ago, and manage it without any solution, and now say to men and women who have lost their homes, who have seen their children lose primary school,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u349	Don't lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u350	... that have seen the health centre close, that have seen the agricultural properties finish, "give us your houses, because we will stay with them and we will continue to use your property".
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u351	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u352	Shame! Shame on a state that cannot treat Portuguese better, a government that cannot treat with dignity those for whom it has been elected and who deserve this work. In the middle of this, lawyers were prevented from entering the Zmar area. It was the same minister who was here today, beating his hand on his chest and saying that he had fulfilled all the law, which prevented lawyers from entering. Only one phone call from Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, in the middle of the afternoon, disallowed, once again, the most unauthorized minister in the history of our third Republic, who appears here, with his hand forward and backward, saying that we are all together and all in the right way. We're not all together, we're not on the right path, we're on the wrong path! When the government begins to expropriate people's lives and lands, we are on a very bad path! I will end by asking what immigration we want to go to Portugal. Do we need immigration or not? We need it! But we must be able to reflect on the kind of immigration we want. Many sexual crimes, on which here hand-stretched in the chest, have increased in countries such as Sweden and Germany, the result of Islamic immigration...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u353	There's no shame in it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u354	...and of Islamic origin that they had in their territories. [[Protests of PS Members.]] That's true, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! I know it's hard to hear, but it's the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u355	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission. [[Continuation of PS Deputies Protests.]] I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u356	I was gonna finish, but I wasn't allowed to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u357	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u358	I will end by saying this: we have to think about the immigration we want. And if no one else is capable of saying, we will say: Islamic immigration is a danger to Portugal, it is a danger to our women and our cities. We must, for the sake or with the instruments of the rule of law, be able to return dignity to lands that have long lost it. [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u359	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us move on to the third point of our agenda, which is generally discussed in the Proposal for a Law No 81 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to establish the Integrated Rural Fire Management System in continental territory and defines its rules of operation. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who wish to speak on this point, because we do not have any entries yet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u360	Isn't the government coming? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u361	Isn't the government coming? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u362	We'll wait for the arrival of government members. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u363	Now, yes, we are in a position to start the third point of our agenda. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Conservation of Nature, Forests and the Planning of the Territory, João Paulo Catarino.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u364	Ex. Mrs. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. Members: The severe fires in 2017 have clearly demonstrated the need for a strong set of measures to set up an integrated reform in the prevention and fight against forest fires. The reform under way is guided by three main principles. The principle of approximation between prevention and combat. This principle implies strengthening and progressive reorientation of resources for the pillars of prevention and surveillance, with the indispensable strengthening of the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests ( IUCF ) and the Republican National Guard ( GNR ). The principle of the professionalization and training of the system. The principle of specialization. This principle enables the progressive and trending segmentation of the means of protection of persons and goods — the first mission of civil protection — and the management of rural fires, which requires a highly specialized intervention. The reform is based on the transformation of the National Forest Defense System against Fires, created by Decree-Law No 124 / 2006 of 28 June 2006 in the Integrated Rural Fire Management System, the SGIFR. It is now necessary to implement the Integrated Rural Fire Management System and to define its rules of operation, on the basis of the recommendations of the Independent Technical Commission and the guidelines referred to above. Following a very intense work of fine articulation among the various entities involved, the Government has drawn up a draft decree that implements the essential elements of this new system. The definition, at national level, of the macropolicies and strategic guidelines contributing to reducing the danger and changing the behaviours of the owners, users and beneficiaries directly and indirectly of the rural territory; the definition of the models of inter-ministerial articulation, delimiting the competences and scopes of each entity and betting on a model of greater accountability of the various actors in the decision-making process, in line with the PNGIFR process chain (National Integrated Fire Management Plan); the definition of the content of the various instruments of integrated management of rural fires, at the national, regional, subregional and municipal level, coordinating strategic, operational and implementing functions; the creation of a rural fire information system in order to aggregate and disseminate all relevant technical information of the GISFR, reflecting a clear commitment in the definition of a model based on prevention and risk minimisation; the establishment of a governance, monitoring and evaluation model that will contribute to the continuous improvement of public policies and programmes. Finally, this draft decree provides for the improvement of the mechanisms necessary to ensure the implementation of prevention measures, the protection of persons and goods in situations of high danger or danger of rural fire and the accountability of the actors involved. The measures relating to prevention, protection and accountability mechanisms cover matters of the relative reserve of legislative competence of the Assembly of the Republic, which is why the Government submitted Law No 81 / XIV / 2 to the Assembly of the Republic. the honouring me to present to the Members of the Commission and to the Members of the European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. This proposal for a legislative authorisation law aims to establish the necessary rules to ensure the effectiveness of measures to prevent and remove rural fires, including: the implementation of prevention measures; the protection of persons and goods in situations of high danger or danger of rural fire; accountability in situations of non-compliance and, above all, in situations of fire crime. In order to ensure the effective implementation of the measures to prevent the occurrence of rural fires, the following measures are envisaged: the establishment of administrative services relating to rural fire protection networks in order to ensure that such prevention and defence infrastructures provide the necessary response, where and when necessary; the adoption of mechanisms for the implementation of fuel management duties, by the management bodies, by infrastructures or equipment and by the owners, in order to ensure that the measures necessary for the protection of infrastructures and populations are not neglected; the provision of appropriate notification mechanisms by the owners in order to ensure the effective and timely implementation of the measures, reconciling it with the fundamental safeguards. In order to ensure accountability in the event of non-compliance with prevention obligations, the following measures are also provided: the establishment of an adequate and effective counter-ordering framework, in order to ensure penalties with sufficient deterrent effect, depending on the seriousness of the infringements, but adapted to the characteristics of the recipients present; the forecasting of the use of video surveillance and air surveillance means, in order to ensure the monitoring of fires and effective accountability; and, in this context, the allocation of evidence for criminal liability purposes to images collected within the fire surveillance network. In order to ensure the safety of people and goods in situations of high danger or danger of rural fire, the following measures are also envisaged: restriction of movement and activities involving the concentration of many people in situations of danger, in order to prevent serious risks and avoid the occurrence of tragedies such as those that occurred in the past; conditioning of the use of fire, machinery and equipment, thereby preventing the occurrence of ignition sources in more critical areas and periods. The measures provided for in this proposed legislative authorisation law shall be implemented in the draft law annexed to it. To put in place this necessary reform, it is essential that we take advantage of the work developed and the hard effort of consensus and articulation made to achieve a common vision among so many entities. We therefore count on the important cooperation of the ladies and gentlemen. Members to achieve, together, the greater and more urgent goal of protecting Portugal, people, animals, the environment, heritage, activities and resources, against the destruction caused by rural fires. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u365	Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to congratulate you, because I have not done so recently. Mr Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u366	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen: I am glad that at the last hour the Government appeared because, as a proposal for legislative authorization was under discussion, we were surprised that it did not go to the House to work. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u367	Mr Secretary of State, understand my comment, because they present this legislative authorization to us today hastily, not even waiting for the report which, as you know, the OTI (Independent Technical Observatory) is preparing, and has a 60-day deadline for the new integrated system. It would have been good to wait to hear the experts as well. He tells us that he wants to simplify the system, which he says is horizontal, but the truth is that he creates a series of regimes all in parallel, which is densifying and making much more complicated what he says to pretend to be simple. Let me make a point: this is very strange coming from you, because it was precisely who said that the processes should be simplified. Say something and do exactly the opposite, through an incredible complexity that comes to put in the process and create more entropies. But there is a matter of great concern to the PSD, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u368	There's the PSD! Be nervous with a ease!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u369	It is not so much the theoretical part of this legislative authorization. Theoretically, for those who are torn apart from the territory and do not know this country, it seems to us to be a very good proposal. The problem is that policies and laws have to be considered for the territory. That's where the busily of the matter is. As you know, all those policies are not adjusted. They're kind, but they need people, they need people's training. Where are they? Oh, my God! They are very inadequate policies of the territory. In fact, the PSD has been talking for a long time, as you will recall, about the inadequacy of policies and their implementation in the territory. Which, theoretically, seems good, then, in practice, is not. We also strange more than two or three aspects. When you want to simplify a system, explain to us how, for example, the fines and the counter-ordering system for fuel management tracks continue in the State budgets rather than being in a diploma like this, where it would make sense. Or will it be for cash hoc, year after year, if you do what you want, not taking into account a planned and integrated management? As for the training of agents and how funding will come, we have a territory that will be planned on paper and then, in reality, it is what we see: a hand full of nothing, with the interior increasingly abandoned. We're so sorry! More, Mr Secretary of State: with this type of diplomas, blank checks do not take them, because the government does not deserve them either. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u370	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u371	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This National Plan of Integrated Management of Rural Fires is of the greatest relevance to the country. There are different dimensions that we cannot fail to guard against, of course, the part of prevention, not only the sanctioning part or the fight against fires themselves. In fact, we cannot help but strengthen what has just been said by the PSD. With regard to the counter-ordering framework, it is indeed strange that it is not densified and stabilized in its own system and that it is dependent on the State budgets. We couldn't agree more about that. But more: what seems to us, from reading some critical aspects of this plan, is that it is not enough to trace and identify goals that are inscribed in the plans, but that later do not materialize and end up not happening, decades after decades. in this sense, it is unacceptable that the Government continues not to make progress on the ground with some answers that can solve the problem of forest planning, since it cannot be contrary to this plan. in this case, there is a total absence of it, which then prevents an effective prevention of fire risks. On the other hand, in this context, the government is rocking the responsibilities for the people, which seems to us to be clearly incomprehensible. It is not the people who have to solve the serious problem of forestry reorganisation in Portugal ; it is the government who must take the initiative to create measures that meet this need, in particular on the basis of the specificities of the territory. This attitude, in our view, is serious and, in some way, unfair to the populations, who have suffered in recent years with the great fires. Even in view of the characteristics of the national territory, we know that extreme climatic phenomena will manifest themselves more and more, it is essential that this be guarded in the reorganisation of the territory. in this sense, we must remember that much of the area burned in Portugal consists precisely of monoculture plantations and not by the so-called 'forest' or by the conceptual designation we have of the forest itself. Our territory has vast intensive eucalyptal, pine-tree plantations, particularly in the North and Central regions and even in areas of the Natura Network, which often coincide with high-risk fire zones and where the occurrence of large-scale fires ends up growing. The conversion of the forest itself, in order to significantly reduce these types of plantations, should be seen and thought of in this plan as a strategic vision for the country, which we did not verify. On the other hand, Mr Secretary of State, what is not understood is that the recovery of the burned areas is not seen as an opportunity to promote the resilience of our territory, as well as its requalification, having, for example, an interlocution with more fire resistant native species, which would ensure greater resistance and reduce the risk of fire spread. The regeneration and defense of biodiversity should be a component and a bet, which we do not verify in this plan, which should also deal with depopulation. This cannot be a sectoral plan, it must be interministerial, Mr Secretary of State. Prevention is in fact due to the quality and capacity of our forest, which is not currently happening. The NAP has defended the conclusion of the forest register, something that has not been done and for which it is necessary to ensure the State's intervention not only in the identification and cleaning of the land itself, but also in the relief of the populations. Care must be taken to help people and animals. It is not enough to be a coal mentioned, there must be an adequacy and integration in these plans, including this veterinary component, so that, in fact, there will be no human victims or non-human victims. from the NAP, we will not make the plan viable, we will abstain. We hope that the Government will welcome our concerns in legislative authorization so that we can approach the various concerns.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u372	Mr Ricardo Vicente of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u373	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: We well know that, in terms of agroforestry policy, prevention and fire control, this government often ignores many of the technical and scientific recommendations available so far. Technical commissions, observatories and expert groups are set up, but then they ignore their recommendations in a round manner. This way of governing is irresponsible and contrary to the public interest and its risks are eminently increasing with the advance of climate change. There are no examples of essential recommendations that have been ignored. They did so by determining that the Agency for Integrated Management of Rural Fires ( AGIF ) would be integrated into the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests rather than acting as an inter-agency, as advised by the Independent Technical Commission in its proposal. Even now it has begun and remains confused among professionals with similar competences, but with very different links and remunerations, allocated to AGIF and the ICNF, and this not to mention the salary promotion of the ICNF leaders vis-à-vis other general directions. Where stability and cooperation are needed, the government decides on turbulence. They ignored scientific recommendations during the production of the National Plan for Integrated Rural Fire Management, with the launch of the strategy untiringly of the action programme, a programme whose final version Parliament does not know. So what the government is asking us now is that we pass a blank check for its implementation. We'll vote against it. It is clear to the Government that Parliament has decided to resume the operation of the Independent Technical Observatory for 60 days to ensure an opinion on the action programme in question. The Government disagrees with transparency, scrutiny and public debate in this area. They ignored the scientific recommendations on vocational training and employment stability, which is a good example of the case of forest slags, who do not have a professional career and are shared by several different entities in different contexts of precariousness. They ignored scientific recommendations when they decided to maintain regional forest planning plans with inadequate targets, assuming as priority the pure eucalyptus settlements, contrary to the Landscape Transformation Program and the needs to adapt the territory to climate change. They ignored the Scientific Commission's recommendations for the recovery of Pinhal de Leiria and the littoral forests burned in 2017, which still have no updated forest management plans today, putting the State to give a bad example as owner and forest manager. The implementation of a new common agricultural policy is currently being prepared. Decisions of national application will be paramount in order to change the country's forest structure and ensure the resilience of the territory to rural fires. The Government has created a group of experts to support this process, but there has already been resignation, and the Government has been accused of lack of transparency, of ignoring the public interest and the recommendations of the experts. What the government is not available to welcome public interest abounds in sympathy with the cellulose industry, to which it has not been able to apply a rate planned two years ago. It is also justified that the ex ante assessment and the strategic environmental assessment of the common agricultural policy are delivered to AGRO.GES, see well, the company of the former Secretary of State for Forests Francisco Gomes da Silva, which was recently promoted to the Director-General of CELPA, association of the cellulose industry. Questioned yesterday in the Commission if this conflict of interest is to maintain, the Minister of Agriculture replied nothing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u374	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u375	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State: It is good to be here with you today, because it was four years ago that the Government announced that it would present a new model of land management and forest defense. And I say this not because it took us today, but because it took four years to finally present this system, which we see as a speedy and speedy praise. But when we start looking at the diploma, we realize that there are the same government ticks. He cannot legislate without talking about expropriation and administrative services! There they are again in this diploma. They ask Parliament for a blank check so that, in cases of need, without anyone knowing what that need is, citizens can be expropriated again and administrative services. But we know what we're talking about, Mr. Secretary of State, we understand the concepts, and they're there! This diploma also refers to video surveillance, which the government says is to defend and protect the forest, but then says that it can be used in the investigation of the causes of fires, i.e. criminal investigation. The government is legislating criminal investigation and bringing us this diploma as if it were an integrated system, a fire management system. I doubt until the constitutionality of this, i.e. that a diploma like this can establish a means of criminal investigation or a means of obtaining evidence or evidential diligence to be taken to the court even in cases of fire.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u376	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u377	I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying only that neither the report of the Court of Auditors has been followed by the Government. This report called for an integrated management model, a management model on the training of firefighters'careers and nevertheless the Government ignored the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u378	Mr Santinho Pacheco, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u379	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The National Plan for Integrated Management of Rural Fires defines a network model of all entities that integrate it. The year 2017 showed that there were enormous weaknesses in our rural world. The consequences of the fires in the central region, in Pinhal Interior, combined with climate change, show the urgency of improving the safety of populations and their assets. There is a widespread observation that over the decades it has lived from backs to rural and mountain areas, in a lack of forest policies and strategies in Portugal, where 97% of the area is private and only 3% is public. This bill is another element of this need to change. The forests and all the spaces associated with them are a common good to preserve. We are defining and implementing public policies to encourage active management of the territory, contrary to the abandonment by its owners, supporting family agriculture, protecting the surrounding areas of the villages. The priority must be to avoid fires, reduce the number of ignitions, and this presupposes a different forest, which points to the causes of forest disorder. I mean depopulation in the first place. The exodus of rural populations leads to the increase of uncultivated areas and these are at the origin of the expansion of the slaughterhouses, authentic powder barrels that the high temperatures and low humidity enhance. The forest of multiple use, well-planned, orderly and strictly managed, leads to the sustainability that it has not had. The multipurpose forest is the answer. Profitability cannot be an objective in itself, leading to intensive production of species such as eucalyptus. The multi-use forest involves populations in prevention. A forest made by everyone and for everyone! The aggregate management of the rural territories and the mobilization of family farming, of our active rurality, with grazing in the mountain areas are coordinated in the prevention of fires with the suppression of fuel materials in primary and secondary networks. The change we propose to continue defines the bases of national forest policy, establishing a governance at the country, regional and subregional level, with planning and coordination functions. Under this Act, the Assembly of the Republic shall grant the Government legislative authorization to establish the integrated system for the management of rural fires and shall lay down the rules for their operation, from the outset, the simplification of the procedures. From the teachings and scientific knowledge to point out the opinions and recommendations of the Independent Technical Observatory, the answer is given about who decides, who makes, who is responsible. There are no excuses or, better yet, as Jorge Coelho would say, guilt cannot, in this case, die single. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u380	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u381	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The great fires of 2017, with the loss of more than one hundred human lives, numerous goods and about 500 thousand hectares devastated, have made it clear the need to reverse the paradigm not only in terms of combating rural fires, but above all in terms of prevention, which is not dissociable from policies for the rural world, which over the decades have been contrary to the needs of these territories, their population and economic activities, which stubbornly resist the difficulties resulting from the lack of public health services, education, transport and communication and lack of public investment. The Government proposes an integrated management system for rural fires, but seems to ignore the need for people in rural areas, for their decisive role in the prevention of fires, reducing the risk and severity of fires, especially through family farming. Delays in valuing agricultural activities and the rural world and implementing the rights enshrined in the Family Agriculture Statute, avoiding the abandonment of agricultural holdings and cultivated areas. Although land-cleaning is important, today the government wants to make even more responsible for the management of fuel itself, not taking into account the reality of rural areas, including the ageing of the population and its economic resources parks. It is a population which, having no profitability due to low prices paid by wood, has serious difficulties in cleaning the land. After the 2017 fires, the guilt and increase of fines on the owners— accented on this bill—have encouraged speculation in rural areas, on the one hand, by inflationing the price charged for land cleaning and, on the other hand, by selling land to scrapping to avoid such costs, leading to the concentration of property. The prevention of rural fires is indissociable from a correct tree policy. The government is obsessed with small owners, but should look at the companies of cellulose, responsible, directly or indirectly, for extensive monocultures of eucalyptus that literally drown localities in a dense sea of eucalyptal, increasing the risk and leaving the population more vulnerable. On the other hand, after the fires, dense carpets of eucalyptus are formed that invade areas once treed by other species and invade public roads. Agricultural and forest paths left for abandonment after the fires are today intransitable, covered with invasive species such as acacias and spontaneous growth eucalyptus. The State must assume responsibility for maintaining public roads and managing public land. In its discharge of responsibilities, the Government pushes the most competent municipalities, in particular the replacement of landowners, without those who have seen the appropriate material and financial resources being strengthened. In the end, one asks: why have you changed what you changed so recently and promised us that it was now that it was? What's the government's balance sheet? What's wrong?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u382	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u383	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government is here asking for a legislative authorization to establish the Integrated Rural Fire Management System, but before submitting this legislative authorisation, it has ensured its viability by the PSD. Once again, the PSD has been “put in the Government’s pocket” on this issue of forests, and this is clear here because of its intervention. The check he passed was exactly what the PS and the government asked him to do. With this bill the Government is revoking Decree-Law No 124 / 2006 — and I hope that the PSD reflects on what I am going to say — which is just the Integrated Rural Fire Management System. This is neither small nor small, it is the cornerstone of the prevention and protection of forests against fires that the government has now repealed. I remember that Decree-Law No 124 / 2006 has already been the subject of Law No 76 / 2017, by name — do you remember? — by the former PS Government as « D. Dinis reform ». For here is the defense of the forest: they said that I would solve all the problems and evils of the forest,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u384	You've supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u385	... of such good, so good that it was, but it has already undergone two amendments and, little more than three years later, here is a request for legislative authorization to change it. Why did the PCP have reason when it voted against and reason had the PCP when it warned that legislation in a hurry would not solve anything, rather, and even that precipitation was not a good advisor! We said that the role was in keeping with how many laws there they wanted to enter, however, it is not with laws that they want to hide the policy that despised the rural world and the forest and that promoted their abandonment that solve the problems. But what does the government want to hide from this proposal? It does not mean that it is revoking the Forest Defense System against Fires and did not even make the balance sheet—that was the minimum that was requested! — the effectiveness of the legislation in force. He didn't make any balance sheet and decided to legislate. He does not want to acknowledge that the PCP was right when he criticized the law in force and is throwing out the important role of the forest guards and ending the target of 500 forest slag teams. He turned his back on that goal. This proposal, essentially, emphasizes the persecution of small owners, with fines and more fines and threats to those who decide to defend their property. This proposal includes the establishment of the right of various entities to enter private land and constitute services for use without payment of such services, Mr. Secretary of State. This proposal determines the coercive implementation of the fuel management bands not by the central administration, but by the authorities and can even be delegated to the fregetical boards. With this proposal, the Government expects GNR to execute the controlled fire actions. We have to ask: what about the ICNF, who had high quality teams to do this job? in this proposal there is not even a reference to forest guards, which were provided for in the diploma now repealed. As I have already said, it is equally eliminated the objective of reaching the 500 teams of forest slags. With this proposal, the Government attaches its attention to the Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen! — tasks of responsibility of the Internal Administration, in particular by ensuring « the dissuasive presence », which is the responsibility of the Internal Administration. in this proposal there is a set of competences attributed to the GNR that should be the competence of forest guards. This is the case with the investigation of the causes of forest fires, which is referred to in Article 76. the decree of law here at issue. According to the specific criminal police law, in addition to the forest guards, only the judicial police have this competence. It is up to forest guards to police and monitor compliance with forest legislation, but in this proposal they are completely out of sight.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u386	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u387	I will finish with the cherry on the top of the cake, Madam President, Article 80. the rule which repeals the decree-law prohibiting the modification of land use for ten years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u388	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u389	Mrs. Members, from the adoption of this decree-law, any owner to whom to burn his forest property may change the use of the soil on the following day and move on to use it for another purpose,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u390	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u391	... when I was obliged to explore it for this purpose for ten years, what protected the forest! That's what you guys don't care about! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u392	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u393	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the entry of this diploma, because there can be a lot to say about it, but that has come in quickly or early is that it cannot be said, in any way. He was in the alley four years ago, it took four years, but it was worth more late than ever. The problem, Mr. Secretary of State, is that what you can say positive is more or less around here. And I explain why. First, the Government has chosen — it could not have chosen, it could have made a bill — to make a proposal for an authorization law, which means that we are going to vote today in general, in specialty and in the overall final vote. And it might not be like that. This means that it will irrevocably condition our sense of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u394	And it's really irrevocable? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u395	Why? Because, Mr. Secretary of State, there are many questions that remain here in the air. I'll explain. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Firstly, it does not follow this diploma, no opinion of any association, of no union, of no one strictly. Serious decisions of this nature, especially when they are to be taken in relatively little time, at least must be followed. In addition, more than diabolize some species, I believe that there will be no greater friend of the fires than the abandoned forest. But in order for it not to be abandoned and the territory not to be abandoned, people need to be able to earn their lives there. If there is anything that this government has shown is that it has a prejudice against the activities that allow people to earn a living in these territories and I will refrain from giving you examples, because there are many. What the government is now asking for is a fully blank check to do more or less what it understands, to move into the counter-ordering framework, to impose obligations on the people who are here, without counterpart and with certain supervision. I am sorry, but, in other circumstances and with other proposals, other ways of voting would be possible, but this is simply not possible to achieve this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u396	For an intervention, Mr Francisco Oliveira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u397	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The National System of Integrated Management of Rural Fires has defined a model of horizontal articulation of all entities participating in structural prevention in the self-protection systems of people and infrastructures and, in particular, in the device to combat rural fires and in the recovery of the burned areas. This system is a fundamental tool in the construction of the National Plan of Integrated Management of Rural Fires and aims to change the paradigm of fire prevention and combat. Since 2017, the Government has taken numerous measures to provide the means necessary to combat fires. In 2020 there was a significant increase in human and material resources: 21, 41 % increased operational, 13, 18 % firefighters, and the air response device had an expanded air attack reinforcement. All of this allowed the reduction of 51 % in the burning area and 50 % in rural fires, compared to the average in recent years. However, the strategy is not only to fight the fires, but to prevent them from happening, being the fundamental prevention, which is why the Integral Management System of Rural Fires is so important. This diploma allows ANEPC ( National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority ) to coordinate the axis of rural fires, the safety and protection of people and animals, goods and built area. It explains the scope of the intervention of firefighter bodies, aligning the means of governance with the new territorial model of civil protection. It also allows the application of restrictions or conditions in municipalities where the danger of fires is very high or maximum. But the important thing about this whole strategy is that the resources for prevention are already half of those spent on the fire fighting device and tend to increase in the future. We know that territorial cohesion, the fixing of populations and changing the type of forest are essential to substantially reduce ignition. This is the way we are going to defend people, their possessions, their cultures and the forest, promoting the economic development of these regions, which happens with this law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u398	Mr Duarte Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u399	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The presentation of this diploma, made today by the Government, is basically the confession that in four years everything they presented failed. It is to recognize the error for which they were warned and for which they always counted on the support of the PCP, in the first row, and also of the Left Block. It's always good to remember.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u400	We voted against, you have supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u401	This is the confession of failure, which now irritates the Portuguese Communist Party! But, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys, if the Government wanted to hold this discussion with high and serious seriousness, proposing a set of profound reforms that go from combating fires to prevention, should at least arrive here with a set of opinions, as the CDS said, and allow a discussion in the specialty, let the initiative go down without a vote to the committee. I should not come here with this blackmail « on top of the summer», creating instability, again trying to use the constancy that they used four years ago to approve legislation in a hurry.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u402	It's blackmail!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u403	Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, the PSD gave you two warnings and a call for attention. The PSD will not block this approval,... [[Ah!!!...]] [[Ah!!!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u404	...but don't count on our support. It's just that the PCP and the Left Block went on for four years and approved everything. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u405	The Secretary of State has a legislative authorization here and the PSD will be in the front row to promote the parliamentary assessment of each of the diplomas if they abuse the authorization given to it by Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u406	Great walk!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u407	This is because this government has a history of lack of transparency, of approving documents which, in fact, does not come into being and, whenever it has a minimum power in hand, abuses people, as we have seen recently. Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, you have here matter to work. What he presents to us is not enough.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u408	That's why they make it possible!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u409	It is a redefinition of the functions of the Armed Forces, the GNR, the firefighters, the ICNF. They want to try to change everything they have so far failed, led by an agency that is AGIF which has no political control of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u410	That's why PSD is viable!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u411	Mr. Secretary of State, stay alert and alert. The Secretary of State has a lot of matters to approve in the Council of Ministers and the PSD assures you that in each of the diplomas Parliamentary assessment will always be on the table. So if you want to discuss, if you want to hear the Observatory, the entities and the other parties, you really have to listen, because otherwise you will regret it. [[Ui!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u412	By the way, Mr. Secretary of State, do not use the argument that we are on top of the summer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u413	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u414	from the PSD side will have an assertive and constructive opposition and we will never kneel as the PCP and the Block have kneeled for four years. [[PSD applause.]] [[Rice from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u415	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us create conditions for the closure of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u416	I've got my legs shaking with the PSD intervention! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u417	To close the debate, Mr. Secretary of State for Conservation of Nature, Forests and Planning of the Territory, João Paulo Catarino.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u418	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, it is not a blank check, because we have sent the diploma in full, the decree-law and the legislative authorization, with a view to approving and reproducing what we have sent you. Therefore, on all these issues that we want an empty check from the House, that is not true, because we have sent all, in perfection, to be approved and will thus be approved in the Council of Ministers. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, this is not a diploma of planning and planning of the territory, is a diploma that structures the system of prevention and surveillance. These issues are undoubtedly very timely and are, indeed, being worked — some have already been approved — others are being adopted in other diplomas, but not in this, as is obvious. This is a diploma to structure the surveillance and prevention system, so that is what it does. Mr. Ricardo Vicente said that we did not hear what the Independent Technical Commission said. Mr, what is here is what the Independent Technical Commission said in 2017. That's exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u419	Look what they're hearing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u420	Yeah, they are! I hope so. It is precisely what they said in 2017 that we had to specialize in fighting fires in the urban and rural areas. That is what you are in this diploma, which assigns different functions to the ANEPC and the ICNF as a function of combat. The honourable Member also spoke at Pinhal de Leiria. What is being implemented in Pinhal de Leiria is what the scientific committee said it was supposed to do. in this scientific commission were, as you know, university teachers. If at the time they thought one thing and today they think another, we have no fault. We are strictly implementing what they told us at the time!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u421	They also evolve!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u422	Some evolve and others laugh, but finally... On the question of administrative services, they have a specific cartography. They are mapped in the plans and there will be 89 million in the PRR to pay these administrative services to the owners. We will pay these administrative services according to the tables that are defined, so the owners will not be harmed at least because these payments are planned. As for the images as evidence, it's just to be easier to catch the criminals. That is all for that, and you have no doubt that it is all for that, Mr President. I must also reply to Mr João Dias who says that we are changing a diploma three years ago. What we are revoking is a 2006 diploma, I repeat, of 2006, Mr Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u423	But it was changed in 2017!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u424	It is 2006 and all that you have mentioned here is already in this diploma since 2006. Here are some changes and improvements, but...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u425	That's an exchange!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u426	It's no exchange! What you said already in your diploma since 2006, I apologize there! There are innovations, but already there have been since 2006.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u427	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u428	I will finish, Madam President. I believe that the system in this project, in particular, is what the Government has approved in some resolutions of the Council of Ministers and that is what the Government has been saying to the country since 2017, and which is being implemented in this legal diploma. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u429	We have thus concluded the third point of our agenda, and I am therefore taking advantage of it to say goodbye to the honourable Members. Members of the Government. We move on to the fourth point, which is 1. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2021, for which there are no time of discussion assigned. Before we proceed to the fifth and last point of our agenda, the legislative votes, I give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u430	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the Resolution Projects Nos. 1249 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls at 11. a, 12. a and 13. a Commissions and 1250 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u431	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary Sofia Araújo will now report on three opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of the Members to be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u432	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Judge of General Competition of Heads of Basto, Case No 48 / 21.1GACBG, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Joaquim Barreto ( PS ) to give written testimony as a witness within the framework of those cars ; The request of the Inspection Services of the Supreme Council of the Magistrate, Disciplinary Case No 2020 / PD / 0021, the Committee on Transparency and Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Fernando Negro ( PSD ) to give written testimony as a witness within the reference cars; and The request of the Order of Veterinary Physicians, Inquiry Case No 61 / 2020, the Committee on Transparency and Statutory Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Bebiana Cunha ( PAN ) to present testimony as a witness within the reference cars. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u433	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinions are under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for them. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the Bureau records quorum, and we will therefore start the period of the vote. We begin with the appreciation of the Vote Project No 561 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by PS ) — I regret the death of Carlos Bernardes, whom I ask Mrs. Anne Catarina Mendonça Mendes to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u434	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, life preaches departures and has tragic moments, reaping lives too early. « Carlos Bernardes, President of the City Hall of Torres Vedras, was 53 years old. He died last May 3rd. Torres Vedras dressed himself today to say goodbye to him, by his example as committed president and dedicated to his land. Carlos Manuel Antunes Bernardes was born in Lisbon on 11 February 1968, and lived in Turcifal, municipality of Torres Vedras, 45 years ago. He graduated in the Management of Tourist and Hotel Businesses, at the Instituto Superior Politécnico do Oeste, and doctorate in Tourism, at the Institute of Geography and Planning of the University of Lisbon, where he defended thesis subordinated to the title ‘The Lines of Torres Vedras — a strategic tourist destination for Portugal’. Politically active, and in this bench many of us know him, from the ranks of Socialist Youth, where he began his political journey, Carlos Bernardes represented a force, a proactivity and a desire to do more and more. He joined the Socialist Party in 1990, where he performed the most diverse functions. At the time of his death, he was also President of the Regional Federation of the West of the Socialist Party. In the exercise of active citizenship, he was an associative leader of the House of the People of Turcifal and its Sports Group, the Association of Reliefs of the parish of Turcifal and the Sport Clube Unión Torreense. The link to local collectives remained as an athlete of the Sports Group House of the People of the Turkifal and of the Association of Physical and Sports Education of Torres Vedras. In 1988, he entered the public service and was still a young man who expressed his interest in a more active civic and political participation. He served as secretary of the Council of Frequencies of Turkey and served as deputy and secretary of the support office of the President of the City Council of Torres Vedras, between 1994 and 1997. In 1997, he joined the executive of the Municipal Chamber of Sobral de Monte Agraço, where he was responsible for the tourism campaign, a theme that always fell in love with him until the end of his days, having deepened his knowledge and attended, therefore, a course of Promotion and Management of Local Tourist Resources and a course of Management and Cultural Animation. Torres Vedras was his land, or was adopted by him, and in it he would make his greatest journey in dedication to the public cause. He was Vice-President of the City Hall of Torres Vedras between 2003 and 2005, responsible for the environmental and urban services furs and in 2005 he was appointed Vice-President of the City Hall where his contribution to the temporary positioning of Torres Vedras in the fields of the Environment and Sustainability that all claim today to Torres Vedras is relevant. The signing of the Aalborg commitments, the accession to the United Nations Local Agenda 21 or the European Commission's Autarchic Energy and Climate Pact are some of the brands that Carlos Bernardes leaves. He was also Ambassador Quality Coast, Ambassador Green Destinations for Europe, and member of the Political Advisory Committee of CIVITAS Initiative, since 1 December 2015. Carlos Bernardes was, in fact, remanded from the Socialist Party, with the public presentation of his candidacy on the next day of June 5. For those who knew him, he was an extraordinary human being. And it will be remembered by all and by all as a self-denialed human being, compassionate, humble, untiring in his efforts in all the causes he has embraced throughout his life. Regardless of the position and functions assumed throughout his journey, Carlos Bernardes gave himself, of body and soul, with the passion that characterized him, to the public service, especially in his region, the West Region. It is not too much to remember that in the last year of the pandemic, it has spared no effort, and perhaps this has led to the harvest of his life, to help all those who were caught by the COVID, whether by the disease, or by the consequences it has brought. It will always be unforgettable for all those with him who deprived, in professional life, of political life, the way Carlos motivated those around him and with whom he worked, with a contagious smile and a ‘ working, working, working! “ Always for the sake of public service. Leaves a great miss. His tireless dedication and service to the public cause and all the work he has done along his political journey leave us a legacy, a mark, which will forever remain in the memory of all those with him who have been deprived. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Carlos Bernardes and conveys its condolences to the municipality of Torre Vedras, his wife Angelica, his son Rafael, the rest of his family, the bench of the Socialist Party, the Government and also the whole Socialist Party. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u435	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy. The Bureau also associated itself with this manifestation of regret over the death of Carlos Bernardes and sent condolences to the family, friends and the Socialist Party. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No 564 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities and signed by a Member of the PSD ) — regretting the death of 453 migrants in the Mediterranean. Mrs Lina Lopes will do her best to read the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u436	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last April 24, 2021, the world was shocked to learn of the last tragedy in the Mediterranean, with the death of 130 migrants, after the ship carrying them turned, north-east of the Libyan capital, Tripoli. According to the International Organization for Migration, chaired by Portuguese António Vitorino, this is the incident with the greatest loss of life in the Central Mediterranean since the beginning of 2021, thus making an estimated total of 435 lives lost or disappeared throughout the Mediterranean sea since the beginning of the year. The repetition of this tragedy raises questions about whether this fatal outcome would not be avoidable. The European authorities and Libyans were informed 48 hours in advance and did not come to the rescue of the vessel. The Libyan coast guard, who was assisting ships in international waters, abandoned this and other ship, with an estimated crew of 40 people. The European authority, Frontex, did an air surveillance operation, but did not take any other measures. Moreover, the allegations of systematic and serious violations of human rights of migrants returned to Libya by the authorities of this country should be taken into account. Saving lives is an obligation of human decency and, in the maritime sphere, an obligation imposed by international law. It is time to act for a policy of humanist borders, capable of coordinating national authorities or, moreover, adopting a European mission and funding for search and rescue operations. We must do so as quickly as possible, anticipating the worsening of the situation in the Mediterranean as time becomes warmer with the approaching summer. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of 453 migrants in the Mediterranean during the current year, calling on national and European authorities to strengthen and increase aid for search and rescue operations. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u437	Thank you very much, Secretary Lina Lopes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 1230 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Cape Verde and Guinea-Bissau. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we are now going to vote together eleven requests, tabled by the legislative proposals, asking the Committee on Labour and Social Security to be discharged without a 60-day vote of the Bills No 745 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Alter the legal and labor telework regime, ensuring greater protection of the worker (Tenth Nine Amendment to the Labour Code and First Amendment to Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September 2009 which regulates the scheme for repairing occupational accidents and occupational diseases), 765 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — regulates the work regime in telework, 535 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Consecrates the right of professional disconnection, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 811 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Regulates telework in the public and private sectors, creates the flexible working regime and strengthens the rights of workers working at a distance, by amending the Labour Code, the General Law on Public Works and the Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September, 790 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Guarantees the right of workers to professional disconnection, 791 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthen the rights of workers under telework, 797 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates the right to disconnect, makes the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, 806 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Change the Labour Code with a view to regulating telework more fairly, 808 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Procedures for regulating telework and 812 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Alter the legal-laboration regime of telework ( Tenth Nineth Amendment to the Labour Code and First Amendment to Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September 2009 regulating the system of repair of accidents at work and occupational diseases) and the Draft Resolution No 1222 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote a broad debate with the social partners with a view to the conclusion of a social agreement on matters relating to the future of work, in particular on telework and the work of digital nomads. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We are going to vote in general on the general speciality and in the overall final vote, the Bill No 81 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to establish the Integrated Rural Fire Management System in continental territory and defines its rules of operation. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the CH and abstentions of the PSD, the PAN, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall then vote on 1. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2021. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1118 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends the reactivation of the environmental awareness campaign « The climate is with us ». [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the PS, BE, the PCP and the MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Then we have the Resolution Project No 1163 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Implementation of measures for monitoring, depolating and valuing the river Dão and its tributaries. Let's vote for it, generally. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The diploma goes down to 11. the Commission. We will now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No 1232 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — For environmental recovery and depollution of the river Dão sub-basin. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The diploma goes down to 11. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1056 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — recommends that the Government review the content of sex education in schools, ensuring the promotion of gender equality. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS, CDS-PP and CH and abstentions by the IL and the members of PS Eduardo Barroco de Melo and Miguel Matos.]] The diploma is lower than 8.The Commission. We will vote for draft resolution No 1088 / XIV / 2. a ( Member of Parliament not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — For an education for sexuality and for the affections whose contents reinforce the promotion of gender equality in schools, the fight against gender violence and stereotypes and a time load that reflects its educational importance. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the Members of the PS Eduardo Barroco de Melo and Miguel Matos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u438	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u439	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u440	Madam President, I would like to announce that we will deliver a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u441	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will now vote for draft resolution No 1229 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government promote education for sexuality in schools. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and from PS Eduardo Barroco de Melo and Miguel Matos.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1233 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By the effective implementation of cross-sectional and interdisciplinary sexual education in school. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the CH were rejected, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, PAN, IL and PS Eduardo Barroco de Melo and Miguel Matos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u442	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u443	Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u444	Madam President, I would like to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u445	Mr. Miguel Costa Matos, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u446	Madam President, I would also like to announce a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members Maria Begonha, Eduardo Barroco de Melo, Filipe Pacheco and Joana Sá Pereira, on these last four draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u447	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1181 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government review the professional careers of the Public Security Police. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 850 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Promotion of mental health in context COVID-19, 861 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government develop a specific and urgent approach to mental health in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, 869 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Mental health response measures in Portugal, 879 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Strengthening and improving mental health policies in a health emergency context, 880 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Measures to combat mental health problems, taking into account the COVID-19 pandemic, 963 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — For a commitment to the mental health of new generations, 964 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — By strengthening SNS responses in the area of mental health and 969 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of strategies for the prevention and strengthening of responses to mental health impacts. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We shall now vote in a global final vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 1114 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By performing contests that meet the needs of schools and do not exclude teachers and 1122 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — By conducting a teacher contest that best responds to the needs of teaching staff in schools. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] Before we conclude our session, I give the floor to Ms. Secretary of Bureau Sofia Araújo to give us some final information.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u448	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that, via videoconferencing, you have been present. Mr José Cesario, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, and Mr Ivan Gonçalves, from the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-06.u449	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember that the next plenary meeting will be on May 12, Wednesday, at 14 a.m. and 30 minutes. the first item contains a debate with the Government on general policy under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, and in the second point, a debate on the instruments of economic governance of the European Union, with the participation of the Government, provided for in Article 4(1) ( e ). the Act of Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union's construction process and a preparatory debate by the European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister, as provided for in Article 4 ( 1 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic, in the framework of the European Union building process. Now, yes, we have arrived at the end of our session today, which has been long. I wish everyone a good rest of the day and also a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 2 minutes.]]
