ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority, to whom I ask you to open the doors of the galleries intended for the public. [[It was 15 hours and 20 minutes.]] Let's start the work of our plenary, starting with a set of fundamental information that Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will do the favor of giving. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u2	Good afternoon to all and to all. Mr President, I am going to announce a series of opinions from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members so that they can be voted on. First of all, we have an opinion on the replacement of Mr António Topa ( PSD ) of the Aveiro electoral circle by Rui Cruz from October 31, 2021, even if the legal requirements are met.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please proceed, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, secondly, we have an opinion in order to authorize Mrs Bebiana Cunha ( PAN ) to testify, at present, as a witness, in accordance with the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office — Procurator's Office of the Republic of the Republic of Portugal — DIAP — Section de Santo Tirso, under Case No 566 / 20.9T9STS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You would like to continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u6	Finally, the request of Judge 5 of the Local Criminal Court of Lisbon, Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Case No 10607 / 18.4T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Fernando Negrão ( PSD ) to give written testimony within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am going to announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 1007 / XIV / 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1008 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 109 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 1010 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1011 / XIV/ 3. a ( PS ), which drops to 1. the Commission and draft resolution No 1496 / XIV/ 3. a ( ENP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u9	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Let us then enter the first point of our agenda, which is from the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 109 / XIV — regulates the conditions under which the death of the assisted drug is not punishable and amends the Criminal Code. To open the debate, Mrs Isabel Moreira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The diploma that regulates the special conditions in which the anticipation of the death of assisted medicine is not punishable was approved by the overwhelming majority of the Portuguese people sitting here in the House of Democracy. It was approved by an unquestionable majority, it was a particularly informed vote, because the debate around euthanasia was perhaps one of the longest, deeper, opener and more involved debates that we have memory. In fact, the parliamentary debate itself, in its plurality, was praised, because the quality ennobled the parliamentary institution that some now strive to despair. The theme of assisted death is the result of long social and parliamentary debate, and this debate, with names that have been erased from our convivial but not from our memory, such as those of Laura Ferreira dos Santos, João Semedo or Luís Marques, who asked us more quickly, who did not endure our time and died in Switzerland, compels me to remind myself that today we do not care to revisit the legislative process or to respond to entities whose opinions were issued at the constitutional, legal and regulated time. I am obliged to underline this point, in the name of the dignity of those who have fought for the dignity of all people and for the dignity of Parliament and the legislative process. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] This is the moment of the re-evaluation of a decree that we intend to return to Mr. President of the Republic and the entity that we had to listen to, if I may say so, is called the Constitutional Court. The President submitted the approved diploma of preventive supervision and the Constitutional Court, in addition to what was required of him, called for the removal of the theses that euthanasia is unconstitutional for violation of human life. In the words of the judgment, '(...) the right to live cannot be transformed into a duty to live under any circumstances. The opposite would be incompatible with the notion of man-person, endowed with his own dignity, which is a self-conscious and free, self-determined and self-responsible subject, in which the Portuguese constitutional order is founded. Do not keep on seeking. ” The ruling of the Judges of the Ratton Palace was based on the concepts of « definitive injury of extreme gravity, in accordance with scientific consensus», considering, unlike the President of the Republic, that the concept of « intolerable suffering», though wide, does not cease to be determined. Having returned the decree to the Assembly of the Republic — as always happens in the case of surrender — the authors of the decree have dedicated themselves to the purge of unconstitutional norms. We did what we did a week ago with other decrees. We have done what derives from the Constitution, with serenity, with a sense of responsibility, without reopening the legislative process, because to it there is no place, and I very much appreciate the availability of the Members of PSD Monica Quintela and Catarina Rocha Ferreira. The Constitutional Court’s judgment No 123 / 2021 meant, either in relation to the definitive injury, or in relation to its extreme gravity, or, finally, with regard to the requirement for a scientific consensus, with the object of definitive injuries of extreme gravity, there was a violation of the principle of the determination of laws. In turn, as I have already said, contrary to the understanding of the President of the Republic, he did not do the same with regard to the concept of « intolerable suffering ». The removal of these unconstitutionalities resulted from a careful and exhaustive analysis of the judgment, of the path pointed out by it, in terms of comparative law, and thus it was possible to densify the concepts, in order to, in our view, meet the obstacles of a legal and constitutional nature indicated. That is how, with all serenity, we comply with the Constitution on behalf of the people. It's not what they expect from us, it's what they demand from us. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u11	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor now for an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The presidential veto to the law which this Parliament has passed, by a large majority, and which decriminalises the death of medicine assisted under very circumscribed conditions, was founded on a judgment of the Constitutional Court that it is important to remember. The Constitutional Court then unequivocally stated that there is no unconstitutionality of principle in decriminalization. The thesis, often called for, that the right to life, as provided for in Article 24. that of the Constitution, it must not be harmonized with other equally fundamental rights—such as the right to free development of personality—was revealed without support in the Constitutional Court and those who tried to lay it down as the basis of the judgment required by the President of the Republic to the Court. The Constitutional Court was clear: the right to life does not impose a duty to live and it is therefore legitimate for the parliamentary legislature to decriminalise assisted death in very limited circumstances. What the Constitutional Court has won is that, in order for this to happen, the parameters of this decriminalization, which have been poured into law, must be as precise and as undetermined as possible. And it was to be understood that this requirement was not fully safeguarded in relation to a concept — the concept of « definitive injury » — and only in relation to it, which, at this particular point, judged unconstitutional the diploma approved in the Assembly of the Republic. That, and only that, was the basis for the return of the decree to the Assembly of the Republic by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u13	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u14	With all the sense of responsibility that the subject requires, the parliamentary groups and the authors of the projects that gave rise to the law did a stopped work to improve their writing to meet the concerns of the constitutional judge. The proposal for an amendment, which is now brought here, is the result of the adoption of techniques and normative content suggested in the Constitutional Court's own judgment, which has not been excused to point out paths already accepted, either in national law or in foreign law, to provide the nuclear concepts of this law with the necessary destability. We have done what we have to do, in the name of responsibility and weighting that we have always done in this long and demanding legislative process. Each political force associated with the proposed amendment here today has committed itself with the greatest commitment and loyalty to the timely legal improvement of the law. This should be the case: this study and this effort of convergence allow us to conclude today, past decades of discussion in the society and years of parliamentary debate, a complex legislative work that opens the way to respect for the dignity of each person at the end of their lives. It is due to a special word of recognition to Mrs Isabel Moreira for her tireless contribution, in terms of legal knowledge and in terms of political articulation, for the strength and quality of this step. The Left Block is once again conquering today that the adoption of a law that combines prudence with determination, tolerance with rigour, that does not force anyone to go against his will and that does not allow anyone to have a death that grossly violates the demands of dignity that this person imposes throughout his life is a step that we must take. With the improvement we now propose, the constitutional motivation that was the only one that founded the presidential veto is exceeded. And precisely because it was only for constitutional reasons that the President of the Republic did not promulgate Parliament's law, there is no longer any obstacle to its full adoption. This should be, for the sake of tolerance, for the benefit of a diversified struggle against all unnecessary and unwanted suffering, in the name of respect for the Constitution, in the name of a democracy which it respects. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u15	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are closing today in this House the process of decriminalizing euthanasia. It is the culmination of a process that led to a deep debate, participated and pondered in Portuguese society, a debate whose depth corresponds to the importance and seriousness of the matter. The Liberal Initiative, consistent with its programme, is one of the authors of the proposed amendment to the decree that we have discussed here today and that we consider responding to the issues raised by the Constitutional Court. This is due very much to the contributions which many associations and many citizens have made to the legislative process and also to the constructive collaboration which the proposing parties have been able to establish between themselves. Everyone, and allow me to particularise Mrs. Isabel Moreira, we thank you gratefully. As I mentioned here during the general discussion, no one will deny the sensitivity with which we should address this matter. It is not easy to confront ourselves with our finitude. It's not easy to talk about the end. But the decision of the end must be ours, because life, from the beginning to that end, is what we believe and what we do, freely, informed and consciously. The decisions about where to go and who to go are ours, the decisions about the struggles we fight and the outcomes we choose are ours. Only we will be able to know and so, until the last moment, no one can, no one should be able to decide our life for us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u17	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The defence of an existence, a dignified life, must take account of, necessarily, the defence of a equally worthy death. The decriminalization of assisted drug death is a civilizational framework of deep respect for human freedom. There is no time marked for the defence of human rights and dignity. Every time they count, every minute they count for people in intolerable suffering. And this law did not come in time for many people, but it will certainly arrive in time for many more people. It was with pride that I integrated this very important discussion—and that at the moment it has a high urgency—for the human freedom and dignity that all individuals deserve.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u19	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is shameful to be discussing this when Parliament is about to change a majority. In fact, the rush is so significant that a new Parliament is coming to discuss this issue that they want to approve it 'at the three stages', without the authorities being able to hear the final text that arrives here today, to this plenary. Yes, it is important for the Portuguese to know that the final text to be voted on tomorrow was not the subject of hearing by many of the entities that should have been heard. And the reason is just one: is that the left and the extreme left are afraid that a new Parliament will change the composition it currently has to make this amendment. During the pandemic, we left so many people behind. Where are the 800 palliative care beds they promised? Where is the strengthening of end-of-life medical care that António Costa had promised in 2015 and 2016?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u21	What does that have to do with it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u22	None of this has been done and what they want to leave as a memory of this legislature is the assisted death approved in this Parliament, perhaps a clear and brief sign of what this socialist legislature was. I would like to make it very clear to Portugal and to the Portuguese that, if the arrival has the strength to do so in the next Parliament — I take this dignified and solemn commitment here — we return this legislation and we will return it to the far-left fleets and marginals that have led to the adoption of this document. It remains the faithful and solemn commitment to the country all that the Arrival will once again propose in this Chamber, but a new Assembly takes possession, the reversal of drug death assisted by Portugal, the Portuguese and the human dignity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u23	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u24	Mr. President and Mr. Members : Turning to the seriousness of this debate,... [[PCP, PS, BE and PEV applause.]] ... the opposition of the CFP in relation to the initiatives on the legalization of euthanasia, which are today again, in question, is well known and was clearly expressed in the debates that were held here in the last two legislatures. However, what we are talking about today is not to repeat these debates as if the legislative process were at the beginning or even in the middle. This is not the case today. The text approved in this House, against which the CFP voted, was declared unconstitutional following a request for preventive supervision by Mr. President of the Republic, and what is discussed today is the assessment of the adjustments to this text made by the proposers in order to overcome the constitutional objections made by the Constitutional Court. The CFP will maintain its sense of vote, but does not call into question the inalienable legitimacy of the Assembly of the Republic to decide on this matter. The Assembly of the Republic is in full office and is not a new legislative process.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u26	The legislative process, whether or not it agrees with its content, has been completed, and what is now being said is to reconsider the terms proposed for the amendment of the text then approved. If the terms now proposed will be sufficient to solve the problems of unconstitutionality raised by the Constitutional Court we do not know. The PCP has never made its disagreement regarding the legalization of euthanasia in the controversial terrain of its constitutionality. On this point, the Constitutional Court has spoken and can do it again if the issue is raised by those in law. At this stage, the CFP will keep the vote against it during the legislative process. It is an option that was not taken lightly. It's not based on manicausts or ideas made. It is an option that results in a profound reflection on a topic that, because of its complexity, because of its concerns and the importance of the values at stake, dispenses any attitude of intellectual arrogance or any invocation of moral superiority. The CFP has always refused to view the debate on euthanasia as a war of trenches, religions against atheisms, left-wing people against right-wing people, enlightened against obscurantists. The PCP is a secular and left party and bases its positions on a reflection where no dogmas or preconceived ideas fit. What is at stake is a legislative option and not a judgment on individual consciences. What is decided is an option of the State rather than of individuals. What is decided is not about the individual option of each individual over the end of his life, but the attitude to be taken by the State regarding the final phase of the life of his citizens. Individual autonomy is something that must be respected, but an organized society is not a mere sum of individual autonomys. The legislator cannot take a legislative option on the life and death of people without taking into account the circumstances and social consequences of this option. This is not a debate between those who value the dignity of human life and those who devalue it. The dignity of every human being in the face of the circumstances of his own death is something that no one is able to judge. The individual dignity is not discussed here, whoever it is. What is being discussed is whether a State that denies many citizens the means to live decently must offer them the legal means to anticipate death. The Portuguese State cannot continue to deny to most of its citizens the health care they need, particularly in times of greatest suffering. The creation of a network of palliative care with universal character must be an absolute priority. Of course, no one here understands euthanasia as a substitute for palliative care — that is not what is at stake — but, for the CFP, there is a question that is undisturbed: a country should not create legal instruments to help die when it does not guarantee material conditions to help live.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u29	The evolution of science and technique has allowed advances in medicine that were unthinkable a few years ago. This evolution is inexorable and is increasingly rapid.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u30	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u31	I shall conclude, Mr President. The question is that the resources available are put to the service of the whole community. Through good medical practices that reject the use of therapeutic obstination and respect the autonomy of individual will, expressed through the anticipated manifestations of will that the law already allows, the duty of the State is to ensure that death is always assisted, but not anticipated. in a framework where the value of human life often arises relativized according to criteria of social utility, economic interests, family responsibilities and charges or public expenditure, the legalization of euthanasia will add new risks that we cannot avoid. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u32	Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are facing a long path for human dignity. Citizens and citizens who wait, who yearn for a legislative scenario that sees greater dignity for those who believe that they are the best option in certain conditions of their life. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the law cannot be moralizing, but it can and should be fair. Justice serves and defends those who suffer, who have no cure for their clinical condition and who, regardless of the opinion of third parties, has the right to make decisions about their own life. This has been a serious debate, extended to all spheres of civil society. In fact, the complexity of this matter requires it. All of them were able to present their views, but we can never forget those and those to whom this law is addressed. In March of this year, in response to a request for preventive supervision by the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court delivered its opinion, considering that there is an indeterminate character of a concept that needed to be clarified. However, we recall that this Court considered that the inviolability of human life enshrined in the Constitution does not constitute an insurmountable obstacle to decriminalizing, under certain conditions, the anticipation of the death of assisted medicine. And, therefore, some elected members and some elected members of this House have worked together again to bring a text back to consideration and appreciation, in order to achieve this much-wanted legal framework. A legal framework of dignity, a legal framework which has repeatedly been postponed, through various devices that only prevent a dignified end-of-life response to whom it has decided to resort. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, no one here can claim the right, on behalf of his moral precepts, to prevent the express will of a person from putting an end to his own life in the forms defined by this proposal. This proposal makes it clear that the application may be revoked at any time in the proceedings. Ensures a systematic assessment of the sick person at all times. With this proposal, the person will have all information on existing alternatives, in particular as regards palliative and continuing care. It is, we well know, the duty of the State to ensure that these answers exist, it is the duty of the law to ensure that people have the right to decide when they are in the conditions described in the law decree. What can not be done is to continue to delay this issue. There is no justification for the injustice that these successive delays bring to individual human dignity and to people's suffering. We simply do not have that right, none of us present here. We therefore hope that, with this proposal, we can effectively show total respect for the people who are in these difficult circumstances and that there is the ethical capacity to put human dignity above personal and individual precepts. [[PAN and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u34	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are now in a position to finalize the legislative process with a view to being given a law that defines the conditions under which the death of assisted medicine can be practised. Today, when we review the decree, it should be noted that the Constitutional Court does not place any reservations on the central issue, on the concept itself, i.e. assisted drug death is not unconstitutional. by referring in the judgment — which, moreover, supported the decision of the President of the Republic — that «the right to live cannot be transformed into a duty to live under any circumstances», the Constitutional Court is very clear: in situations of suffering-limits there may be legislative solutions, provided that due caution is ensured. Therefore, there is no doubt about this. It follows that, nevertheless, the Constitutional Court has made some repairs on some concepts which it considers to be indeterminate and what we have done, over these months, was to work on a text that would respond to the reservations raised. It was a deep work that involved, above all, the proposing parties and from which the contribution of Mrs. Isabel Moreira, who, with all her commitment, allowed a consensualized text and which, at the same time, answers the observations or doubts raised by the Constitutional Court. We therefore subscribe to the amendments which are under discussion today, because in our view they remove all the reservations expressed in the above-mentioned judgment. We are therefore in a position to conclude a legislative process which has been involved and a broad debate, perhaps as few legislative processes in this House. It is a diploma that establishes a process surrounded by all precautions and guarantees, which is possible only in very particular situations and determined and very well defined in the law, which requires a conscious, free and informed request and which can be revoked at any time and without any formalism. It is therefore a good law for which the Greens have also contributed to their proposals. Two further notes: the first to regret the fact that the Greens' proposal, on the guarantee of death assisted medicine can only be possible within the SNS (National Health Service ), did not deserve the consent of all banks. This was an important assumption for us, because if there are matters that must be out of the reach of the market this is one of them. What the Greens intended, in particular, was to remove the private sector, which, by its nature, aims only to obtain profit. This was a way to ensure that assisted drug death did not become a business factor. The second note is to say that this law at nothing can contribute to reducing, smoothing or de-responsibility of the State with regard to its duty to ensure patient access to palliative care and to ensure a good network of continued care. As we know, there is a Basic Law on Palliative Care and if there is no greater investment in this care, as well as in continuing care, it is because over time there have been those who exchanged this investment for other priorities, such as deficit values. from the Greens, we will continue to demand the necessary investment in palliative care and a good network of continued care. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Greens consider that we are before a balanced law which guarantees the essential: security and compliance with legal criteria. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u36	I now give the floor to Mrs Rodrigues who did not register Cristina Rodrigues for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Constitutional Court understood, well, that «the right to life cannot be transformed into a duty to live in any circumstance», as well as that there is legitimacy in Parliament to legislate on this matter. Therefore, the criticisms made to this agenda really have a moral and religious basis and do not necessarily have the opportunity to discuss the matter. It is always appropriate to discuss human rights and the right that each of us has, with autonomy and freedom, to live according to its values and its vision of the world. We have a duty to respond to those who suffer intolerably, giving them the opportunity to choose how and when they want to die. It is natural that not everyone agrees with the death of assisted medicine, but I remember that it is not a duty, but a right. No patient is obliged to opt for assisted drug death, but neither should he be forced to live in suffering without any hope of improvement. No doctor is obliged to practice it, but neither should he be forced to witness this suffering without being able to act, even at the request of the patient, because the law so imposes. This is not a matter of life or death, it is a matter of freedom. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u38	For an intervention, Mr Adam Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the re-evaluation of Decree No 109 / XIV on drug-assisted death, I will say nothing about the essence of the issue which already had the overall final vote on 29 January this year. I do not open to controversy about what will be best and what will be worse with the amendments, which, just two days ago, have been distributed to the parliamentary groups. Nor will I allow myself to be drawn by the normal controversy of whether, with these proposals, the unconstitutionalities which judgment No 123 / 2021 of the Constitutional Court has pointed out are in fact removed. No, I am not going there, because I am imposing the delicate and scrupulous task of respecting the diversity of thought that, virtually — I repeat, virtuously — exists on the bench of the Social Democratic Party in relation to this great issue. I would also like to focus on three formal and circumstantial aspects that I understand are relevant. First, on 15 March 2021, the President of the Republic vetoed and returned to Parliament Decree No 109 / XIV, concerning the conditions under which the anticipation of the death of assisted medicine is not punishable, as resulted from the Constitutional Court's ruling on the unconstitutionality of various rules. For more than 230 days—I repeat, 230 days! — from that date, until 3 November, no parliamentary group submitted any proposal to amend Decree No 109 / XIV, capable of exceeding, or not, the unconstitutionalities declared. It's now, on 25th. the time, at the time of the end of the current legislation, which are presented several amendments. Second, legislation on death and life is the supreme challenge of any legislator. Is it complex? It is. Is it delicate? It is. Is it socially convulsive? It is. Is it reckless? It is, too. If so, the legislator must redouble prudence, serenity and rigour. I understand, however, that in current circumstances, with this political crisis and with the dissolution of Parliament today to be announced, the conditions of prudence, serenity and rigour that are necessary are not created, always in the legislative action and that they are absolutely indispensable in matters of transcendental scope such as euthanasia. [[PSD applause.]] Thirdly, it is well in view of all the urgency of this legislative act. If it is not completed in the next few days, here in Parliament, the whole process will fall, because of whom, for more than 230 days, I never wanted to move forward, and everything will eventually have to start again in the next Parliament. However, no one guarantees that, under current political and institutional conditions, the President of the Republic promulgated the Decree incorporating the proposed amendments now submitted. Nobody! If so, it will be expected to result in a new and incorrigible procedural inconsequence. And the question that I leave for everyone is whether it will be unwise, also from the point of view of Parliament's reputation, we will be legislating on this matter at a last-minute frenzy. Reiterate: this debate on euthanasia cannot be made of drowning. Do so, now, in this forced, extemporaneous way, giving rise to a provocation to Portuguese institutions and society in general, contributing to a dangerous devaluation of our democracy and social tranquillity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u40	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke also for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I should like to begin by informing the House, as President of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, that there is no doubt that all members of the CDS-PP will vote on this issue in complete freedom, but that without surprise they will vote against. Why? Because our party has always had this position: we are against euthanasia, we are against euthanasia for a matter of principle and values, we are against euthanasia because we are today, as we have always been, defenders of the supreme value of human life. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u42	from our point of view, this diploma corresponds, moreover, to what could be called a death drive, and the doubts that would have to be resolved in this final text were not. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is not a matter, as has been said, of legality, legal proceedings or parliamentary proceedings. We admit that it is not a matter of formal legality. What this diploma is missing from here and now, after the hour or at 25. The time, as we wish, is good sense. It is, above all, a matter of common sense or, better said, the lack of it! In the close of Parliament, on the way to its dissolution and new elections, when management no longer serves anything, another management was formed to approve euthanasia, one in which is no longer the CFP, which shows that it is not a left/right issue, which is replaced by the Liberal Initiative. The only management that works here will make this approval of Parliament in an absolutely deterministic and manician way. They decided and ready! It doesn't matter anymore. They always act like this. Shortly after the previous Parliament had plunged this matter, without the electoral programmes referring to it, they moved forward with the euthanasia process. It should be remembered that they refused the referendum proposals because they did not want the Portuguese people to be able to analyze and decide on the same subject. They had a lead of the Constitutional Court, and we remember very well what some parties in the past said when the Constitutional Court had a matter: that one could not rule against the Constitution, that it was necessary to think, that it was necessary to consider, that one should not act hastily before the decisions of the Constitutional Court! But now none of this has been valid and they have lost the opportunity of reflection to which the lead of the Constitutional Court invited. No one has heard of the text they cooked I don't know where — eventually, in a cabinet of this palace! I repeat: no one knew of this text; he actually arrived now. The National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, the professional orders, which have always been against and which are linked to this matter, especially that of doctors, nurses and psychologists, did not know about your text! The Members themselves did not know this text because it does not matter at all, what is important is to act quickly and close this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u43	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u44	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. The text came one day after another, did not resolve the indetermination and, curiously, the honourable Members. Members have not explained how they have resolved. Did you notice that? Oh, my God! They have not come to explain the solution and why it is better. Therefore, it does not solve and it does not even give time and consciousness to Members to be able to appreciate this matter. I would say, even to conclude, that we will not give up, because this is a matter of consciousness, whether from a constitutional point of view, or with a new majority. Mr President, there would be no more sad closure for this legislature than to approve euthanasia in this way and in a hurry. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u45	Mr Moreira has the floor again for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to thank the kind, probably over-exaggerated words that led me to work, in fact, very quickly, in a period that, as you know, was the most difficult thing in my life. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, it took many days, it took a long time to redefine the rules that were the subject of the Constitutional Court's judgment, precisely because it has to be read with time and seriousness and because it has to look at the Comparative Law that is referred to by the Constitutional Court's judgment. I am very sorry to see Members of the PSD and the CDS disparaging Parliament this way. I'm really sorry! The gentlemen. Members know, because even last week decrees were re-appreciated in exactly the same way, which is how these parliamentary moments take place. That's how it's done. at this moment, we reformulate the diploma and send it back to the President of the Republic. Who we have to hear is the Constitutional Court, and not entities that have already been heard. As for 25. The hour, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't tell you anything but this: I, as a woman, and all the women have physical fear of the right you have become. [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests.]] At 25. the time was when, on the last day of your Legislature, they turned into dust a law legitimized by a referendum and threw us, women, again to the danger of clandestine abortion and prison. That is what you did on the last day of your Legislature, so you have a bit of decency when you speak in 25. The hour. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u47	You have the floor to speak to Mr Adam Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u48	Mr President, first of all I want to say that the PSD Parliamentary Group respects this Parliament. The PSD was one of the constituent parties of democracy and of this democratic Parliament and this Parliament cannot accept the harsh, meaningless and absolutely disgruntled words of Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Isabel Moreira, more tolerance and less arrogance would be good for you. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] For PSD, the foundation stone is freedom, and you are not in a position to subtract freedom from any of the Members of this House, much less from my parliamentary group. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u49	Mr Telmo Correia asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u50	To defend the honor of the bench, Mr. President. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u51	Mr President, you have to explain first the reason why you ask for honor. [[CDS-PP protests.]] But very quickly, Mr President, so that I can give you the floor. As you know, that is what the Rules of Procedure require me to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u52	Mr President, I am hoping that there will be conditions in the Chamber so that you will understand my reasoning. The reason why I asked for the word to defend the honor of the bench has to see, in addition to the references to physical fear and other things in relation to a right that I would integrate, with the fact that Mrs Isabel Moreira said that the CDS and its parliamentary bench were disparaging this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u53	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u54	So please explain that they were not despicable.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u55	Mr President, as if it were necessary... I think you would have no doubt, or should you have them, given the years in which you are here. I also sincerely believe, and without any further personal consideration, that Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira would perhaps have some obligation to know a little about the history of this Parliament and the bench where I belong to not to make such considerations. Without telling you any more, I think you would have an obligation to that. That is why I would like to say to you that this bench has been here since the first elected Parliament and that, in this matter, it has never held any other position. Ask, without fear, people who are close to you what they think about this matter. No fear! This is what we defend: we defend life, and we defend-CL- always. Even to finish, Mrs. Member, I wanted to tell you not to be afraid, because we are good people, we are democrats and serene people. We are afraid of what this Parliament is disparaging, which is the radicalism and secrecy with which this process has taken place. The honourable Member arrives here and knows everything. Don't! The Members will vote tomorrow, with freedom of vote, and they have known the text a few hours ago. It is unacceptable, it is shameful and this is what Parliament despises. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u56	In order to explain, if you understand it, you have the floor of Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u57	Mr. President, Mr. Member, I don't think I've offended the honor of any... [[But it was!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u58	... when I said that, in my opinion, they were disparaging Parliament by saying that this was done in secret,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u59	But it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u60	...in a quarter, maybe in a closed room, when the gentlemen. Members know very well, precisely because they have been here for many years—and I know very well the history of the CDS, the PSD and all these parties—as the process unfolds when a diploma is returned after a veto. The gentlemen. Members have already done this and they know perfectly well that the legislative process is not reopened. You know perfectly well that you don't go to a committee that opens up work, with advisers. You know it's not like that! So when I say the gentlemen. Members are conveying this anti-parliamentary voice by saying that this was done in a dark, hidden room, and that this despising Parliament, I do not know what I am offending the benches. I am stressing one fact, because it is despicable for Parliament to say that this has been done underground in a quarter! It was not, Mr. Member, that two PSD Members participated, because, as you know, reformulation is done...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u61	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u62	On the other hand, when I said I felt the physical fear of the right in which they turned was as a woman. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The gentlemen. Members say « to 25. the hour» when it was 25. the time, on the last day of that legislation, which gave birth to a law that had a reference basis. Yes, Mr. Deputy, I feel physical fear, me and all the women. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u63	We have thus reached the end of the first item on the agenda. We turn to the second point, the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 176 / XIV — Amendment to the rules for the framework of the Local Economy Support Programme. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The veto in the opinion of Mr. President of the Republic is a direct and expected consequence of the denunciation of the Democratic Social Party. As we have always stated, the objective of the Socialist Party's legislative initiative was never, truly, to simplify the rules of the PAEL (Local Economy Support Programme), but only to amnesty, forgive and excuse autocratics with pending sanction procedures due to serious violation of the rules of this programme and which, to the limit, can lead to the loss of their respective mandates. [[PSD applause.]] Autarchs whose faces the PS knew in advance what they were, but which, by virtue of the works in the specialty, are today the knowledge of all. They are the faces of the socialist autarchs in the municipal chambers of Customs of the Faith, Aljustrel, Cartaxo and Covilhã, which is joined by the Municipal Chamber of Évora, chaired by the PCP. A small group that has already belonged to the mayor of Vila Nova de Gaia City Hall, meanwhile acquitted in the process of judicial appeal, proves that justice works and that this is neither a blind nor an unjust law. Well, on the last day of the 2nd. the Legislative Session, with Parliament closing doors for holidays, the PS trusted in the architectural legislative disguise and believed that the thing was going to pass away, as if the opposition was blind, the public opinion was deaf and the President of the Republic was changed. No, it didn't! [[PSD applause.]] It is worth noting that Mr. President of the Republic does not rely solely on reasons of a temporary nature to justify his veto, in particular the fact that the diploma has been submitted for promulgation at a time after the actual elections have been convened and that the deadline for submission of candidatures is even longer. Mr President of the Republic goes further and deals with the content of the legislative initiative itself. In fact, when Mr President of the Republic confirms that it is the course of the diploma, in fact, of the possible failure to apply sanctions to a precise and limited number of local authorities, reinforcing that it can result in reputational damage to the authorities and the authorities, and not specifically to those authorities and the autarchs, it is simply suggesting to Parliament, elegantly, that it alter its content. That is exactly the objective of the proposed amendments of the Social Democratic Party. We maintain the amendments that lead to the flexibility of the rules of the programme, but we eliminate the intolerable, unacceptable and unjustified amnesty reflected in the veto diploma, thus avoiding Parliament adopting a law with photography, when the law should be general and abstract, a law that does not benefit the compulsors, but only the alleged prevaric autarchs, a deeply unjust law, which forbids those who committed or could have committed serious illegalities in the PAEL, but does not prevent other autarchs from being punished by similar acts, including minor acts, only because they were practiced outside the PAEL. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u65	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The decree we reconsidered basically has two intentions within the framework of the PAEL. On the one hand, it provides that municipalities that do not perform the financial balance are not automatically obliged to raise the IMI (municipal property tax) to the maximum rate, and can opt for another measure with equal impact on revenue, which is positive. But, on the other hand, it intends to ban autocrats—and, strangely, there are only five socialist authors and a communist author in this situation—who have committed serious illegalities and whose process is pending. Well, this is negative and even dangerous. It is dangerous because it is another sign that it is sent to all Portuguese not only to get anywhere you want with the right party card as once you get there, if you can do whatever you want, because that card protects us from the law. We call on the Members of the PS, the CFP, the ENP and the non-registered Member who have approved this diploma, as it is, to reject it now and to vote in favour of the proposed amendments. contrary to what the PCP and the ENP seem to invoke, this decree is not about the merits or demerits of the PAEL, but about whether injustice can prevail, about whether there are privileges in the eyes of the law and about whether accountability for acts is irrelevant. For us, in the Liberal Initiative, the answer to all these questions is obviously « no».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u67	Demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u68	Mr Luís Moreira Testa, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With due respect, we are appreciating a presidential veto, and it is about him that we have to land on. With regard to the veto, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group responds with a position that concentrates on valuing local power and its autonomy, on the decision-making capacity of the local governing bodies and, therefore, we reaffirm our position on the content and subject matter that has already been the subject of wide, advanced discussion, hearings to various entities and on which we had the opportunity to pronounce ourselves. Moreover, what the PSD Parliamentary Group is trying to do, on the basis of the presidential veto, is to reprisal its own proposals in the field of expertise to object to the continued pursuit of the aims of local power autonomy in this country. In fact, we have a very firm and assertive position on this matter with regard to our purposes. What we intend to defend is the autonomy of the financial balance of the municipalities, but that this cannot burden the populations, to burden those who are net contributors of each municipality, thus protecting the position of the autarchs who at the same time defend the municipalities and populations of these same municipalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u70	There are those who do and those who do not!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u71	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nelson Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP is in favour of ending certain excessive demands that condition the autonomy of municipalities and limit their development within the framework of the EAP. For us, if a municipality has proven to have corrected bad financial practices and to have followed the path of financial sustainability, it should not be penalized, because such penalty, following the typical recipe of troika times, is unjustified, disproportionate and should be reviewed. at this point, we could no longer agree with the Socialist Party. We have even put forward an initiative which was also in this direction and which, in fact, went further and sought to prevent these limitations, when necessary, from jeopardizing the structural areas of public policy. What we do not follow, and that we vote against this decree we again appreciate today, is the letter of acquittal and the whitening of crimes and violations of autarchs that the PS has approved on the basis of this fair initiative. This savings letter was not on the NAP initiative. Moreover, in addition to safeguarding certain structural areas, it was one of the distinguishing points of the two initiatives. However, it was plunged, with the abstention of the PS and the vote against the PSD. This amendment which the PS proposed here, by bringing forgiveness to the mismanagement and injury of the public interest, follows the wrong path and gives a wrong signal from Parliament to civil society. in this way, and in the face of such concerns, we could not fail to congratulate Mr President of the Republic on this veto, stressing, however, that, contrary to what is stated in the veto, we believe that this diploma is not negative because there are autoarchics at the moment of their approval, but rather by the whitening of the mismanagement of the public money it brings. in this debate, we will maintain our vote against this decree and present two very simple proposals, which consistently resume the proposals we made here just a few months ago. The first is to allow Parliament to correct the mistake it made at the past Legislative Session and to remove the savings letter that was intended to be given to the autarchs. The second objective is to enhance the rights of taxpayers, which should not be penalized by the mismanagement of their authorships. We therefore propose that, without compromising responsible budgetary management, the model of semi-automatic application of the maximum rate of IMI, which is contained in the decree we are discussing today, be avoided by ensuring that a model that gives priority to the adoption of alternative measures, increase in revenue or decrease in expenditure, ensure the achievement of results equivalent to those that would be obtained through the application of the maximum rate of IMI and that these results are not taken into account by reducing expenditure in the areas of education, health, housing, social protection, animal protection and the environment. These proposals value the good management of public money and follow the path of Parliament's credibility towards civil society, so we hope that they will accompany us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u73	After all, the spirit of the troika survives!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u74	It is not the spirit of the troika, it is the spirit of not making silences!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u75	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as they want to talk about the troika, the truth is that on 26 June, the news of the day was as follows: « Autarchs of the Cartago are free from failure to comply with the PAEL ». This was the image which we gave to the country in this House of the Republic. You may come up with the arguments you want, the troika, of the restrictions, but the news of that day was: « Autarchs who failed were saved by a parliamentary pardon».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u77	It was a court case! It was nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u78	That is the truth of the image that Parliament has given, because socialist and communist autarchs were involved in non-compliance processes. And no, Mr, it is not just a matter of raising the IMI to the maximum rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u79	You want me to make a doll? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u80	In the Charter, for example, what is at stake is a expenditure with staff that was 5 million and that went to 7 million, and we are spending a glove on it! We can say what we want, but the image we give out is that the autarchs can fail, when 300 other autarchs had to comply.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u81	Some may! Some, just some!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u82	The image that passes is that there are some who have white paper and others do not. This is accompanied by the insensity of what we have done at the gates of an authentic election and of having to be the President of the Republic to warn Parliament about the shame that it would be at the gates of a elections to be giving a white letter to each other and closing the door to others.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u84	We are taking a lesson of boys, because of you here in Parliament, when we all warned that this was on the way to precipice and that it was a shame for this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u85	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u86	I shall conclude by saying that we are here today and we hope that there will be a good sense of sending back a law that shames us all as politicians.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u87	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is interesting that we have already spoken of Parliament's contempt today, because this veto which we are now re-appreciating from my point of view is one of the great moments of contempt of Parliament, because it has tried, at the top of it, to make an amnesty of some autarchs. In good time, therefore, this diploma was vetoed and in good time the President of the Republic drew attention to a number of problems, including that of having been submitted after the holding of elections and not having applied sanctions to a specific number of authorities. In agreement with these objections by Mr President of the Republic, I believe that our objections to the diploma are far deeper, because they are not just for time and time. I believe that the diploma makes no sense in the molds at any time, even if there are no elections. Let us be frank: it was not just sanctions to authorities; we were here discussing, above all, sanctions to autarchs and it is not worth pretending that this was not a law with faces and names — we all know that — curiously, politically oriented. I would also like to say something here, since I have spoken in the spirit of the troika. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, debts are to be paid and commitments are to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u90	These are principles of any decent person and good, have nothing to do with the troika. when they say "debt yourselves, whoever comes after you pay, there's no problem" they're fooling people! They want commitments signed and there are no consequences for those who do not comply with the law, because Parliament will then make an amnesty at the top! With all honesty, we can invoke the troika for whatever we want, but it was not necessary to invoke it. I'm glad it was a long time ago, and it wasn't thanks to the gentlemen, it was thanks and these benches here. I'm glad the troika has been a long time ago! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] But this question has nothing to do with the troika, it has to do with good sense and with what things are. So if we are just talking about replacing the mandatory increase in IMI by other ways of increasing the revenue or even reducing the revenue — I will go there — we will obviously have an opening for the discussion, but for amnesty to the couch not.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u92	I would like to understand better the NAP proposals. First, technically, they want to earn the revenue by reducing the expenditure. But no more revenue can be obtained by reducing the expenditure, it can be achieved the same objective of balance. I therefore believe that the proposal should be corrected in this respect. Secondly, I believe that the proposal is formulated in such a completely canal way that it leaves virtually nothing outside. The only thing the authorities usually do that I see out there, with all the frankness, is the maintenance of green spaces and cemeteries and I think that neither the NAP wanted to leave out of the reduction of expenditure, because that would not even be consistent with the rest of what it is proposing. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u93	Mr Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have discussed here this subject on the amendments to the PAEL and I would like to begin this intervention by addressing Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, because since the beginning of this discussion, he had had time to study and know... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u95	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u96	... that the PAEL of the municipality of Évora is not the responsibility of the CDU, but, yes, of the PS. It had already taken time, too, to know that the process has been archived since 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u97	2019!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u98	We're in 2021. Therefore, the PCP and the CDU are not in this photograph that Mr. Deputies wants to show here. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not surprising that the parties responsible for the PAEL — in particular the PSD and the CDS — make this discussion abstract and without mentioning the consequences of this programme in particular, a programme which was a true pact of aggression for municipalities and populations, a programme that contained an increase in taxes, rates and rates, an increase in prices associated with the supply of water, sanitation and waste for populations, a limitation of the activity of municipalities with regard to the provision of public services and, in particular, support for the association movement and collectivities. Those, yes, were the consequences of the PAEL!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u99	That's not true! You don't know PAEL!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u100	It was precisely because of these consequences that the CFP has always been against this programme, always opposed it and will continue to be against any of these consequences that penalise the populations. [[PCP applause.]] This is what PSD and CDS do not admit, because, for them, what was good, that was positive and that they really wanted to continue penalizing populations. Having the possibility of finding solutions that have disgusted the people, we do not increase prices and taxes, then we follow these solutions. The PSD and the CDS did not report that they imposed this program on the municipalities, with these consequences for the populations, at the same time that they cut wages, at the same time that they cut pensions, at the same time that they cut social benefits. These are aspects that well reveal the options of the PSD Government and the CDS. Only by ignorance, bad faith or manipulation can Évora be invoked as the target municipality of this law. The Evora PAEL was subscribed in 2013 by the PS, when its management of the authority, and it was during the management of the CDU — the management of the CDU, listen well! — that the financial recovery of this municipality was possible, recognised in 2019 with the liquidation of this programme and the filing by decision of the Court of Auditors of alleged non-compliances. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say the following: Mr President of the Republic, in his message to the House, did not invoke any concrete aspect relating to the content of the decree. It justified the veto with a question of opportunity, however already exceeded. Therefore, from the PCP, we consider that the most appropriate solution is the confirmation of this decree. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u101	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Maria Cardoso has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Even at the risk of repeating arguments that have been brought up relatively recently, a few months ago, I begin by saying what we have always said. The opposition of the Left Block to the Local Economy Support Program is structural. It has to do with the fundamentals that sustain it, with the constraints resulting from its application and with the intrusion into the exercise of local power. PAEL was created in 2012 and it is one of the most unfortunate heritages of the troika, of the responsibility of PSD/CDS – it is always good to remember – but it is true that the PS is afraid not to revoke. The PAEL demanded the municipalities a set of conditionalisms that functioned as financial garrots which reverted to the disadvantage of the populations, with these double losses: they were forced to bear taxes and municipal rates by the maximum limit and, in many cases, many services were withdrawn with the justification that they were not profitable. If budgetary imbalances had to be corrected, often by mismanagement, then it would have been very important to ensure the balance of the future, but nothing was said about this. It worked as a remedy to the expenses of the monks and, therefore, our disagreement is fundamental, structural and not timely correction. The debate is the same as we have had for months, with the same reasons, but with a new one, added to an important fact: the presidential veto that needs to be examined. The presidential veto has two points which seem fundamental to us in relation to the reasons put forward by Mr President. The first point does not provoke electoral interference and even reputational damage to authorities and authorities. This point is over, it is true, because the elections have already taken place, even if perhaps there has been a bad effect. In the second point, the following can be read: ' may not apply sanctions to a precise and limited number of local authorities', i.e. this problem remains and is directly and objectively determined. Even if the waiter executives have changed, the problem remains and this is very explicit there. So we are not talking for any reason, it is not a matter of time, it is not a matter of moment, it is a matter of objective, of intention, of purpose, which is important to correct. It is not corrected, and that is why this reason is maintained. The project presented by the PS intends to simplify the adjustment plan regime, it is true, and the failure to apply the maximum IMI rate may be important. But this project refers to « unless it adopts alternative measures with the same impact that are realized in effective revenue ». It is important, however, to know what measures can be envisaged for this purpose. Here we agree with some issues raised in the NAP proposal, i.e. it is necessary to ensure that there are a number of services, including public services related to transport, water, supplies with social services, which cannot be the object of spending reduction to complement the possible reduction of the IMI. It is therefore necessary to distinguish exactly what it is possible or not to do, which is not heeded in this proposal. But the NAP proposes something that is important to us in Article 6 ( 8 ). it has a double interpretation. If, on the one hand, it can be understood as positive, because, in fact, it is necessary, increasingly, to create a legal framework that delimits when conditionalisms cease to exist, when there is no longer any way to condition the governmental action of each of the authorities, on the other hand, it seems to us, in part, made to have some aspect really related to the amnesty of the few pending cases which are in this substantial change.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u103	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u104	I'm done now, Mr. President. There is a great disagreement here that we cannot let it be clear and these were the reasons that led to our vote against the last time this diploma was voted. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u105	For an intervention, Mr Luís Moreira Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to specify a set of concepts, answering Mrs Cecilia Meireles. What we are discussing today, and what we have already discussed in due course in this House, is not if we amnesty a significant set of authorships for non-compliance. No, ma'am! What we are deciding today, and what we have already discussed in due time in this Chamber, is whether sanctions are applied to autoarchs who have fully complied with their obligations, who have reduced the debt, who have complied with the PAEL, using continuous revenue, own of the municipality, extraordinary, current or random and unique. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u107	This is the big question. We are trying to understand whether we apply sanctions or not apply sanctions to autarches that have fully complied with their obligations and the obligations of their municipalities. On the other hand, I would also like to say to Mrs Cecilia Meireles — and I even refer to this with some inconvenience — that comes here to discuss a diploma that you do not know and proposals for amendments you do not know, because, if you did know, you fully realized that only the municipalities that have fully fulfilled their obligations before the PAEL are covered by these amendments. Therefore, they will be freed from all applications the municipalities that have fulfilled the PAEL, so we only need to reaffirm our position and we will maintain our position of the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u108	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Paula Santos, I regret that the Portuguese Communist Party has been absent from the work carried out in the field of specialty regarding this draft law of the Socialist Party. You know why? If the honourable Member had set foot in our Commission, she would have noticed that the General Inspection of Finance on 5 May this year, said that the audit concerning the City Council of Évora was pending. The same response was offered by the Secretary of State for decentralization and Local Administration, in a message sent to the Commission, dated 4 June 2021. Mrs. Member, I repeat: pendant, pendant! [[PSD applause.]] Mr Luís Testa, no, the PAEL does not endorse any attack, as has been said, on the autonomy of the local power.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u110	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u111	PAEL was negotiated with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, of which the presidents of Chambers of the Socialist Party were members.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u112	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u113	It was not imposed on the authorities, it adhered to who wanted it, with full knowledge of its rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u114	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u115	Mr Moreira Testa, the PAEL voluntarily joined 103 of the 308 Portuguese municipalities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u116	Willingly? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u117	... that is, only one third and, of these, only six took place in the establishment of sanctions proceedings. [[PSD applause.]] In conclusion, I would like to say that the PAEL was, in fact, a very demanding programme and that it imposed many sacrifices, but you know, Mr. Deputies, 97 authorities, 97 chamber presidents have fulfilled,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u118	We bought 100 percent!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u119	...so 97 autoarchs had to make great sacrifices. And you know, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, what the PS does not want is to reward those 97 authors who have served and have made sacrifices. [[Well, well! It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u120	What the Socialist Party wants is to reward the six autocratics who have not complied with the agreements they have concluded, who have seriously violated the law, who have not made the sacrifices and who have watered themselves for the sacrifices of the rest of the country. This is all that is under discussion. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u121	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Luís Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira, in fact, you come here to denounce the true purpose of the Democratic Social Party and the Government that you supported at the time. The desire of you and the PSD/CDS Government was that the autarchs should have the possibility, the faculty, of applying more taxes to the populations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] That was the will of you Exa! This was the objective of V.E.A.: to make the populations suffer, which were badly attacked in their living conditions at that time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u123	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the second item on our agenda. We will move on to the third point, which consists in the general assessment of the Bill No 115 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Establishs measures to support and expedite business restructuring and payment agreements and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1023 on preventive restructuring schemes, debt forgiveness and inhibitions. You have the floor, to present the bill, the Minister of Justice, to whom I welcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The measures included in the proposed law which the Government submits to this Assembly of the Republic are structured - around three pillars - the implementation of reforms under the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) ; the transposition of the Restructuring Directive ; and the clarification of procedural and substantive aspects that promote unnecessary litigation in insolvency and recovery processes. In fact, despite the results achieved in recent years in the reduction of the number of pending insolvency processes, we had a breakdown of more than 50 %, and, in the average duration of the procedural phases up to the decision, the duration of such processes continues to be perceived as a factor affecting the conditions of competitiveness of the national economy. The increase in resilience in economic justice has thus become one of the objectives set out in the PRR, in its Component 18 entitled 'Economic Justice and the Business Environment', and has been identified constraints and entropies and measures to overcome them. This bill complies with a regulatory body of measures provided for in the RPP that aim to speed up insolvency and recovery processes. That is: the reduction of restrictions on the exercise of judicial administrator functions; the allocation of responsibility to the insolvency administrator to submit, together with the list of recognized credits, a graduation proposal allowing the judge, in the event of agreement and in the absence of objections, to approve the two documents by speeding up the process of processing; the assignment to the insolvency administrator of the task of drawing up a plan for the sale and settlement of the assets that constitute the insolvent mass with temporarily defined targets; and finally, the final consecration of the mandatory partial instalments in the insolvency process that had been instituted with the ENP ( Extraordinary Process of Viabilization of Companies). But this bill also complies with the obligation to transpose Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1023 on preventive restructuring and debt forgiveness, which implies the introduction of adjustments to the rules in force in the Special Revitalisation Process ( PER ). One of the main innovation notes is the grouping of creditors affected by the recovery plan in different categories depending on the existence of sufficient common interests. But because it is a measure that breaks with the national legal tradition on payment preferences, and also for the particular attention that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises justify, it is possible that they may choose not to treat affected parties in different categories of creditors, applying the existing rules of approval by most creditors, thereby safeguarding the existence of a more flexible insolvency process. Also relevant, and transposition is mandatory, is the suspension of enforcement measures pending negotiations between companies and their creditors. It prevents the establishment of new executions and the ongoing executions are suspended. But, in honor of the particular aims of the work credits, the executive actions for the collection of workers' claims are excluded from this suspension scheme. The concept of essential enforceable contracts protected within the framework of the PER is extended, now covering not only essential public services but all continuing implementation contracts which are necessary for the continuation of the company's normal activity, ensuring that during the suspension period, such contracts cannot be discontinued solely because of a lack of payment. It is ensured that creditors that during the RIP or the implementation of the approved recovery plan have financed the company’s activity, providing capital for its revitalization, enjoy a duty on the insolvent mass up to a value of 25 % of the non-subordinate liability of the debtor at the date of the insolvency declaration, if it occurs within two years of the transit in question of the approval decision. On the other hand, and in the context of the waiver of the remaining liability, commonly referred to as « debt forgiveness », applicable to natural persons, whether entrepreneurs or not, also significantly reduces the time limit from 5 years to 30 months, favouring the faster access of insolvent debtors to a second opportunity. Finally, the proposal also has a set of amendments aimed at clarifying, as I said, some procedural and substantive aspects. I would like to point out to you in two notes: on the one hand, the clarification of the taxable nature of the list of subordinated claims; on the other hand, the allocation to the administrators of the insolvency of the failure to submit a proposal for a final instalment, a practice which corresponds to what is already done in the judiciary today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: the proposal that the Government submits to the Assembly of the Republic is an important legislative package to consolidate the revitalization of our economic and social fabric, following the pandemic. It is not indifferent whether or not your approval is made in this Parliament. It is not just because we have to honour our international commitments, it is also — and much — because five or six months is excessive time in the lives of families, businesses and workers in difficulty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u125	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. I would also like to congratulate the Minister and the Secretary of State. For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Secretary of State : The proposal for a government law here under discussion therefore serves to transpose into the national legal order a directive of the European Union on restructuring, insolvency and business discharge processes. As the CFP has alerted, it is a bad directive. It is mainly bad because it is aimed at deepening a process of integration — see the famous Union of Capital Markets — that is no longer a path to increasing concentration and centralisation of capital. It is bad because it does not represent a real concern about the situation of workers, the information, the participation and involvement of the workers and their class organisations in insolvency and restructuring processes. It is bad because it does not translate the guarantee of protection and payment of its wages and the guarantee of its reintegration into the labour market. But the very transposition of this bad directive raises problems and perplexities. Of course, as regards the government's assessment of its basic mechanisms. The Government, by the way, considers that the Special Revitalization Process, the PER, is a success case and considers it to be so successful that it opts for a legislative process and for a political action line in which this mechanism of the PER is the master trave in that construction. But this conviction and that option that the government is trying to support are denied by reality. First of all, we would like to point out that there is a false sense of government security when it states that the « level of companies with approved recovery plans which have not again resorted to special revitalization processes or insolvency proceedings is 55 %, indicating the accession of the economy to that legal figure ». This would be like a doctor to say that of the patients who attended, 55.5% never appeared to him again. If they're alive or dead, it's another story! But let's assume they're all alive, i.e., let's admit that these are even the numbers that depict what went right. According to the Government, 40 % of the RPs submitted are approved by the creditors and 55 % of the RPs do not use the new process, which means a success rate of 22, 2 %. In other words, 77, 8% of PER fail!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u127	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u128	These objections to the Government's assessment are also explicitly reflected in the opinion sent to this House by the Association of Business Recovery Mediators. This is the same association that, over many months, warned against the absence of disclosure measures of the so-called Extrajudicial Business Recovery Regime, approved by Law No 8 / 2018 of 2 March, without opposing votes in the Assembly of the Republic. The fact is that, except rare exceptions, if a company resorts to judicial proceedings is because it is already so weak that it can only find an alternative way to its survival through the intervention of a judge, which attests to its difficulty in dealing with the critical situations it faces.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u130	What this framework shows is the concrete need for another approach, an approach that starts from a serious and rigorous assessment of the reality and the results achieved and which, in a consequent way, sets out solutions, creating conditions to combat the laxity of justice, assuming from the institutions of the State a responsible position, from as a creditor, for defending the public interest and for defending the business fabric and the productive sectors. It may thus safeguard the situation, rights and interests of the workers of these companies, so that they are not the weakest link in a current at risk of breaking up, or take measures that have long been lacking, including information and clarification and support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in access to mediation and monitoring mechanisms to deal with and overcome situations that threaten their continuity. First of all, it is necessary to move from words to actions and to ensure access to support by these companies, not leaving this economic fabric, to prevent and avoid insolvency, because this is an indeclinable priority. A word still for the thousands of workers who, as we speak here, fight for the future of their companies, fight for employment with rights, against the threats and blackmails of those who use insolvency processes as a weapon of pressure and blackmail. from Groundforce to Soares da Costa, passing through summer at A-ETPL ( Association — Lisbon Harbour Work Company ), workers have the PCP and the class solidarity of those who do not give up fighting. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u131	Mr Nelson Silva of the PAN Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : In September 2020, the NAP called on the Government to seek to ensure the rapid transposition of Directive 2019 / 1023 and to avoid a last-minute transposition as often happens. We are talking about a directive that can give great impetus to the adoption of new mechanisms for preventive reorganization of companies, which will ensure the protection of jobs and the preservation of knowledge. But with the government's proposal in hand, we can already go further in our criticism. From then on, it is positive to predict the obligation to classify creditors affected by the recovery plan in different categories, since, as the World Bank says, this values on the one hand the contractual freedom of creditors and, on the other, brings a guaranteed credit logic that allows to reduce risks, increase the availability of credit and still lower the cost of credit, which greatly benefits micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In the Government's proposal, we see as positive that the example of France and Malta has been followed and that a specific category for workers has been provided. We regret, however, that it has left out a category that tends to protect the most vulnerable creditors, such as small suppliers. It is also the fact that the Government has not taken advantage of the margin that the directive has given it to ensure that, in transposition, measures are taken to ensure even more favourable national legislation for the revitalization and rehabilitation of debtors. The government, with this proposal, does nothing to change the reality of the courts take on average one year to declare the insolvent natural person and to decide on the admission of the application for exemption from the remaining liability. This may be fatal for cases where the insolvent debtor still has the ability to pay to creditors. The Government's path should have been to unbureaucratise the procedure for exonerating the remaining liability and to take stock of the way of conciliation between the parties and thus give the courts a role as an appeal body and not as a principal. In addition, the Government focuses on the special process of revitalization, but ignores that this process fails more than 77% of the time, something that could be resolved by a new process of preventive restructuring for companies, especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen. Government members, these are structural matters that require more weighting. However, the NAP, given the exceptional speed of this legislative process, does not propose any amendments to this matter. Nevertheless, we are involved in this legislative process with a proposal which is very concrete and which aims to note a point which is set out in recital 23 of the directive which, moreover, is completely ignored by the Government. We want workers' representative organisations to have the right to access to economic and financial information generated by the Early Warning Mechanism and to enjoy the support of the IAPMEI (Agency for Competitiveness and Innovation) in the analysis and evaluation of this information.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u133	Mr. Deputies, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u134	To ensure the access of workers' representatives to this information is to safeguard the rights of such workers and to minimize the social effects of business restructuring operations. Finally, by the fairness of this proposal and by its primacy in the context of the economic crisis we are experiencing, we hope to have the support of the various political forces on this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u135	For an intervention, Mrs Marcia Passos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u136	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: This bill that we appreciate today is late, disappointing and worrying. It's late because the transposition of the directive should have been done until July 17 of the current year and it's November 4th.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u137	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u138	If this lack of time had served to create a decent diploma and to help businesses, then it would have even been worth it. But it wasn't like that! Let us note: the directive has three clear objectives. Member States should legislate to create: first, preventive restructuring schemes; second, processes leading to debt loss; third, measures to increase the efficiency of restructuring processes. The bill fails the three objectives, of course because it is based on wrong assumptions. The proposal for a law and the Government are based on a principle that is not true, i.e. that Portugal has many early warning and restructuring diplomas, but that is not true. Portugal has a set of gross diplomas that only serve to confuse and fight entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u139	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u140	We have the PER, we have the insolvency, we have the RERE, we still have the PEVE and the PEAP (special process for payment agreement) — we have all this and the entrepreneur does not know where to address himself and which of the processes to launch.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u141	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u142	The early warning system, referred to in the explanatory statement, is another wrong assumption, because this system — it is very sorry to say — does not do any good. Does any entrepreneur benefit from the fact that Banco de Portugal sends information to IAPMEI and IAPMEI send information to the Tax Authority and the Tax Authority send an annual e-mail to the entrepreneur saying that he is in difficulty? Is this helping businessmen? That's not it! Just as this is not what this directive also imposes. There must be advice provided by public or private organisations to companies that have difficulties. Where's this in the bill? It is not, it has not been considered and there is no planned guidance for entrepreneurs. contrary to what happens in Spain, Italy, Denmark, Austria, there is no. Again, Portugal did not follow these good examples and did not listen to international organisations. A short time ago, the World Bank, the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law, the proposals for the European Union's recommendation gave a warning that a single process would be created to help micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u144	Once again, the government has not done so and has not heard anyone make this bill. You have not heard, for example, the Counsellor, Prof. Catarina Serra, who has been in Funchal for many days. You didn't hear anyone at all! Madam Minister, as far as debt forgiveness is concerned, the government has not been well either, because it reduces from 5 years to 30 months and forgets that the reports made in the court proceedings are annual. Even this ends up creating entropies throughout the system! It was also not well because it failed to comply with what the directive requires, i.e. the consolidation of processes when there are personal debts and businesses, particularly when we talk about individual entrepreneurs. Nor was it good when you read about the majority. Mrs. Minister, what is the majority of this 50, 01? So 50, 001 isn't a majority? Won't you approve a plan when you have 50, 001? [[PSD Members' laughs.]] Why complicate what is simple? All Portuguese know what is more than 50%. Why complicated? I would like this to be taken into account by the various parties so that it may be possible not to make a great diploma, because this is no longer possible, but at least to improve some serious and technical errors that will harm the lives of everyone. Mrs. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has lost one more chance. He lost the opportunity to help businesses and small entrepreneurs, lost the opportunity to look at the country and help restructure the companies that are experiencing difficulties. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u145	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Justice, this proposal for a law implementing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1023, propose to speed up the insolvency and recovery process of companies, thus giving a set of measures provided for in the Economic Justice and the Business Environment component of the Recovery and Resilient Plan. So, apparently, this will be the goal and where this transposition comes from. In fact, we have a set of amendments affecting many legal diplomas, including: the Statute of the Judiciary Administrator; the Code of Commercial Societies; the Code of Commercial Registry; the Code of Business Insolvency and Recovery; the Rules of Procedure. This, by itself, denotes the complexity of the proposal on the table. In fact, we must not fail to mention that, precisely because of this complexity and the potential to increase the difficulty in relation to documents and processes that are already there, we must point out negatively the rush with which the Government and the PS want to complete the specialization process of this proposal, which does not, from our point of view, allow for an in-depth debate that would certainly deserve and that we will not have the opportunity to do so. Generally, the measures in question propose clarifying procedural and substantive aspects—I have already said—, filling up some inaccuracies in the law and resolving disagreements in doctrine or jurisprudence. But we are interested in going to the political substance of this proposal. In other words, the Government bases this proposal on the assumption that the Special Revitalisation Process is a success case and that it is therefore sufficient to be subject to timely adjustments to accommodate the amendments proposed in the Community Directive in question. However, as mentioned above, the PER assessment report concludes that 77, 8 % of PER fail to meet its objectives. It is also noted that only 40 % of PER are approved and that of these only 55 % do not resort to a new process, but they do not know exactly what happens to them. In addition, only 11 % of the credits recognised are actually paid. We recall a debate that we had in this Parliament not long ago about the establishment of another process, the ENP, in which warnings have been given several times over the past years and in this particular debate on the fact that it is a process that does not seem to us to be as successful as this and that, on the other hand, has not even been able to protect workers, which are a very important dimension of the PER and where we have had absolutely demanding cases of their fraudulent use for the dismissal of workers, since these cases have rarely been mentioned and have not been able to respond to this difficulty. According to the Government, this initiative stems from the need to give more advanced responses to companies, beyond Law No 75 / 2020, which established the extraordinary process of business feasibility, a diploma for which the Left Block voted against, in a global final vote, precisely because it was based on this principle that ENP would have a positive assessment of PER. Therefore, it seems to us that today's proposal on the table, like the previous one of the ENP, and other debates on business insolvency and how they are recovered, continues to fall far short. Moreover, the part of the workers is still not involved, which in these processes is always the one who suffers the most. Returning to the debate we had about the ENP, we continued to point out that at the time, effective and concrete support for companies and the protection of workers was being missed, and here, in this proposal, we again did not have these support mechanisms for companies. Therefore, it seems to us that this proposal fails again in the necessary measures, as it has previously failed the ENP and how it continues to fail the PER. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u147	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State, Minister of Justice: I would like to begin by congratulating you. Looking at the presentation of reasons for the diploma and making an analysis, which is necessarily superficial at this first stage of the document, I think it will be difficult to find — at least, I will not say within this Chamber, but of people of good sense — who disagrees. It is obvious that we all want more agile processes, of course we all want to uncomplicate them, of course we all want to remove obstacles to the proper functioning of the economy and we also know that it is one of the objectives of the PRR. At the time, I even mentioned, I believe, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Prime Minister who did not need the PRR to do this, which is necessary to legislate and act. However, my doubts have to do with the detail. The discussion of this bill was scheduled last week, after the pre-announcement of the dissolution of this Parliament and we do not know how many days we will have. It seems to me, of course, to legislate a matter of this complexity in which we already realize that there are obstacles, which are serious obstacles and that often do not have to do with what is written in the law, but with the things that then, in practice, work badly — without strictly listening to anyone, which is what will happen with a week of expertise, is something that I do not think of entirely sensible. In addition, in the proposed law, the Government itself advises nine entities to be heard, including the Portuguese Association of Judicial Administrators, the Portuguese Banking Association, the Portuguese Association of Portuguese Judges — and I would also include business associations, because I find it a bit strange to be talking about business recovery and not listening to who represents companies — and therefore, the Minister, this means time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u149	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u150	The Government has chosen to present this diploma at a time when there is no time for debate in the specialty. With all honesty, it is impossible, no matter how good-will and working ability. Not that we spend every hour of the next few weeks, it seems to me impossible to do this under minimum security conditions, so that we are not making it possible with the vote something that will not work out later in practice or will have perverse effects that we can't predict because we haven't heard anyone. The only opinions here are those of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) and the National Association of Freguesias ( ANAFRE ), which, with all respect, are very respectable, in their opinion, but are not exactly the most valued entities to make opinions on corporate recovery. Therefore, generally agreeing with the objectives, we will abstain-CL, but I do not see how we will be able to close this process. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u151	Mr Hugo Carvalho, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Justice, Secretary of State : I think we are all united in the design we want for this debate and with this transposition. The subject of this transposition is not dealt with simply, on the right or on the wrong side, nor is it treated in an untidy manner than is the legal nature of economic issues and direct support to the economy. And it is in this area that I would first of all like to frame the subject. We all want a strong economy, capable of creating jobs, robust and thus creating wealth. We all want to ride on a path that will be able to give more ways to capitalize and more answers to our business fabric, our micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Now, if we want to do so, we must be able to understand the path that brought us here and the specificities that brought us here. We know that this pandemic period has already led us to legislate issues that are related to the transposition we are debating today. We know that today we are legislating in the hangover of a Recovery and Resilience Plan that structures axes of intervention and modernization of our activity, of our system, to strengthen this response. We know that this regulation which we now want to transpose into the national legal system is also capable of incorporating these various areas. Not long ago, here in this House, we did some work on economic justice and the business environment. This is where we discuss support in the era of the pandemic that we live, creating specific measures, and I mean, in particular, Law No 75 / 2020, where this capacity is demonstrated that it is an example of the creation of extraordinary processes for the revitalization of our companies. Today we are discussing instruments that bring more speed, which make the state more agile and faster and even have the ability to give answers in tighter moments. We have done so with activity, with economic support, but we also want to use this period to strengthen our economic justice. We want to do it by walking together and I think there are many points that join us in this House. I would also like to address a specific issue which has been discussed here: the question of workers. We cannot at any time think that this is a black and white discussion. It's a lot more than this. This is a discussion in which it has to be clear that giving more tools for our companies to survive in difficult times, giving more opportunities for them to be able to renew their activity more quickly is also to defend workers and create more jobs. The way to create more jobs and defend workers is also to support companies at the most difficult and tighter times so that they can honour their commitments between debtors and creditors and, with this diploma, safeguarding more of what is the interests of workers. Let me say that, if it is positive that in this important process we can create categories of creditors, it is also important for workers to be out of this same package, as is the case here. Therefore, these are steps that we can point out here as positive and that we can work, even though in a more tight way than would happen under normal conditions. But together with an additional effort, we will be able to overcome these hardships, because, at this particular moment, the economic condition that the pandemic situation has created, many companies demand a response from us at the same time. And we'll be here to honor our commitments. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u153	The Bureau does not have any more entries, so we are going to stop. I assume that the Minister of Justice wishes to speak for the two minutes to which she is entitled. Please, Minister. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u154	Madam President, thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Members who participated in this debate. I wanted to say two or three things, basically referring to timing, remote background, to the closest background and then, of course, to our availability. Of course, I wanted to assure the gentlemen. Members that the Government has not brought this instrument at this time for reasons relating to the situation. As you will estimate, bringing this diploma to Parliament involved a great deal of prior work at the level of the government, which obviously culminated in the approval by the Council of Ministers. It has happened that the diploma came to Parliament at a time very close to the budgetary debate, with the consequences that it had. I also want to tell you, on a more remote background, that the Commission, aware of the complexity of this directive, created a working group that met once in January 2020 and did not meet again. And he created the working group for what? Just to create uniform transposition rules for all countries. That never happened. In any case, the Government has been working on this diploma and, like the honourable Members. You know, there was a time when the pandemic forced us to take extraordinary measures. These extraordinary economic measures have been adopted, in particular the ENP, which have already been discussed here, the compulsory rates, the simplified layoff. There was a whole emergency intervention and we left these matters, which are more structural, for a more complex document. This is the document we bring here. We bring you with all humility, with the awareness that it may not be exactly what would be a majority will of this Parliament, but also with the conviction that Parliament is aware that at this moment we really need to find tools to deal with the crisis that follows, when the moratoriums are lifted and when the economy starts to function at the pace at which it worked in 2019. So, in this perspective, what I am going to say to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is fully available to work under any conditions, so that we can find here a point of understanding that will enable us to move forward in this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u155	We will move on to point 4 of our agenda, which consists in the general assessment of the Bill No 117 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Ensures compliance with the Agreements between the European Union and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in respect of extradition and freezing, seizure and loss of property. For an intervention, Mrs. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem has the floor again. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 31 January 2020, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ceased to be part of the European Union. In the context of the negotiations that resulted in the definition of a framework to establish the point of future relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom in August 2020, a Trade and Cooperation Agreement was concluded between the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. This Agreement entered into force on 1 May 2021 and presupposes and accepts, above all in its Part Three, a set of rules that are in line with judicial cooperation and police cooperation, essentially reproducing a set of instruments which were already resulting from the acquis of the Union. As is written in the explanatory statement of the proposed law, Part Three of this Agreement establishes a framework for cooperation between judicial authorities and police authorities and also the framework for cooperation between the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland and the European agencies Europol ( European Police Office ) and Eurojust ( European Union Agency for Criminal Justice Cooperation ), creating in essence a very similar model to that which existed before Brexit. This Agreement therefore includes a wide range of exhibitions and annexes regulating the exchange of DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) data, fingerprints and data relating to the registration of vehicles, the transfer and processing of passenger identification data, cooperation on operational information, cooperation with Europol and Eurojust, delivery, mutual assistance, exchange of information on criminal records, combating money laundering and financing of terrorism. In general, this Part Three of the Agreement constitutes, in itself, a sufficient legal basis for the operation of national authorities in relevant areas, obviously in conjunction with existing legal provisions on judicial cooperation, in particular Law No 144/99 and several other diplomas relating to matters covered by that Part Three, in particular the diplomas relating to DNA, dactyloscopic data, the registration of vehicles, finally the matters referred to above. With regard to judicial cooperation, the provisions of the Agreement replace, in relations with the United Kingdom, the European arrest warrant and the mutual recognition instruments for loss and seizure of property and, more recently, the mutual recognition of seizure and loss decisions and the European Research Decision regime, this scheme being only for the restricted part of requests for information and control on bank accounts and transactions. Although we believe that there is a correspondence between the arrangements provided for in the Agreement and the essentials of our domestic legislation, we believe that this proposal should be submitted because, with regard to the procedures for the delivery of persons under the arrest warrant and also to the freezing and loss of goods and also with regard to the provision of information under the European Research Decision, the United Kingdom believes that the Agreement is not sufficiently open to procedural rules. Therefore, with the approval of this diploma it would be applicable to applications for detention made by the United Kingdom the same regime as it applies today to the European arrest warrant, as provided for in Portuguese law. On the other hand, in June 2006 the European Union entered into a judicial cooperation agreement with the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway, but it only entered into force on 1 November 2019. This Agreement also regulates cooperation in the delivery of persons between the Member States of the European Union and those two countries. With regard to this Agreement, there is the same problem of doubts as to whether or not internal procedural mechanisms exist for their implementation. With this proposal, the Government intends to dispel any doubts that may exist about the possibility of carrying out at national level our responsibilities arising from the Agreements signed by the European Union, on the one hand, with the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and on the other with the Kingdom of Norway and the Republic of Iceland. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u157	Mr Nelson Silva of the PAN Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The proposal that the Government brings to us today is not of particular complexity and will count on the vote in favour of the NAP, as it is at stake to comply with the Agreements between the European Union and Iceland, Norway, the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland, with a view to establishing specific rules on extradition and freezing, seizure and loss of property, which deepen the judicial cooperation of our legal order with these countries. That is why and because the subject is extradition, we must not fail to mention one of the blackest pages on human rights, in which this Parliament has chosen to do nothing, remaining in a restless silence. I am referring, of course, to the extradition agreement between Portugal and Hong Kong, which, inexplicably, continues to apply without any amendment. This is despite the fact that in recent months there have been unprecedented setbacks with regard to human rights, individual freedoms and the rights of activists, journalists and opposition forces, due to the new national security law in Hong Kong, which is greatly challenged by civil society. With this law, a national security agency in Hong Kong was established, the powers of the state courts were strengthened in view of the weakening of Hong Kong autonomy, it was anticipated that permanent arrest for acts that apply to the extent to pro-democracy activists and the activity of journalists and media agencies was greatly limited. These amendments have the result in view, with several pro-democracy activists who are detained under this new legal framework. This law violates the principles of the rule of democratic law, undermines the fundamental rights of Portuguese citizens in Hong Kong and constitutes a violation of China's commitments with the international community. In view of this, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, the United States of America, Canada, New Zealand and Australia suspended extradition agreements with Hong Kong. The European Union, through the Council of Foreign Ministers of the European Union, recommended that each State should consider suspending its extradition agreements. Portugal has done nothing about this and the extradition agreement with Hong Kong remains fully in force. The NAP proposed here this suspension, but this was plunged by the vote against the PS, PSD, PCP and the ENP and the abstention of the CDS-PP, in what was a black page of this legislature, which we could not forget here when the debate we make is about extradition.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u159	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u160	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: We are debating here today amendments to our internal legal order, more specifically to the law of international judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which aim to lay down specific rules, as mentioned here, on extradition, freezing, seizure and loss of property. The aim is to ensure compliance with international agreements between the European Union and Iceland, the Kingdom of Norway, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and consequently cooperation between the Portuguese Republic and those States in these areas. This seems to merit a broad consensus, and still well. in this sense, also on our part, the PSD bench, we see this bill as positive, even because the funding park that this government has given to the police investigation is so well known, especially against corruption. in this context, Mrs Minister, there is still much to be done in terms of justice in Portugal, especially with regard to the training of our criminal police bodies, to effectively combat this type of crime. We have recently seen either the Director of the DPRK ( Central Department of Research and Criminal Action ) or the Attorney General of the Republic, or also the PSD, with interventions in this House, denounce this situation. Moreover, the need for judicial cooperation at international level, even more so among European countries, is increasingly evident, considering that either technological, political change or the increase in the movement and movement of persons and goods between borders are situations that have been determining an increase in the interest of States in the establishment of rules, specific procedures and conditions of reciprocity that allow and facilitate access to justice beyond their territorial borders. In fact, in this context, one cannot fail to recognize that we are increasingly confronted with new forms of crime which are essentially characterized by supranational crime, i.e. without limiting borders. And such crime, unconnected from the closed geographical space of a State, fades through several others and clearly separates itself from the previous standards. Therefore, a paradigm shift is seen and it is inevitable to conclude that a local approach is insufficient and a global vision is needed. in this context, there has been enormous developments in the construction of the European Union, particularly since the Maastricht Treaty. It happens that in the case of the United Kingdom it was precisely Brexit who came to change his relationship with the European Union, and consequently with our country, too in this area. Since Norway and Iceland do not belong to the European Union, these amendments aim to facilitate and expedite international judicial cooperation in criminal matters. The fact is that in this area we are sometimes afraid of a practical difficulty with regard to the execution of certain mandates, which can therefore be completed. Portugal was recently in shock with the escape of João Rendeiro. On the other hand, you don't even know your whereabouts, imagine you're more south, in the sun, who knows how to take a glass of rum, but you never know if it's not north anymore, in a colder country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u161	In Iceland!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u162	And these instruments serve precisely to prevent such leaks. This legislation and these proposed amendments are in particular sensitive, and therefore the first Commission has requested opinions from the Advocates' Order, the Supreme Council of the Magistracy and the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, which we expect to receive urgently so that they can be attended at the stage of the speciality. Therefore, and to conclude, this is an important instrument in the fight against crime and is precisely international judicial cooperation, obviously always accompanied by due safeguards, which will facilitate a strengthening of dialogue and action between the judicial authorities of the different States. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u163	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Secretary of State : This is a linear, simple matter, and, in fact, we could take advantage of the simplicity and linearity of the matter to talk about a number of things. But with all honesty, what we are dealing with is simply two agreements and the amendment to the law in order to facilitate compliance with those agreements. That's it! So it costs me a little bit to make speeches here — perfectly legitimate, certainly, there is no doubt about it — but, finally, with a set of considerations that go far beyond this. They are strategies for parliamentary intervention and we have nothing to criticise, but indeed it seems a bit strange to me. Therefore, what the Government believes from our point of view is that legislative intervention is necessary to ensure that what is necessary to adapt so that both agreements — i.e. the agreement between the European Union and Iceland and Norway, on the one hand, and the United Kingdom, on the other hand, by virtue of Brexit — can be applied. It is as simple as that, it does not seem to us that there is any legal or political problem in this regard and we will therefore vote in favour. I won't take any more consideration. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u165	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u166	Madam President, I was naturally looking for a different intervention from Mr. José Manuel Pureza, but I confess that I didn't get much. [[Laughing.]] With due respect for a more dense and sustained intervention, as Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira did, to whom I respect, we also find nothing particularly problematic or complicated in this matter. Finally, I understand and am even supportive of what Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP said about Hong Kong, but not already making Hong Kong part of the United Kingdom, and being the agreement with the United Kingdom and Norway, that is not the central issue, although of course we can worry about it. As far as the issue is concerned, the Minister explained it. We are talking about evidence, of apprehension, of everything that has to do with the extradition regime itself and comes from international agreements and treaties. In seeking to find a reservation or a question for the opposition, it is only the fact that it, as far as I know and has come to us, is not accompanied by the normal and respective opinions of the main institutions, in particular the principal entities and operators, from this point of view, in criminal and judicial matters. This can be one of the defects pointed out. The Government pointed out the urgency of not being suspended, including by the dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic, a matter which is in international agreement and which has to do with the fight against crime. Obviously, it will not be the CDS to stop it, without, however, leaving here this question, which is obvious. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u167	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u168	Madam President, Minister for Justice, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We all realize that this is a peaceful matter and the time we have to talk about a peaceful matter always has the advantage of allowing us to talk about other things. But as the honourable Members said recently. Mr José Manuel Pureza and Mr Telmo Correia, we do not believe that this has much justification. So what we say is that it is clear to us the importance of this bill. In fact, it makes sense that the judicial cooperation mechanisms established between the countries of the European Union, regardless of disagreements we may have with regard to the concrete content of some of the judicial cooperation mechanisms established, are in force and makes sense, in our view, that with regard to countries that are close to us but are not members of the European Union, as is the case with Iceland, Norway and now with the United Kingdom, that judicial cooperation mechanisms which are also effective and there is some uniformity of regimes concerning what is in place between the Member States of the European Union can be established. We have no objection to this and therefore we have no difficulty voting in favour of this bill. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u169	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Oneto of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr President, I was almost ignoring the use of the floor because, in fact, the statement by the Minister of Justice was so clear and precise that I would not need any further explanations and I subscribe to what was said here. Mr José Manuel Pureza and Mr Telmo Correia, which, in fact, has little to add to the need for this bill on international judicial cooperation. However, I asked for the floor because I cannot but tell Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira that she must be distracted about what is happening out there in the real world. It is that what the Judicial Police and our police have investigated, despite what they call sub-investment, has been much more than it was in your time. And if you check out and read news from the newspapers, you'll see what our cops are doing, because the bandits also walk around here and are also extradited. It was good for you to start seeing what our cops are doing well instead of always pointing your finger. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u171	In order to use the 10 seconds available, Mr Nelson Silva of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u172	Madam President, I would just like to clarify the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen present about two things. First of all, we are talking about a draft extradition agreements and, therefore, the theme of the extradition agreement in force between Portugal and Hong Kong, to which I referred, has all relevance in this debate. Secondly, I believe that every time the topic of the anti-democratic and oppressive regime of the People's Republic of China is brought to the dance, this can somehow incite some more aggressive feelings in this House, but that is not why the NAP will limit its political intervention in what we understand is a matter related to this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u173	For the same purpose, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u174	Madam President, Mrs Isabel Oneto, I am very sorry that you have only used one minute of your intervention and just looking at the past. We're here to look at the future. We want criminal investigation to work better, that there are more ways to make things better, that's not being here talking about things from the past. [[PSD applause.]] And I recommend that you listen to the statement by the Attorney-General of the Republic, because she explains that very well. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u175	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Oneto of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u176	Mr President, Mrs Deputies, the matter that brings us here has nothing to do with the escape of 'Renders' and others. Or would you like to charge this to the Minister of Justice? Oh, my God! This is the question that Mrs Deputies wanted to bring here, because she had no other issue. That's what's regrettable. I repeat, that is regrettable!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u177	You heard everything the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u178	They are always hitting on the same thing: "It seems that research"...Of course that more investment is needed in many other matters, but not to consider what has been done and the work done is that it is regrettable and, above all, to take advantage of such a subject, with the importance it has, in relation to international judicial cooperation, that was regrettable for its part. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u179	It's just ghosts!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u180	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us move on to the closing stage of the debate and, to this end, has the floor of Mr. Justice, Francisca Van Dunem. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u181	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Basically, I would like to thank you for the contributions you have made to this debate. There were, in fact, two parallel debates. Obviously, none of them are less important than the other, but what I bring here today relates exclusively to this bill, which has to do with the creation of procedural means for the implementation of the agreements concluded, on the one hand, between the European Union and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and on the other hand between the European Union and Norway and Iceland. in this part, and considering the simplicity, I welcome the speed with which the debate took place and I also hope that it will be possible to conclude this as quickly as possible, so that we can in some way secure the United Kingdom on the possibilities of continuing to cooperate with Portugal on the basis of the previous logic, which was the assumption in the third pillar and which was essentially based on mutual trust, which I think continues to exist in countries with the same institutional and democratic standards. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u182	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we conclude point 4 of today's agenda. We moved on to point 5, to which no time has been allocated for discussion, the motion for a resolution No 29 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Mobility Agreement between the Member States of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries. The following is point 6 of the agenda, the joint assessment of Petition No 103 / XIV / 1. a ( by Eliiana de Oliveira Gonçalves and others) — Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: provision of new NurOwn treatment for Portuguese patients and the Resolution Project No 1133 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Availability of therapeutic innovation for treatment of lateral amyotrophic sclerosis. Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, and on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet and greet the more than 5000 petitioners and petitioners who address the Assembly of the Republic and in this petition request that all possibilities be explored to make available in Portugal therapeutic innovation to combat amiotrophic lateral sclerosis. As, in fact, it is exposed in the petition we are debating, this is a disease that affects about 800 people in Portugal, a highly incapacitating disease, which imposes a very small average life expectancy from the moment it manifests itself. And the central point of the project that the Left Block presents for joint debate with this petition is even to ensure that therapeutic innovation in Portugal can be made available quickly. This is not a project to replace us neither the clinical trials that proceed and their phases, nor the technical and scientific evaluations, either of the European Medicines Agency, or of the Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority ). This project is to ensure that, after data from these steps — clinical trials, consistent and validated results, evaluation by the European Medicines Agency and the Portuguese Medicine Agency — innovation, if this is the evaluation and decision, is effectively made available. Why are we presenting this project? Because there is a significant delay in introducing therapeutic innovation in Portugal compared with several countries in Europe and the European average. It is not the Left Block Parliamentary Group that affirms it, for example, is the spring report of the Portuguese Health Systems Observatory, which said, and I quote: « The speed of introduction of therapeutic innovation is very asymmetric in the European Union, and in Portugal the time for access by patients is six times longer than the best European outcome in the period 2014 - 2016 » — which is what was available at the time. Why does this happen? It says the same report, from the same observatory, that it will be due to two situations. First, to interfere with the immediate budgetary decision-making framework, i.e. to generate savings or not to create expenditure with therapeutic innovation. Therefore, nothing has to do with the technical-scientific evaluation, it has to do with a budgetary policy decision not to introduce therapeutic innovation to not create more expenditure for the National Health Service and this is, of course, censorable. The second reason presented by the same report is an insufficient exercise in anticipation and forecasting of innovation cycles in critical areas of the health system. Indeed, this lack of planning does not make much sense, because it is easy to know, for example, what are the drugs and therapies that are currently being evaluated, which are in the various phases of clinical trial; it is easy to know which are being evaluated, for example, by the European Medicines Agency, and to predict, more or less, when they may come to a positive or negative decision and therefore it is also possible to predict, in Portugal, this introduction of therapeutic innovation, which is the same report from the Spring of the Portuguese Observatory of Health Systems says that in Portugal it does not happen. Therefore, in order to meet the petitioners' request, i.e. that therapeutic innovation may be made available, in this case in particular to combat amiotrophic lateral sclerosis, what needs to be ensured is that there are, in addition to the technical-scientific analysis and evaluation devices, the political and budgetary devices, so that they are not barrier to the introduction of therapeutic innovation. Synthesis: That is what the Left Block proposes in this draft resolution, that there are no politically oriented budgetary barriers and that, therefore, a planning of the cycle of introduction of therapeutic innovation for lateral amiotrophic sclerosis, obviously, is made, but for other diseases that also have, at this time, therapeutics in evaluation and research. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u184	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Arrobas of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u185	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS-PP Parliamentary Group begins by welcoming and complimenting the more than 5000 petitioners of this petition we have today to make available a new treatment for Portuguese patients with amiotrophic lateral sclerosis. We also welcome the civic attitude they had by bringing this matter to discussion. I do not want to fail to express our deepest solidarity with all the people who suffer from this problem, but also with their families and caregivers. This is a rare, neurodegenerative disease, for which there is no cure, with an average life expectancy of two to five years after diagnosis and which brings tremendous suffering to whom it is diagnosed and to whom it is closest. Both patients and their families and caregivers have the deepest respect for the CDS. in this petition, it is requested that the Government quickly provide a treatment that, at the time of delivery of the petition (for more than one year), was still under clinical trial, but was already in phase 3, meanwhile completed in October last year and apparently with promising results. The CDS has been claiming that it must be once and for all overcome the difficulty of accessing innovative therapies in our country, as a result of the morbidity in the treatment of approval processes with Infarmed, either in the drug-therapeutic evaluation or in the drug-economic evaluation. It should be stressed that many innovative drugs can save lives or at least greatly improve the hope and quality of life for many of their people who lack it. We also recall that, although there is a medicinal product authorised in Portugal for the treatment of amiotrophic lateral sclerosis, it only helps to delay the progression of the disease and, while there is some other medicine that can be more effective and bring better quality of life to patients, we believe that the authorities of the medicinal product should make every effort to monitor, with the utmost rigor, requirement and competence, developments related to these innovative medicines and that their placing on the market and sharing must be seen once and for all as a further benefit to the patients and to society and not as a further expense. It is that if a person stays more active, the balance for the State will also be positive. We cannot, therefore, fail to follow the draft resolution that the Left Block brings us here today. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We do not know that for many innovative medicines there is an exceptional authorisation of use ( EUA ) in Portugal through the Precoce Access Programme ( PAP ). However, it has been found that these processes are too slow and bureaucratic and that the speed in the response that has been given is not consistent with the urgency of patients' access to these medicines. Whether for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, either for any other disease, regulator procedures need to be faster. We've come to defend him. And even when the drugs are still in clinical trials, the regulator needs to be attentive to its developments and results and must be prepared to act quickly if it is scientifically based on its effectiveness. We cannot continue to look first at the prices that innovative medicines may have not even so much to expect from social pressure that may arise to then act. The State has a duty to look first at people, patients, their families and their caregivers. For the CDS, the priority must be to provide them with the highest possible dignity and quality of life. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u186	For an intervention, Mrs Cláudia Bento of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen: I begin by congratulating, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, the petitioners present in the gallery and, through them, greeting the more than 5000 citizens who have subscribed to this petition—Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: provision of new NurOwn treatment for Portuguese patients. The theme of this petition brings us to the debate several problems, which were listed during the hearing with the petitioners, namely: the need for awareness-raising and awareness-raising on this topic; the importance of implementing innovative therapies and care that provide more and better quality of life and survival for these patients; and also the need for timely reference, as well as a humanized follow-up offered to both the patient and the caregiver. Contextualizing, amiotrophic lateral sclerosis is a neurodegenerative, progressive, fatal disease caused by a degeneration of the upper and lower motor neurons, leading to a progressive weakness of the bulbary, appendicular, axial and respiratory muscles. It is estimated that about 800 Portuguese are affected by the disease. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis has to date no curative treatment. It's a fatal disease. The treatment of the patient with amiotrophic lateral sclerosis is part of an integrated approach that includes neuroprotective therapy, in its limitations, rehabilitation treatment and symptomatology relief. So far, there is only one drug approved in the specific treatment of lateral amyotrophic sclerosis, called Riluzol, which has shown to delay the progression of the disease. In addition, several scientific studies are being carried out with the aim of finding the cure of the disease or delaying its progression. However, the discovery of these neuroprotective agents has been almost non-existent. NurOwn is a stem cell based therapy that uses mesenchymal stem cells (EMCs), which have the ability to differentiate in other cells, including nerve cells, allowing them to be repaired. This therapy gave great hope to the scientific community, patients and their families. However, in March 2021, the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) issued a communiqué that I quote: "With the recent conclusion of a phase 3 randomized controlled clinical trial comparing NurOwn with a placebo, it became clear that the data do not support the proposed clinical benefit of this therapy". In this way, and in view of these evidence, its use cannot be recommended.This said, however, I cannot fail to refer to the various reported cases of severe human suffering present in various diseases due to the inaccessibility of Portuguese patients to new innovative therapies, and doubts as to the process of authorisation of these drugs are raised. According to a 2019 report, Portuguese are Europeans who are the longer to have access to innovative medicines. Therefore, the need to be adopted by both the Government and the Infarmed needs the necessary steps to ensure that the process of approval of new therapies is quickly concluded. The Ministry of Health is responsible for monitoring, providing and approving innovative therapy with proven efficacy for all patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. I can also mention the impact that the COVID-19 pandemic has had on patients and their families, who are already in a fragile situation, including the following facts, also listed during the hearing with the petitioners: delay in the convening of medical boards; absence of reference, leading to delay in diagnosis, guidance and therapy; about 80 % of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis have been without therapies during the pandemic and more than half have seen the disease progress; home support, therapy and consultations have been suspended; there is also mention of lack of social support, referring to the lack of palliative care teams, which has also made it difficult to access continued or palliative care; there is also a lack of uniformity of action protocols in relation to patients with amiotrophic lateral sclerosis. I finish by leaving a word of appreciation and comfort for all those who suffer from this pathology and their families. Without a doubt that knowing the needs and giving an adequate response to the patient, and not neglecting the caregivers, are fundamental pillars in the treatment of this pathology, which is also the responsibility of the government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u188	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the PAN Parliamentary Group, we welcome the more than 5300 people who have signed this petition and who give us the opportunity to discuss this issue here today. It is a petition for alert, appeal, request for help for people suffering from a severe, incapacitating and lethal neurodegenerative disease. We know that it causes the destruction of the neurons responsible for the movement, leads to paralysis and prevents such important tasks as walking, chewing, talking or even breathing. Stephen Hawking was one of the people who gave face and brought visibility to the suffering of 450 000 anonymous people around the world who are dealing with this situation. In Portugal, it is estimated that about 800 people suffer from this disease according to data released last February on World Rare Disease Day. The challenge of the « ice bucket», launched on social networks, which we all know, has tried to draw attention, and well, to the shock people have when they receive a diagnosis of amiotrophic lateral sclerosis. But, contrary to what happens in the challenge, unfortunately, in the case of the people to whom this disease is diagnosed there is no recovery from the previous state of health and well-being and, therefore, we cannot say that there is an effective cure or treatment for this disease. There is, however, clearly the possibility of adequate responses to minimize their impacts, to ensure drugs that can delay their evolution, to maintain for longer the independence of people with this diagnosis and, above all, to confer all dignity on them during this process. We know that health innovation is fundamental to combating diseases as serious as this. The truth is that science makes its way, but this path must be accompanied by public policies that invest in new approaches, capable of ensuring better results. We know that they can even be more expensive immediately, but clearly they will be more effective, fairer and even saving, in a medium and long-term perspective. We also remember, here, that these people, during the process of this disease, need care, particularly at the level of food, and therefore it is important to bring the idea of the importance of strengthening nutritionists in the National Health Service. But these people also need psychological support, so it is important to bring here, again, the need for the reinforcement of psychologists in the SNS. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say that, in fact, all of us, who have chosen to be in this House and in the political sphere, must ultimately assume...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u190	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u191	... the defense of the rights and dignity of all people, patients and health professionals. And, on the side of the NAP, we not only follow this petition but we will also follow the draft resolution that is brought here, expressing, once again,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u192	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u193	...our solidarity with the people who brought this petition here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u194	For an intervention, Mrs Telma Guerreiro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall, of course, begin on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group by congratulating all and all those who subscribe to this petition and thank, of course, also for bringing us the civic participation, so important for this Assembly of the Republic and for the health of our democracy. I also address a word of comfort and solidarity to all people with amiotrophic lateral sclerosis, a word of comfort and deep recognition to all families and caregivers, a word of comfort and consideration, above all, to all health professionals, who care, and to scientists, who investigate. It has already been well explained here what is amiotrophic lateral sclerosis, which affects people by the disease and also affects their families. We must therefore make a brief point about what we know today in relation to research and therapeutic innovation. We know that there is only one drug approved in Portugal specifically for this disease. We know that there is research around the disease, in order to find cure and more effective therapy. So we are here today, and well, discussing this petition, which clings to the hope dictated by the work of science and which puts on the table the hope of the possibility of a new medicine. We also know that authorised medicinal products respond to an essential assessment based on quality, safety and efficacy. This is the case in the European Union, this is the case in the United States, where the new NurOwn medicine is currently being studied. On the tests of this medicine I am not going to repeat what Mrs Cláudia Bento has already well explained about the current results that exist for this medicine. We know that no clinical trials of this medicinal product have been conducted in Portugal and so far applications have been submitted for use by NurOwn. However, it is also important to note that we know that a medicinal product with preliminary evidence may be used in Portugal without a marketing authorisation at the request of hospital institutions, which have autonomy to do so. I would therefore like to leave a message of hope to the petitioners and to the Members. Petitioners, as well as all people suffering from the disease, their families and caregivers: in Portugal, whenever a drug proves to be effective, it is authorised. The NurOwn medicine, which we are talking about in this debate, has an orphan designation, which alone determines the support and incentive for its development at European level, without forgetting how relevant, in 2020, the response of science to COVID, which surprised us. It surprised the world, in its speed at the level of research and the technical-legal process. These facts give us stronger reasons for hope and confidence in the near future. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the draft resolution which the Left Block brings to this House and which, in its explanatory statement, clings to the spring 2019 report to say that therapeutic innovation can be affected by budgetary restrictions, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would like to bring to this discussion the 2020 Annual Access to Health Care Report, which tells us: "The greatest access to innovative medicines is one of the Government's main priorities". [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] This statement is supported by numbers. Between 2010 and 2020, the years in which most innovative medicines were approved were exactly in 2016, 2017 and 2019. The report also tells us that Portugal, through Infarmed, is in the co-ordinated nature of a European dialogue on sustainable access to innovation through various international initiatives. On clinical trials—and we cannot ignore that they are an indispensable tool for the investigation of new drugs—the report tells us that in 2020 155 clinical trials were authorised in Portugal, the largest number of clinical trials so far, confirming the consistent increase in research and clinical trials in Portugal. These are not my words because I have just mentioned the 2020 Annual Access to Health Care Report. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I conclude by saying that if, on the one hand, we cannot, including in this debate, give the answer that people with amiotrophic lateral sclerosis need, because Portugal and this Government are not available, on the other hand, already proved that the policies they prioritize in this area are investment in availability and access to innovative medicines. Science and good political decisions at national, European, international level give us hope that we will continue and never give up. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u196	Mr John Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, first of all, to comply with the promoters of this petition and, in their people, to health the more than 5300 petitioners who have signed this petition. In fact, because it is known by the ELA, the lateral amyotrophic sclerosis disease does not diminish the suffering of those affected by it, especially patients and their families. It is an absolutely incapacitating disease, in which every passing day, the person is faced with more dependence, with more difficulties, either in terms of his muscle strength, or in terms of his joint capacity, and progressively he is unable to perform the most basic tasks. That is why we understand how important it is for each of the patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, for each of the families, the smallest light, the smallest sign that there may be a treatment or solution. They, of course, both want it and are awake to it. It is in this sense that the CFP also understands that everything must be done to provide access to innovation. But attention, because we also want to warn this term: the industry uses this language of "innovation" much to pressure both professionals and the population themselves for the use of these innovative products, which are often not even innovative—because many of them are only changes of molecules that already exist—and often do not bring improvements to life and to the disease that affects people. That is why we believe that, as far as the pharmaceutical industry is concerned, it is important that all negotiations are transparent and that all documents are known, that all evaluations are known, without any confidentiality. And it should be required to demonstrate effectively the gains and benefits of all these therapies. It is important to be dependent — and this is the view that the CFP has — the financing of these therapies and diagnoses of the effective demonstration of their effectiveness. And if it does not result and does not bring changes or benefits to the patients, the money that the State has spent paying to the pharmaceutical industry, which often has an absolutely mercenary behaviour, must be returned. That is why we understand the role of Infarmed. Infarmed is confronted with the defense of population access to products and medicines, but is also confronted with the pressure of the pharmaceutical industry. And it is also confronted with the financial implications for the State, in particular in the effort to purchase these products. We therefore believe that Infarmed faces very difficult situations, particularly with regard to the allocation of resources and the provision of professionals to develop everything in a timely manner, in order to make medicines available and to make these negotiations effective. This is also important to fight. I would also like to tell you, concerning this medicine, that there is currently no treatment for lateral sclerosis that cures it or is effective. What we know is that there are currently 32 orphan products, which are not medicines, and, in this case, this medicine is also an orphan product that is still in its phase 3, missing the completion of phase 4. Therefore, what we understand — and this is the position of the CFP — is that all the treatments and diagnoses with evidence and proven efficacy must be made available, but we must also not allow the State to take over the pharmaceutical industry and we must denounce the fight against the monopolie of the pharmaceutical industry. Therefore, we want to say that, with regard to the project presented by the Left Block here, we believe that monitoring is important, but we need to go beyond the demonstration and knowledge of this monitoring. It is also important to highlight an important aspect...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u198	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u199	In conclusion, Madam President. One important aspect should be highlighted: all non-pharmacological measures, including access to rehabilitation, should be strengthened so that these patients do not worsen their clinical condition and health conditions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-04.u200	We have reached the end of this item on our agenda and also on the end of the agenda. We will meet again tomorrow at 10 a.m. in plenary session. the first item is the discussion of motions for resolutions Nos 32 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the amendment to the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism between the Member States of Economic and Monetary Union, held in Brussels, on 27 January 2021 and on 8 February 2021 and 33 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the amendment to the Agreement on the Transfer and Exchange of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund between the Member States of Economic and Monetary Union, made in Brussels, on 27 January 2021 and 8 February 2021. At the second item on the agenda we have the discussion of the Annual Report of the Ombudsman on the Year 2020. of the third item on the agenda is also the assessment of Petition No 20 / XIV / 1. a ( Teresa Mafalda de Aguiar Frazão and Gonçalves de Campos et al.) — For the defense and protection of horses, together with the discussion of the Law Projects Nos 527 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — Amendment to the Penal Code, exacerbating the penalty for those who inflict ill-treatment on pets, 1000 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN) — adequacy of the system of identification of equidae, making the first amendment to Decree-Law No 123 / 2013 of 28 August and 1007 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ) — Improves the system of identification of functional ability of equidae and introduces the possibility of being registered as pets ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 123 / 2013 of 28 August ). of the fourth point is the assessment of Petition No 200 / XIV / 2. a — ( Ana Nascimento et al.) — Immediate access to Kaftrio® for patients with cystic fibrosis in Portugal, together with discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 1016 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures necessary for faster access to innovative therapies for patients with cystic fibrosis, 1054 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of support measures for patients with cystic fibrosis, 1060 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Increased agility and speed in access to innovative therapies, 1067 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Access to therapeutic innovation for patients with cystic fibrosis, 1115 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — By making treatment time more suitable for patients with cystic fibrosis, 1119 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — It proposes access measures to medicines used in the treatment of cystic fibrosis. the fifth and last item on our agenda is the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Very good rest of the day to all and to all and very good night. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 16 minutes.]]
