ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start the plenary session. [[It was 14 hours and 33 minutes.]] The first item on the agenda today is a vote, followed by the debate with the Government on general policy. Before we begin our work, I ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to give the House the usual information.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. I will announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President to several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Law Nos 89 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, 90 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 14. the Commission, and 91 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. the Commission. Law No. 824 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 825 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 826 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 1. a and 9. the Commission. I shall then refer to Parliamentary Appreciation No 48 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and the Draft Deliberation No. 13 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR). Finally, they also entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 1246 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 1247 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which fall to 11. the Commission, 1248 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1251 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 1252 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 1253 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 12. a and 13. a Commissions, 1254 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1255 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 1256 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1257 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 1258 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u3	Let us therefore enter our agenda, with the vote on the Draft Deliberation No 13 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Establishment of a possible Constitutional Review Committee, which has already been approved by the Conference of Leaders and whose possession is marked by tomorrow at the end of the plenary session. Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absences of the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] As Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are now in a position to move to the second point of our agenda, which consists of the debate with the Government on general policy under Article 224 ( a) ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. I have the floor to begin this debate, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister : I bring back to this debate the subject of vaccination because, despite the efforts of thousands of professionals and programme managers, the situation we have in the country is still far from satisfactory and could be better. We have stressed that in the fight against COVID-19, it is necessary to act decisively in three directions: in the mass testing, defining strict criteria and priorities; in the tracking of all new cases and contacts by these carried out, with strengthening of the professionals of the public health structure; and in the expansion and urgency given to the vaccination of all, because it is the most solid solution to solve the problem in the long term. There are still many obstacles to the rapid development of vaccination: lack of professionals, particularly nurses in vaccination centres, lack of vaccines and conditionalities in taking some of the vaccines acquired. These are two questions I would like to ask you. A first question relates to the lack of professionals in vaccination centres. I ask you, Prime Minister, why does the Government not intend to renew contracts with hundreds of nurses that were admitted in periods of greater epidemic intensity? Another is to explain the insistence on a strategy of follow-up to the decisions of the European Commission which prevents the country from having access to the vaccines it needs by not seeking to diversify the purchase of other vaccines already referred to by the World Health Organization ( WHO ). [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u5	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u6	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, first of all the vaccination plan has been implemented in accordance with the planned plan, despite the vicissitudes, which are public in the supply of vaccines by Astrazeneca and also because age restrictions have been introduced on the use of Astrazeneca and Janssen vaccines. Nevertheless, it was possible to reform the plan and maintain the objectives that were set. at this time, there is already a first dose of vaccination for the entire population above 70 years of age. during this week, the vaccination of the entire population above 65 years of age will be completed and the vaccination of people above 60 years of age is already scheduled. This in addition to all the vaccination effort that was made, within the framework of state resilience, in fundamental sectors such as health, education, the Armed Forces and security forces. So we've been working on the schedule, and what's going on is that between the middle and the end of the summer, we can have 70% of the population properly vaccinated. Secondly, in the context of the budget negotiations, particularly with the Portuguese Communist Party, a set of commitments was made regarding the opening of invitations to enter staff in the health sector. This competition was opened, the office was signed — which I believe was published today, and, in this context, it is intended, in particular, to hire a sufficient number of nurses to allow the inclusion in the tables of nurses hired on a temporary basis for this vaccination operation, and this temporary participation is a preferential condition for admission. For other vaccines, there is no restriction on their use provided they are licensed by the European Medicines Agency. There are several vaccines that are currently licensed, there are several others that are in the process of evaluation and, as they are being approved, we will also proceed with the acquisition of these vaccines, because, as the virus does not have nationality, also vaccines do not have nationality. The vaccine that is effective and recognized by EMA (European Medicines Agency) is the vaccine that we should use. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u7	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the PCP, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, the problem is that the existing vacancies do not serve to safeguard the integration of these nurses, that the government seems more or less willing to get rid of. Mr. Prime Minister, the workers are affected by the arbitrary exploitation that everything sacrifices to the accumulation of profit, while national interests and the development of the country are shrugged. Galp closes Matosinhos refinery. How many million euros does Galp receive, invoking environmental protection, to destroy hundreds of jobs, replace national production by imports and thus seriously harm the country?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u10	In Groundforce, a capitalist whom the PSD/CDS government has handed over to the company has used its control to obtain dividends, blackmails the public interest, plays scandalously with wages and the employment of workers. The arrogance and the face displayed are not tolerable. Groundforce is accurate and cannot be an instrument for blackmail, its public control must be guaranteed to serve the country and safeguard workers' rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u12	The violation of workers' rights, precariousness, temporary employment or service delivery companies, the conditions of housing and degraded health, the mafias spoken about Odemira, set the nude, for those who only now wanted to see, the situation of hundreds of thousands of workers, particularly immigrants, to which the CFP has long warned. It is not only in agriculture, but also in other sectors such as fisheries; it is not only in Odemira, but also in other regions of the country that this situation of slave labour is occurring. There is a problem in the Labour Code and its successive amendments, but there is still compliance with its limits. It is necessary to repeal the serious standards of labour law and to ensure the intervention of the authorities, starting with the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ), which must have the necessary human and technical means, appropriate guidance and executive powers, as the CFP has long proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u14	Mr Prime Minister, when are we going to solve these fundamental problems, in particular the Labour Code and the Act? Mr. Prime Minister, let us not think that, by raising the sanitary fences in two of Odemira's fregueses, the problem has been solved. The problem is greater and, in this particular context, we could well say that we are facing a weak government in front of the powerful and strong government in front of the unjust. This amendment must happen, recognizing the rights to which it works, recognizing the right to have rights, which does not exist in many parts of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u15	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u16	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, first of all, for nurses, the government does not want to be free of any nurses, on the contrary. We have not only been strengthening the National Health Service, as in the context of the last State budget, we have negotiated as a CFP a programme for its strengthening and for concrete contracts. The office that was published today opened a contest to fill 2470 vacancies and, of them, only for nurses, are 1366. Then we can see who are affected by primary health care, those who are affected by public health, those who are affected by hospital responses, in terms of intensive medicine. It is therefore a competition that meets all the rules entered into in the Budget on the basis of the agreement with the CFP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, it is clear that this crisis has made it particularly clear the need for regulation of working relationships that have been gaining absolutely intolerable atypicality and that they are a very serious factor of social vulnerability. In the context of the discussions in the Green Paper on the Future of Work, which are under way in social dialogue, these issues are being dealt with. The specific situation of Odemira is not new and has multiple dimensions. It has dimensions of compatibility of the capacity to strengthen national production and national autonomy in food matters, with the environmental values that it is important to preserve within the natural park. There is a need for decent working and housing conditions for seasonal workers and workers living in the parish. And, yesterday, I know that the most visible news was that of the survey of the sanitary fence, but the most important thing happened, in Odemira, were the two protocols signed, one of them, with the municipality of Odemira and another, with the three representative associations of agricultural producers, Lusomorango, Portugal Fresh and the Association of Horticultors, Fruit farmers and Floricultors of the Councils of Odemira and Aljezur. these two protocols sought precisely to respond to something that is absolutely critical and has to do with housing conditions. With the City Council of Odemira, a protocol was signed for the presentation of the municipal housing strategy, which gives access to 100% funding for the construction, reconstruction and acquisition of housing for all those who live and work in Odemira, have been born there or have gone to live there recently. Secondly, an agreement was signed with the owners of agricultural holdings to ensure decent housing for seasonal workers, who will always exist in agricultural activity, for which the owners agreed to assume this responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u17	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u18	I'm done now, Mr. President. And we have also made provision for funding from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development so that we can support this effort. So, more important than the lifting of the sanitary fence is we had the opportunity to face this fundamental problem...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u19	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u20	... with a concrete calendar that responds to a serious problem, which has accumulated over decades in that council. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u21	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the PCP, continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, never forget this: housing is important, but workers need decent wages and rights. And that question is not considered. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the history of the New Bank gave the CFP a reason. If it is true that the PSD/CDS government, under the troika baton, has deceived the Portuguese and lied about the value of the resolution, sweeping the BES ( Banco Espírito Santo) garbage under the New Bank carpet, it is not wrong to claim that the PS government option, to continue the business conceived by the PSD/CDS, was equally disastrous for the country. unlike the national interest imposed, the government chose to hand over the New Bank to foreign capital, leaving the country even more deprived of instruments for financing the economy. In addition to having already cost EUR 8 billion, the New Bank may even cost the Portuguese even more because, as the Court itself claims, there is no control over the sale of the New Bank's assets, even though it is a sale financed by the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u23	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u24	I'm done in 10 seconds, Mr. President. They are losses of debts, properties sold at balance price, business financing and private adventures, unacceptable premiums to managers, all paid by the State budget. How much more money, Prime Minister, will it be necessary to spend for the State to call upon you power over the New Bank? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u25	Mr Prime Minister no longer has time to give this answer, but he will certainly incorporate it into future interventions. Mr Rui Rio of the PSD Parliamentary Group now has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u26	Mr President, the Prime Minister did not have time to respond to the CFP on the New Bank, but he will have time to answer me exactly on the same subject. Between 2014 and 2017, the New Bank received EUR 4, EUR 9 billion from the State. Even so, in 2017, made by the Government of António Costa, it guaranteed more 3, 9 billion euros, which adds, as Mr Jerónimo de Sousa pointed out, 8, 8 billion euros, of which taxes are EUR 8 billion. It is €800, on average, to each Portuguese. This money was used to build a central hospital in each district of the country, i.e. 18 central hospitals, or to build a health center in each of the parish of mainland Portugal. In view of this, I asked the Government, precisely one year ago, whether it was checking whether the New Bank was not selling credits to the wreckage, if it was not selling property below balance price, well below the value of a balance sheet that had been audited and re-audited I do not know how many times and if I knew who were the recipients of these bargains. Finally, I was asking the Prime Minister this very simple thing and which I said here: when the New Bank presents the invoice, check whether the invoice is correct, whether it is indeed due? We suspected it wasn't. Now, with the Court of Auditors audit, we know perfectly well that the government does not verify anything. The question I ask is this: before the bill you have on the table—one more bill! — will you pay without taking care of what that is, or will you this time check if that money is really due and it should be paid? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u27	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u28	Mr. President, Mr. Rui Rio, as you know, this government has already taken office as the resolution of the New Bank has been decided. That resolution had a deadline, within which, of two, one : either was sold or was liquidated. In fact, recently my predecessor said that he was surprised by the failure of the attempt to sell, because there was great optimism about his expectations. The fact is that the sale, which was attempted in the time of the previous government, did not result and the sale, which was already initiated in the course of my previous government, had a competitor at that final stage. Something should mean the lack of interest in the request of a bank for its acquisition. In fact, the acquisition was made on one condition, which was the guarantee that there would be a mechanism by the Resolution Fund to ensure that the capital needs would be met by the European Central Bank ( ECB ), according to a set of assets on which there were many doubts. What was then sought to ensure was the fixing of a maximum risk: EUR 3, EUR 9 billion. This is the ceiling which has been limited, so that we are not in uncertainty, and this money is provided by the Resolution Fund, whose funding comes from the bank's contributions. As the recent fund and the bank's contributions are still insufficient, for several years the State has had to lend the necessary money to the Resolution Fund and has been duly remunerated in interest, having so far received EUR 588 million of interest from the loans it has made. These loans are not donations, they are even loans. The payment is long-term, but over the next few decades, the state, taxpayers will recover the money that was lent to the bank, and the bank has been paying the loan made. As you know, this year, it was determined that there would be no State funding and therefore there would be no State funding. If you ask me if there is verification by the Resolution Fund, I will reply to you that there is, of course, one. I remind you that, when you did here last July, a number of concrete accusations about the mismanagement of the New Bank, I was careful to ask the Attorney-General of the Republic to initiate an investigation on the basis of the allegations that you made. And you know the answer from the Attorney General's Office of the Republic ( PGR ) : is that the charges you made were unfounded. This is the answer given by the Attorney-General of the Republic. I don't have anything else to say to you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u29	Mr Rui Rio, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, the sale had a candidate, Lone Star, because you put aside other candidates such as the Apollo Fund or the BCP Group itself, which at that time was interested. It was just Lone Star, because you guys just wanted Lone Star.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u31	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u32	As for the loan to be paid, I have already had the opportunity to use a popular saying here, saying yes, but that is « when the chickens have teeth ». We're all gonna be too old to see the payment part of what's due. [[PSD applause.]] As for the Attorney-General of the Republic, it is true that Mr. Prime Minister says and I am amazed at the effectiveness of the PGR. The Court of Auditors takes an infinity of time to produce a work which still falls short of what the Assembly of the Republic has asked for; the PGR, in a week, knows that it is all right. [[PSD applause.]] Because we are going to deliver a more detailed exposure to the PGR this week to see if the PGR, also in 15 days, solves the problem of the New Bank. Right out, right out! [[PSD applause.]] But, Prime Minister, the Court of Auditors audit brought us a surprise. It is not « after all there was another», but it is after all there was more! And the more it is: beyond 3, 9 billion euros, it will have more than 400 million euros of convertible bonds, or it may have, and more 1, 6 billion euros of public money. The total is no longer EUR 8, EUR 8 billion, but EUR 10, EUR 8 billion. Mrs. Members, 10, 8 billion euros is more than 80 % of what the State receives annually from IRS ( income tax for natural persons) paid by all Portuguese people and is much more than that the State receives annually from IRC ( income tax for legal persons) from all companies operating in Portugal. It's a lot more than that. So, Prime Minister, I will ask you the following: is it true that, beyond 3 billion euros, we still have to pay these 2 billion euros? And if so, as far as EUR 1, EUR 6 billion is concerned, the question I ask you is this: is that for capital, that is, the State will also become a shareholder of the New Bank beyond the Resolution Fund and the Lone Star, or is it a substantial subsidy lost to the New Bank, for example those that have so far been given? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u33	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u34	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, I find, with some surprise, that he trusts more in the physiological evolution of hens than in the Attorney-General of the Republic. But, finally, each one has his own convictions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the issue which you have raised, I would ask only that the statement made by the Banco de Portugal be distributed to you, clarifying the distinction between the quota capital mechanisms and those mechanisms which are not subsidized but are not State capital participation, therefore having no correlation with the quota capital mechanism. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u35	Mr Rui Rio continues to use the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u36	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, therefore, the answer, without being given, is yes. And yes, it means that, beyond all this, more than EUR 2 billion can still go to the New Bank. This is actually the answer. [[PSD applause.]] So I'm going to say one thing, which at first is the same as Mr Jerome de Sousa said, but then, at the end, it's different: the New Bank's own capitals, when you sold it, were EUR 4.5 billion, after the New Bank received EUR 4.9 billion. Thus, the capitals themselves did not even reach the money that had already been put down there. Then they came to give more 3, 9 billion euros and now more 2 billion euros. And now I say what I said even before I take up the position I hold today — before I become President of the PSD — but I say again: it is more valuable that I have remained in the possession of the state. It is that, in the possession of the State, it did not sell assets completely to waste and privatization—and here we differ from the CFP — to do now, the profit, to exist, to come all the way here. What is the role of Lone Star? Selling undervalues anyway, getting the taxpayer's money and now selling the bank and the profit is all for the shareholder. On the way, he awards awards to the Board of Directors because he has managed to optimize damage. This is because before the contract that you have signed what he has to do is actually to have damage, because the Portuguese taxpayer pays. [[PSD applause.]] So tell me, Prime Minister, are you able to tell the Portuguese, through the Assembly of the Republic, that the sale that this government made of the New Bank is not a complete disaster for Portugal? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u37	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u38	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, I am in a position to tell the Portuguese that the sale of the New Bank has prevented a disaster for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I don't want to go back to history and know about the goodness or evil of who in 2014 decided the resolution of the New Bank according to what it did. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the fundamental conclusion of the Court of Auditors' report that you have. Ex.as requested, that it ended up not in the management of the New Bank, but in the management of the Resolution Fund, it is only one:...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u39	Just one? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u40	... is that alienation protected the public interest, guaranteed the stability of the financial system and avoided the systemic risk of the liquidation of the New Bank. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What are you guys talking about? Members insist on trying to hide from Portuguese is that, first, for months, for electoral reasons,... [[Protests from PSD MP Lina Lopes.]] ... failed to fulfil the commitment they had made with the European Union to secure the liquidation of Banif ( Banco Internacional do Funchal ) to protect the elections. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And they made the commitment — calendared! — either the New Bank was sold or the New Bank was liquidated. And when I say we saved the country from a disaster, it was because it would have been a disaster, indeed, the systemic risk—that was avoided! — the instability of the financial system and we do not have, with the sale of the New Bank, the international credibility of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Dr. Rui Rio, I ask you just one second of your attention to look at this chart. This graph is the evolution of the Republic's interest rate. The speaker displayed the document he mentioned. [[PSD protests.]] Do you know the moment when this interest rate reversal is given and this constant and very sharp decrease in the Republic's interest rate begins? [[PSD protests.]] It was immediately following the sale of the New Bank and the international guarantee that Portuguese public finances would not be burdened with a new financial system crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u41	Mr Rui Rio, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister, nothing prevented us from having a solution like that in England, an English bank whose main protagonist of recovery was also a Portuguese, in which the English taxpayers had not had to contribute what ours are contributing and then, at the end, the profit of sale, privatization—which must indeed be done, but at the right time—it was all for the English taxpayers, while we, here, continue to suffer. [[PSD applause.]] With regard to the fall in the interest rate of Portuguese public debt, it is due solely to the monetary policy of the European Central Bank. Open... [[PSD applause.]] If it were for the evolution of Portuguese public debt, Portuguese public debt in absolute value rose throughout the time when you were Prime Minister! What dropped was a ratio, a relationship! The total global value of debt has always risen. [[PSD applause.]] But let me, Prime Minister — to finish — ask you here about something I consider to be shameful and has to do with the case of the dams. In Miranda do Douro it was the Miranda Lands Cultural Movement, a civic association to defend its land. And in this sense, this association has led the fight against the fact that EDP (Energy of Portugal) does not want to pay the taxes that are due for the sale of the six dams. This association has, within it, capable people, technically capable people. Now, what happens to this? in an absolutely intolerable prosecution, in the wake of the new State, the Ministry of Finance opened an investigation process to an official of the Tax and Customs Authority ( AT ), because he is a member of the movement and, in this capacity, wrote one of the technical documents which was submitted to Mr. President of the Republic and to the Government, in this case to Mr. Minister of Environment and Climate Action. This is unacceptable! This is trying to keep people quiet because of the coercion. That's what I'm asking for! [[PSD applause.]] Raising an inquiry process to a person who is in a civic association and who uses his technical knowledge is absolutely shameful, Prime Minister! It was indeed a preventive document, because it was coming to warn of what was going to happen, since it appeared before the sale of the dams themselves. Let me say the following: The government is losing discernment. Mr. Minister of Internal Administration invades private property in the middle of the night, with a strong police device,... [[PSD applause.]] ...the same police device yesterday, about the parties, was unable to do what he was competing with. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance raises investigation procedures to AT officials only because they have civic participation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u43	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u44	Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask: in view of this attitude of your Ministry of Finance, what are you going to say to you, Prime Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u45	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u46	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, first of all, contrary to what happened in England, in the case of the bank where Dr António Horta Osório was able to intervene in its recovery, the option in Portugal, in 2014, was by the bank's resolution. It was a unique experience and,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u47	I was missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u48	...as much as I believe so far has not been repeated in any part of Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was certainly a consciously weighted option, at least by the generality of the members of the then government — even knowing that some took notice of the decision and said yes to the passing between the car and the beach when they were entering the beach! I admit that the central government was aware of what I was doing. What happens, despite everything? The State maintains 25 % of the capital. Therefore, in that future moment, when the honourable Member sees that the bank will have that value and will generate these bad profits, the State will be at least 25%. In addition, by 2040 or 2046, the State will continue to receive the repayment of the loan it has made to the Resolution Fund, charging until then the due interest—I repeat, until now we have received EUR 588 million of interest only in these years. The debt ratio has actually improved, but improved because since 2015 the Portuguese economy has grown and, above all, since 2017, 2018 and 2019 not only grew as it grew above the European average and we again converged with the European Union. That is why the debt ratio had this evolution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputy is telling half the truth. It is indisputable: it was not the policy of the European Central Bank, no European country,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u49	...with the exception, perhaps, Germany and a few more, would be benefiting from a low interest rate context. But this intervention by the European Central Bank began - as is recalled in 2012, I repeat in 2012! Now the chart I have here to present to you does not go back to 2012, it dates back to 2017, the month following the alienation of the New Bank. The speaker displayed the document previously displayed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u50	Show me what's back!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u51	did something change on the part of the ECB at that time? Oh, my God! Don't! What changed was that the markets were confident that Portuguese public finances would not be affected again by a new financial crisis such as the one announced with the settlement date marked for the New Bank. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the last question, Mr President, I do not know at all the opening of any investigation. I must say it's hard for me to believe there's been the opening of an investigation for a crime of opinion... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u52	... or by the employee's participation in the preparation of a challenge document to a government decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u53	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u54	Mr President, I will now conclude. I'd be very surprised. But if this has happened, of course, it is absolutely unacceptable, either in the Ministry of Finance or in any other ministry. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u55	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u56	Mr President, Prime Minister, there were two key points of disagreement between the Bloc and the Government with regard to the New Bank. First, and unlike the fiction created by the Government of a cost-free sale, the Block has always considered that all funds injected by the Resolution Fund are of a public nature and fall on taxpayers, regardless of whether it is a loan to the Resolution Fund coming from the Treasury or from the Bank. This is not only because all the money coming out of the Fund for the bank goes to the deficit, I stress, all the money coming out of the Resolution Fund for the New Bank goes to the deficit, but also because the contributions that finance the Resolution Fund have the nature of taxes, those that are assigned to the Resolution Fund, and could serve other public services. Secondly, we always argue, unlike the Government, that the New Bank sale contract to Lone Star with a guarantee of EUR 3900 million created a conflict of interest without any control mechanisms. As we have seen, the bank administration has every interest in making decisions that maximize the value of the public injection and all the management acts, not only those relating to the portfolio of toxic assets. All the management acts Lone Star is making of the New Bank count for the money it will seek from the Resolution Fund and not just the toxic assets. The Court of Auditors was right to the Block and denied the Government on both of these points. And I said this today, clearly here: not only has the impact on public accounts been minimized, since payments to the New Bank constitute public expenditure and cost taxpayers, as the moral risk resulting from conflicts of interest created by public guarantee has not been reduced. So I have a first question that is whether Mr. Prime Minister looks at his position and withdraws the claim that the New Bank will not have direct or indirect impacts on public accounts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u57	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u58	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, does not change what I said and I will explain why it does not change. And it's not a matter of theimosia. As has always been explained, the Resolution Fund, as it is being financed over the years by the appropriations of the banks, has not — it has not yet had it! — at present, the allocation needed to deal with that situation. Therefore, the State made the loan. This loan, from the point of view of the accounting register at this stage, is mainly a expenditure record, because there is a transfer. As long as quota capital is exhausted, there will be no expenditure and there will be only registration of the revenue. at this time, expenditure is higher than revenue, for many years there will be a higher revenue than expenditure. This, moreover, I have no doubt, because the Bloc itself, in a document he made about the New Bank, says : "When will the State be reimbursed for the loans of the resolution? Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, the Bloc Members have no doubt that this is a loan or that the State will be reimbursed. What the Block criticizes is that reimbursement lasts until 2046, when, according to Mr Rui Rio, the chickens will already have teeth, but as regards the essence there is no doubt and the Block does not put them. This is a loan that will be reimbursed, with interest, up to 2046. Therefore, taxpayers will not have a cost, taxpayers are currently making a loan from which they will recover, with interest. That's what I said, that's what I keep and that's the reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u59	Mrs Catarina Martins, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u60	Mr President, Prime Minister, record that does not agree with the Court of Auditors, but also record two things: one does not deny that the deficit is going, the other is that the problem remains. Even if the banks come to make the refund, that refund is taxed, which, if not for that refund, could go to health, education or any other area.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u61	They couldn't, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u62	We could, we could!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u63	Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to ask you another question. The contract signed with the New Bank, which until recently was a secret, does not prevent the award of management prizes and does not prevent the New Bank from making decisions that purposefully reduce its capital to seek more to the public guarantee. And there is another problem, which is to guarantee the New Bank a minimum capital level of 12 %. The ECB reduced the capital requirements of all system banks and, in the case of the New Bank, the reduction was to 8, 25 %. Now, the New Bank already has the capital ratio of 8, 25 %, up to 10 %, meaning that accepting the injection of 460 million euros will be giving a bonus to the New Bank, overcapitalising it at the cost of public accounts. Mr Prime Minister, in view of this reduced or no need for capital ratios that the New Bank has, we wanted to know what initiatives the Government took with Lone Star to suspend the payment this year, taking into account the special circumstances. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u64	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u65	Mr President, I also note that the honourable Member does not deny that it is a refundable and repayable loan with interest on taxpayers. Secondly, the flexibility of the European Central Bank is temporary, and this means that past this phase of the crisis, the ratios will have to be restored to previous levels. Thirdly, as you know — despite the ease of language when you say that I will accept — I must not accept nor fail to accept anything because this assessment is made by the Resolution Fund. at this time the Resolution Fund is considering either the request of the New Bank or the audits of the Court of Auditors, or Deloitte's audit and will certainly decide on what it considers to be due. There is one thing I would like you to have no doubt about, because there is here a misunderstanding about whether contingent capital covers only the risks of that pre-delimited universe of doubtful or toxic assets or whether it also covers current activity. Do not cover the current activity. What happens... at this moment, the member of BE Mariana Mortágua speaks to the ears of the Member of BE Catarina Martins. I may stop for Mrs. Member to hear Mrs. Mariana Mortágua better...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u66	Listen to both of you at the same time!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u67	Ah! Listen to the two of you at the same time. All right! It's just that I admitted that the honourable Member was saying something different than what I was saying and not simply echoing what I was saying, and then there might be some confusion. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, it is very clear in this context that there are negative impacts on the capital of these assets which are not processed in the year itself and which fall within the following years. That's all and that's all that's been covered, and nothing to do with the bank's current management. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u68	Mrs Catarina Martins, of the Left Block, continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u69	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have already established that the loan is public debt...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u70	The loan!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u71	... and that is paid by taxes that are from the State. So pay the taxpayers. We have also established that, this year, the New Bank does not need any injections to meet the capital ratios to which it is bound. What is incomprehensible is that the government has not yet tried, with Lone Star, to ensure that there will be no injections — which, as has already been established here, always burden the taxpayers — in a year in which it is not even necessary to fulfil capital ratios. This government liabilities in the face of something that the State and the taxpayers are truly unacceptable, even more so during the period we are going through. Mr. Prime Minister, when we were discussing the State Budget for this year, the Left Block proposed that the authorization for the Resolution Fund be abolished to carry out expenditure in the New Bank, this to force an independent audit to be carried out, but also for any new expenditure to be necessarily discussed and voted in the Assembly of the Republic. At the time, the Socialist Party called for this proposal from the ‘atomic bomb’ Left Block, saying that it would lead the bank to a new resolution. [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] The proposal was approved, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there has not been a new resolution and we are here today and it is proven, with the data we have, that Parliament has taken a sensible decision when adopting the proposal of the Left Block. The question I am asking, Prime Minister, is this: before the evidence raised by the Court of Auditors and taking into account the determination of the Assembly of the Republic, does it undertake not to take any injection decision without debate and approval by Members? More: is it committed that the Resolution Fund will not make any injections without Parliament's permission? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u72	You have the floor to answer Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u73	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, let us go back to the issue. There's a point of understanding, finally. The honourable Member, once again, acknowledged that it is a loan, but to expect a loan to be a taxpayer's charge, is the same as you would like — this is an idea that the Portuguese know well — that, when they ask for a loan for the purchase of their house, the charge is from the bank. It's not! The charge is who I hired the loan. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the charge of these loans is not the taxpayer. The state has been the bank of the banks. The charge is who hired the loan, which was the Resolution Fund, and will be paid by the banks. Just as when a citizen borrows money from the bank to buy the house the charge is not from the bank, the charge is from the person who will have to pay the loan from the house. We understand this once and for all to be clear. Madam Member, I have had the opportunity to say that Portugal is a rule of law where the obligations are to be met. Under the law of the budgetary framework, it is also mandatory to enter into the State budget all compulsory expenditure, i.e. all expenditure resulting from existing contracts valid at the date of approval of the State budget. In the State budget, the only commitment we have made was that the State would not lend money to the Resolution Fund and it was also responsible for finding an alternative financing solution, this time by using a loan that is granted to it by the bank. But, of course, I will never take up the compromise that the honourable Member is asking for here and that is a commitment to breach the contractual obligations, because Portugal has to maintain its credibility as a rule of law and the contracts are to be fulfilled. Therefore, the Resolution Fund may and should fulfil the contract to the extent that the funds are properly provided for and justified from the contractual point of view. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u74	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u75	Mr. President, Prime Minister, the banks will pay the loan to the State with the state money because it is a tax that the bank owes to the State and that goes to the Resolution Fund. It's like it's the bank that lent the money, who's also paying the benefits! It's always the taxpayers, it's always the state that pays. That is what the Court says, which goes further by saying that stability has not been guaranteed by sale. It says stability has been guaranteed, yes, by the public guarantee and by the money of the taxpayers who are being injected into the New Bank and it had nothing to be. [[Congratulations from BE.]] In fact, it didn't even have to be injected because the capital ratios went down and the bank didn't need the injection. We know that there are errors in the management that are being detected and administrators still pay bonuses to themselves after they are damaged. Does the Prime Minister say that the contract is worth so much that he cannot look at everything that is happening and that he denies the need, weighting, wisdom, public interest in a new injection? What about the law? Oh, my God! Parliament has decided that the Resolution Fund is not authorized to make this injection and what Mr. Prime Minister is saying is that he will do it regardless of the law. And that, Prime Minister, is not acceptable. I would also like to tell you about other issues, particularly Odemira, but I do not have time and I will therefore leave for a next round. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u76	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u77	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, we understand ourselves once and for all: taxpayers are not paying and injecting money into the New Bank. The taxpayers are lending money to the Resolution Fund, which will charge the banks who, in this case, are the taxpayers of the Resolution Fund. The honourable Member will say « but it is only in 2046 ».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u78	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u79	It's only in 2046, but over the years they're paying. When you say you haven't paid, that's not right. They have already paid EUR 588 million of interest and will continue to pay interest until the total settlement. This is the first point. Secondly, Mrs Deputy, there is no rule in the State Budget which prohibits the Resolution Fund from fulfilling the contract. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u80	There's no standard to say that, I repeat. The only thing that happened was not to have been recorded a specific amount and, as much as I remember, it was because at the time the PSD understood that it was an uncertain amount of unknown amount, because that involved the assessment of capital needs. The honourable Member says 'but they are going to pay the premiums and this and that'... Madam Member, let us wait. There is a time for each intervention: there was a time when the bank made its request; the time when the accounts were audited by the monitoring committee; the time when they were accompanied by the international reviewer; the time when they were verified by the Deloitte audit. We now also have the audit of the Court of Auditors, which is not about the bank, but it is about the Resolution Fund, which is doing its work...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u81	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u82	I shall now conclude, Mr President. The Resolution Fund is now doing its assessment work, he said, to be able to verify whether or not all those funds are justified, whether or not all those operations are covered or not, and whether, in particular, the performance premiums, should or should not be covered by this mechanism. We expect the Resolution Fund to take action and then the government will see whether or not there is any intervention on its part. For now, we await the work of the Resolution Fund. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u83	Mr. Prime Minister, by the way, I was not concluding. Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u84	Mr President, Prime Minister, I will talk to you a little bit about Odemira, but before that, about yesterday's events, let me quote His Excellency the President of the Republic, who said, referring to last night's celebrations, that "who must prevent has failed to prevent". My first question, Prime Minister, is whether you have any idea about whom Mr. President of the Republic would be referring because, surely, this would be for someone in particular and you will know who Mr. President of the Republic was speaking to. In this regard, I must say that I understand, as the Prime Minister also realizes — from this point of view, we both understand! — the parties and the joy of the followers. All of this we understand. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] I also understand, naturally, the difficulties of the police, because it's always a difficult time, it's always a moment... [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Mr President, do you want to calm down and let me ask Mr. Prime Minister questions? Thank you. This is a democracy, sir! We understand the difficulties of the police, the demands of that moment, etc. What I don't understand, Mr Prime Minister — and that's what I wanted to ask you about — is why there was so little information, so little planning. Why didn't you know before? Why wasn't the plan disclosed in advance? Why weren't things organized and planned? It is that we have already, either in the internal administration, or in the Directorate-General of Health, to regulate to the millimeter where the chairs are. There's no public in football and yesterday, apparently, nothing was planned. That is my first question and, of course, the question is also, Prime Minister, whether or not there are consequences. As far as Odemira is concerned, consequences have already been asked for. In Odemira, what happened was that, because of incompetence, we had an intervention that abused private property, which walked, in the morning, with dogs and police equipment, to move people and then, as I could not, transferred them back again. Question: Did the government not know about this situation? The municipal chamber didn't know? What was the act doing? Look, the SEF (Foreign and Border Service) knew! He knew and opened processes. Only for Odemira were six! What is extraordinary is that it has not been heard, that it has not given it the means to do its work and that the final conclusion has been, on the basis of a terrible crime, to dismantle the only service most specialized in this matter. That's the point, Prime Minister! This government boasted everywhere in Europe, in the world, if necessary, of being the exemplary government in immigration and integration. I have the citations here and I will not waste much time on it, but the Minister of the Environment praised the containers as being a magnificent thing; the Minister of Internal Administration said that Odemira was a unique case, a remarkable example of social responsibility. Well, the Secretary of State then rejoiced with Odemira. Therefore, this government, which boasted in this way, had already had the issue of hostels and is now exposed to this situation. I also ask you, Prime Minister, if you have noticed that all this has to do with something that has not yet been discussed in the country: this has to do with the change of the law of 2017! That's where this problem starts. [[Prime Minister's laughs, Antonio Costa.]] Why? Because until 2017 we had to have guarantees and we had to have terms of contract or at least a signed promise of contract and face-to-face presentation of immigrants themselves. The gentlemen, at the request of the Left Block, at the cost of management, gave away all of this. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] We reported this and said it was bad, and the PSD also said it at the time. It's just that you've moved on with the law and that's where you shoot the number of people coming in, which we don't control. And if we don't control who comes in, we don't guarantee them conditions of dignity. That's the problem! On the basis of a supposed argument of generosity, what we did was lead to this same situation to trigger the requests. Right after the law, there were 4,000 requests in one day. We passed an average of 4000, 5000 to 50 000. That was the problem, and this problem was created by you, Prime Minister — it was obviously a cost of management, so to speak. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Of course, with regard to the Internal Administration, Mr. Prime Minister, I would even say that « nothing in Odemira»! « No more Odemira », everything can happen. I leave you here a final report, Mr Prime Minister : smoking goons; Ihor Homenyuk case, inaction and dismantling of the SEF ; SIRESP (Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal ) without a two-month contract to start the fire season; the immigration networks in the Algarve, which were ridiculous, but we realized who was later in the ridiculous; the scams in Odemira and what happened there that night; the security forces without retroactives, an absolute chaos in the security forces...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u85	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies. It's been a long time since he had it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u86	I should like to conclude by asking the Prime Minister the following: assuming that the Socialist Party's agenda and places of trust do not overlap with the country's agenda, there will be consequences or not and when there will be consequences, because of course this position and this reality is unsustainable. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u87	Whitening of explorers!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u88	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u89	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, thank you very much for the questions. With regard to yesterday's events, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration had already had an opportunity to make a statement, first asking the PSP for information on how all planning with all the entities involved, from the Sporting Club of Portugal to the City Council of Lisbon and the Directorate-General for Health, and then asking the Inspector General of Internal Administration to investigate the operation of the Public Security Police in that context yesterday. We all have a good idea of what football passion is, that is, football passion exacerbated by 19 years of waiting and, of course, we should have a good idea that, even in countries which we all used to respect, for example, the United Kingdom, we have recently seen very tense situations. So, I won't throw stones at anyone, I won't throw stones at Sporting, I just have to congratulate him for winning the championship, I won't, of course, throw stones at the club supporters, who manifested themselves yesterday; I won't throw stones at the police,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...I will do what any responsible politician should do in these circumstances, which is to wait for the information, clarification and clarification of the facts to remove the responsibilities due to this matter. For Odemira, no, Mr, the problem has nothing to do with the 2017 law. What happens in Odemira has to do with something very important, with which some will agree and others will not — indeed, surprise - if the CDS did not agree - that is the following: indeed, agricultural production in Odemira has grown significantly and only in those 7000 ha have 15 % — 15 %! — the national export of fruit, vegetables and flowers. Now, the great growth of this activity has necessarily been accompanied by an increase in the labour force that works there,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u90	What about the conditions?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u91	... where some have set themselves as residents and others have a seasonal presence. To the indignity of the labour situation, which the ACT is investigating, to the human trafficking network, that the SEF is investigating, adds a problem of dignity of housing. That is why, in October 2019, the Council of Ministers adopted a resolution adopting an exceptional regime for intervention on the Mira river perimeter to ensure housing. The working group then began working at the end of 2019. As we all know, the year 2020 was a particularly atypical year, as it is evident, and at the same time the existence of the pandemic posed increased risks, problems added to living conditions, which are serious. You think it's just Odemira? The honourable Member is very wrong! Just see...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u92	And it's in the Algarve!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u93	No, it's not just in the Algarve, Mr. I remember as well as in June last year, when the whole country had defined, there were 19 parishes in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon who were in a situation of non-defination, because there is a direct correlation between the conditions of poor living conditions and the conditions of spreading the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, within the framework of the Recovery and Resilience Plan and immediately following the National Health Service, the second vulnerability we identified was precisely that of housing. And from housing to various titles: the housing of the 26 000 families that are under angry conditions, the housing that needs to be made accessible for the new generations and for the middle class and temporary housing that it is necessary to ensure, either for the homeless population or for victims of domestic violence, or for seasonal workers. The fact is that much of the investment provided for in the Recovery and Resilience Plan is intended precisely to respond to these realities. So when you ask me what the political consequences are, Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u94	Mr. Prime Minister has already exceeded the time he had in 19 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u95	Mr President, seeking not to exceed more than 25 seconds, I just wanted to tell the honourable Member that, for me, in politics, political consequences are this: there is a problem; political consequence: solving the problem. This is what is required of a politician. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u96	You now have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, I now begin by welcoming and praising the Government for the recent decision to finally ban the television broadcast of Tauromachic activities, a long-standing demand for the NAP and that it was a civilizational step which took time to be given, but more than ever before. On one of the issues that we have heard here from Mr Prime Minister and to which we cannot escape, Odemira, I would say that what Mr Prime Minister has been explaining remains beyond the reality he has mentioned — and to this extent we follow—because it is not exclusive neither of Odemira nor of the Algarve nor of the south of the country. From north to south and islands, it is indeed a structural problem, which we have not guarded in its various dimensions. And here we speak not only in the social dimension, but also in the environmental dimension. In fact, Odemira has shown us and has made it quite clear that human exploitation is also linked to the predatory natural resources. in this measure, Mr Prime Minister mentioned the familiar resolution of the Council of Ministers, of which we can no longer disagree because she has indeed aggravated the problem, Mr Prime Minister. It is that allowing 16 people to live, for example, in 7 m2 is not compatible with their claim that this is a human rights problem. We can no longer agree with your statement that this is clearly a loud human rights problem, but the resolution of the Council of Ministers does not resolve it, on the contrary, makes it worse. in this sense, Prime Minister, it would also be important to clarify what has been done in the area of supervision to understand the serious problem for which, at the time, the NAP alerted and that the Prime Minister and his government have devalued. We want to know what has been done in the area of surveillance over all this time, in addition to the said annex which had the seemingly fantastic living conditions and which would no longer have come to "guardize" immigrants, causing also a problem for the population itself in terms of housing. In addition to the resolution, Mr Prime Minister spoke recently in the protocols signed with the companies and with the municipal chamber itself, but the protocols aim only to transfer the European funds to the so-called companies. At least that's what we took away from his words. But it would not make much sense for the State to bet on what is a direct investment in housing to ensure that these companies, which have exploited these people and allowed there to be precariousness, to receive these money, have before there is direct support for the housing responses which, as you have just mentioned, have to be transversal — and we could not agree with the various dimensions of social vulnerability. in this particular theme it is very important to take advantage of and use this unique opportunity of European funds to structurally resolve housing problems, not only in Odemira, but throughout the country, integrating not only immigrant communities as the local population itself. As far as trafficking in human beings is concerned, Mr Prime Minister — and because in fact it is a cross-cutting problem in other areas — at the time of the State budget, the Government has committed itself to a NAP measure to strengthen the fight against trafficking in human beings, in particular in what may be the means that affect it. The closure of the SEF extinction process did not in any way make it possible to ensure the transition of the processes that were for investigation. in this sense, Prime Minister, I ask you what is being done by the Minister of Internal Administration to ensure that these processes are not stopped, when we know that standing up implies questioning human lives. To conclude, in this case there is an environmental dimension, and it is therefore necessary and essential that the scheme which the IGAMAOT itself ( General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Planning of the Territory) should be created in 2017,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. It's reaching the limit of the time it has.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u99	I really am concluding, Mr President. I said that IGAMAOT itself, in 2017, had already warned of the need for a proper legal regime for intensive and superintensive greenhouses and for intensive and superintensive agriculture. I ask whether or not Mr Prime Minister will follow not only this recommendation from IGAMAOT as this claim from the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u100	Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u101	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, first of all, the resolution of the October 2019 Council of Ministers sought to fill a gap that had been prolonged for a long time, creating conditions to find differentiated answers, because housing problems are differentiated and it is a mistake to mix realities that are completely different. Today, we have an effective problem of deregulation of the housing market for the middle class and for young generations. In this case, affordable rental policies are the appropriate policies. We have a set of families that live in situations of outrage, which we estimated in 2018 to be 26 000, but today the whole survey that municipalities are doing, for their local housing strategies, indicates to us rather higher numbers. Another completely different reality is that of seasonal workers. Therefore, when asking why companies are not the State, what I tell you is that it will be the State, in this case, in a broad sense through the municipality, which will ensure the implementation of Programme 1. the law, for the construction, acquisition or rehabilitation of housing for families who reside and work or work and reside in Odemira, permanently. And here everyone must be treated equally, whatever their origin. A different situation is a situation that is characteristic of agricultural activity, which has to do with seasonality and with a number of people who do not set themselves up in that council, who are in that council to sow or harvest and then follow to other parts of the country or to other parts of Europe, to do another type of agricultural work. And the housing response, in these cases, should or may be of a different nature from the response for those who settle with their family, constitutes their aggregate, makes their living base in Odemira. Now, these realities are different. We will respond with 100% funding to the municipality of Odemira for families living in Odemira who lack housing under conditions, we will support companies through the Rural Development Fund to have housing solutions for people who are temporarily on that farm to carry out a seasonal campaign. They are two different realities and must be treated differently. With regard to the Recovery and Resilience Plan, for the entire affordable housing policy, we mobilized around EUR 1500 million to ensure housing for families living in degraded conditions, we mobilised EUR 1250 million, and we still have EUR 176 million for temporary housing solutions, which cover very diverse situations, as I recently had the opportunity to say : can be shelters for victims of domestic violence, may be situations of transition to homeless people, may be temporary housing for workers of seasonal nature. Therefore, they are different realities, we have the funds in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, and now we can simply move from the stage of having the right ideas, of defining the good policies, to the stage of having the concrete instruments to be able to achieve them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u102	Mr. Prime Minister, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u103	In conclusion, in the process of extinction of the SEF, the responsibility for criminal investigation is expected to be transferred to the most appropriate police force to receive this competence, which is of course the Judicial Police,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u104	You have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u105	...a police of a scientific nature, dedicated to the fight against more complex, organized and transnational crime. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u106	Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u107	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, when we speak of Odemira, it should be noted that we are talking about the Natural Park of South-West Alentejano and Costa Vicentina, and we are not only talking about the problem of intensive agriculture and the proliferation of plastics that invade the park, we also talk about thousands of agricultural workers who are victims of illegal immigration aid networks, trafficking in persons and even of strong suspicions of slavery. In other words, in the Natural Park, in addition to the open-air plastic dumps, we also have serious violations of human rights, which are not only limited to the way migrant workers are exploited, but also to the absence of minimum living conditions, since it is certainly not alien to the rates of transmission of the virus. Mr. Prime Minister, in 2019, the Odemira Municipal Assembly expressed concern that the Government, in full Natural Park, would allow the increase of 30 % to 40 % in the area of covered structures.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u109	It's true! But that House also expressed concern that the Government had not set a maximum limit on the placing of agricultural workers in temporary housing. The government has defined employment values far superior to those proposed by the authorities, only once again responding to the demands of entrepreneurs and agricultural associations, and those who say they are not The Greens, is the Odemira Municipal Assembly, which, as we know, is a PS authority. This is precisely the resolution to which Mr Prime Minister has already referred, the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 179/ 2019, whose suspension is indeed claimed by the municipalities of Aljezur and Odemira. That is why it was important to understand not only the reasons that justify such passiveness on the part of the Government but also what the Government wants to do with that resolution, i.e. whether it will carry out its review, in order to find a balanced solution, for the sake of the management and conservation of this territory, or whether, after the outbreak, everything remains in the same. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u110	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u111	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I begin with the last question: if it were to remain in the same, we had not signed the protocol yesterday. The protocol involves a commitment: agricultural holdings until the end of 1. the quarter of 2022, therefore, until about nine months ago, must have completed the entire process of installation of decent housing for seasonal workers ; the municipal chamber has a deadline to present its municipal housing strategy and from then on can start to receive 100% funding to solve the housing problem. Sir, I've read once, but I'm going to read it again. ZERO, in fact, began to say that we had increased the greenhouse areas, but I will reread what ZERO wrote after revising what he had said. And what did ZERO recognize? It reads as follows: « Indeed, the Resolution of the Council of Ministers (... ) » — of October 2019 — « (...) now limits the area permitted for the installation of greenhouses, tunnels, tunnels and greenhouses to 40 % of the total of the Mira Kingdom Perimeter (...) when in the past the Regulation of the Management Plan of that protected area(...) allowed it to reach 80 %. Do not keep on seeking. ” So we didn't increase, we fell to half: it was 80 % and we dropped to 40 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u112	Mr José Luís Ferreira, DOS Verdes, continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u113	Mr President, Prime Minister, they have increased, yes, what did not increase was within agricultural holdings. Mr Prime Minister, I have a motion, approved by the Odemira Municipal Assembly, which is of the Socialist Party, as I have already said, that I would ask you to be distributed to the Prime Minister to see that the Minister of the Environment is mistaking the accounts, because he is confusing the whole part. Therefore, he asked the services to distribute this document to the banks and the government. Mr. Prime Minister, unfortunately, Odemira is not a single case. It is enough to look at the thousands of immigrants who catch omegajoa on the south bank of the Tejo, especially in the municipality of Alcochete, who live in equal or even worse conditions than those of the cases of Odemira. Many of these seafarers live in places without the minimum of dignity and without any sanitary conditions. Therefore, Prime Minister, it was important that he tell us what measures have been taken to verify the conditions in which these immigrants live and that health interventions have been developed with a view to preventing COVID in these communities. On the other hand, the illegally traded beet is not subject to analysis, treatment or any purification process and may reach the consumer contaminated with toxins and even heavy metals. In fact, part of this problem could be solved with the Bivalves Transformation and Valuation Unit in Barreiro, whose construction was announced by the Government in 2018. It happens that this construction is suspended and, therefore, what I ask is until the suspension of the construction of the Valuation Unit of Bivalves in the Barreiro. Finally, Mr. Prime Minister, about the New Bank, I will ask you a question I asked you about a year ago, because that is what the Portuguese want to know: when is the tournament closed to the New Bank?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u114	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u115	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I shall begin with the last question, which is the easiest one: under the contract, when the total ceiling is exhausted or next year, which is when the time limit for the use of this transition mechanism is exhausted, if not earlier, and I hope it will be earlier. Regarding the issue of seafarers, with regard to the debugger, it is stopped for reasons of engineering, because problems have been found in the foundations that have not yet been resolved. from the point of view of housing issues, solutions have been found and worked out with the municipality of Alcochete and, as I believe, is expected to sign next week the instrument for the development of the local housing strategy by the municipality of Alcochete. But I would also like to say to the honourable Member very sincerely that immigration policy is a policy that has to continue and does not have eruptions because of the phenomena that come back and half. In my part, I am very proud, in October this year, to spend 30 years that I was elected for the first time to this Assembly of the Republic and the first three bills of law that I then presented — the Lein 1, 2 and 3 Projects of this legislative session — if they had focused precisely on immigration policy, to ensure the extraordinary legalization of all immigrants who were kept clandestine by cavaquism, to become entitled to housing,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] ... because the law prohibits foreigners from having the right to social housing, and for the recognition of the right to vote of immigrants in the local elections. I am very proud to have been that way when I started my activity in this House and, over the last 30 years, I have not changed my opinion, a millimeter that is, in terms of immigration policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u116	Mr Ventura has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u117	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have already had the fault of Passos Coelho, now we have the fault of Cavaco Silva and we will still end the fault of Sá Carneiro, certainly in his governments. I'm going to ask you a very simple question. Mr. Prime Minister is beginning to suffer the influence of another State figure in our Republic. Today we have heard « wait for the answer from the Resolution Fund », « wait for the answer from the Attorney-General's Office », « wait for the audit »... Mr. Prime Minister, answer only very simply: are you prepared to put more money in the New Bank if Parliament does not authorize it? It is a 'yes' or 'no' answer. Yes or no? Are you or are you not willing to put money in the New Bank if Parliament does not allow it? Second question: the Minister of Internal Administration, who is here with us today. A disastrous intervention in Odemira, reversed by the Supreme Court ; the disastrous management of the case of the SEF and the extinction of the only police force that was investigating an illegal immigration network, precisely in Odemira ; the disauthorization of the President of the Republic, who has already asked him to remove the political consequences of this case; the fact that a socialist author... [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] ... request the resignation of your Minister of Internal Administration. Mr Prime Minister, I ask you: will you or will you not keep Minister Eduardo Cabrita as Minister of Internal Administration? It is that, and I quote your words, a Prime Minister exists for one thing: to resolve complaints. Mr. Prime Minister at the moment has no greater problem than his Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u118	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u119	Mr President, Mr. André Ventura, I wish my problem was Mr. Minister of Internal Administration! That would mean I had no problem, because I have an excellent Minister of Internal Administration and I live very well with Mr. Minister of Internal Administration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, the Constitution is very clear on budgetary powers: the Government will fulfil its powers, as the Assembly of the Republic has exercised its powers. And what was decided, and what the Government has committed, in the parliamentary debate, is that there will not be a state loan to the Resolution Fund this year. But I said something else and I will always say it: Portugal is a rule of law and, while I am Prime Minister, the state will fulfill the contracts, cost whatever it costs, whether or not popular, because governing is not a competition of popularity, it is an exercise of responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u120	Mr Ventura still has time, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u121	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if you noticed how few Members have hit palms, when you said that the Minister of Internal Administration is an excellent Minister, you should withdraw political consequences from it itself. [[Prime Minister's laughs, Antonio Costa.]] Mr Prime Minister, without wanting to go into cases after cases, one of his State Secretarys said that the programme Friday at 9 is'strume' and a'squeaky thing'. If it had been André Ventura, Mother of Heaven! He was everywhere! I ask you, Mr Prime Minister, who has attacked me so many times because I am supposed to be against some freedom of expression, how can you maintain a state secretary who says'strume' and'squeous thing' of a television programme and a journalist from RTP ( Radio and Television from Portugal )? How can you keep it, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u122	And why is he still sitting there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u123	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer, if you want.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u124	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State João Galamba has already withdrawn, himself, the consequences for having been obviously considered inappropriate the way in which he expressed himself on this programme. The Minister for the Environment has already had the opportunity to say. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] In fact, neither can I say anything but, of course, that it is not a proper expression and that government members must have particular steel nerves to hear even the most unpleasant things that are available. You have to be able to carry out your duties. That's what I do. I roll a little more nails, but it's life, it has to be! But let me rest, Mr, because no one has any doubt that you would never say that about Friday at 9 p.m.. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u125	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, would not even touch the New Bank business, but I don't want to be the only one who won't. So I'm going to ask a question that I think is slightly different, because, this morning, I already detected, at the hearing of the Court of Auditors, the emergence of a narrative of those typical PS deresponsibility and I want to see if I can limit it, at least a little, to birth. The New Bank sales agreement was concluded in March 2017. The sale was completed in October 2017. They are two dates from their first government. We call it « Costa I ». If, until the end of the Costa II government — and lastly, I hope — prove that the content of the contract, its application or its verification have led to damage to the public record, whose responsibility will it be?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u127	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u128	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, I think it is necessary to better implement the question so that I can try to identify the causal link between the injury and the author in order to establish responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u129	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u130	Mr President, I can explain, but I ask you not to discount in my speaking time, because the question is clear. If the content of the contract, its execution or its follow-up leads to damage on the public record, to spend more than necessary, to invest more than the New Bank's capital than necessary, without producing the expected and expected results of that contract, whose responsibility is? Today morning I heard here in this House that the responsibility, even to the resolution, was of the previous government and, after the resolution, it was of the consultants who were with the Banco de Portugal, not of the governments and ministers who were in office at that time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u131	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u132	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, I am sure you know the details and circumstances of the New Bank. The Government's concern about the sale contract by the Resolution Fund was to ensure precisely a limitation of the risks to the public record. This limitation of risks was essentially based on three facts: the first was to prevent the bank's liquidation; the second was to avoid solutions such as those which some Members, for example the Left Block and the CFP, defended, such as that of the bank's nationalisation, which I believe would fully incorporate into the State, such as the risks to the taxpayers themselves associated with that bank; finally, to limit the ceiling by placing a quota capital ceiling. These were the concerns we had. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u133	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u134	Mr. President, I request 19 seconds of tolerance, please. We will see how this situation will evolve with regard to the New Bank. I have here a curriculum note by Minister Eduardo Cabrito : when the MAI (Ministry of Internal Administration) bought anti-smokers, which were flammable, the minister remained; when months remained to assume responsibility in the case of Ihor Homeniuk, the minister remained ; when the contract with the SIRESP came to an end without renegotiation, the blame was for the Altice, but the minister remained ; when there were endless rows in the pre-presidential vote not only the minister was as the party of democracy ; to solve the health situation of Odemira – we have already talked about it – the minister remains ; yesterday there was the title party of Sporting, there was absolutely no plan and here the minister is still here. Therefore, a minister who is incompetent, who is bad in decisions and is worse in justifications, remains. Why? Oh, my God! They say it's because he walked with you to school. [[Prime Minister's laughs, Antonio Costa.]] It is time to know, Prime Minister, who has been with you in school, that this Parliament should know who is unreputable in this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u135	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u136	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, Mr Telmo Correia, in fact also walked with me at least in college. I am not able to reconstitute the list of all my old school colleagues, since primary school, since pre-school, who I did in the Luso-Switzerland childhood garden, until I graduated from the Catholic University. It's been hundreds. Only at law school were a few hundred of us. But there is something unequivocal that we all have become aware of: when Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo is Prime Minister, Minister Eduardo Cabrita will not be a minister. I think he'll be very pleased with that. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u137	The Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, through Mr. João Paulo Correia, has the floor to request clarification from Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the PSD's speech on the New Bank sins by two serious omissions. First of all, Mr Rui Rio has forgotten to recall the large conclusion of the Court of Auditors audit, which says that the sale of the New Bank saved the public interest because it avoided the bank's liquidation, which would have had gross costs for public finances and taxpayers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Rui Rio made a complaint to the Attorney-General of the Republic, who filed this complaint, and then appeared to criticize the Office of the Attorney-General of the Republic itself recently.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u139	No, no! It's a fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u140	Not enough, the PSD felt that it should even proceed with the Court of Auditors'request for audit, so that the Court of Auditors would say that the management of the New Bank and the New Bank's capital calls to the Resolution Fund were in serious error. The audit doesn't say anything about that. So, Mr Rui Rio and the PSD are also downgrading this audit, saying that this audit is not useful, and they are again insisting on a second complaint to the Attorney-General of the Republic. It is an embarrassment to the PSD, as it is also a embarrassment to the PSD and to the CDS do not remember that whoever sold the New Bank was Banco de Portugal. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u141	And who the Banco de Portugal hired to sell the New Bank was Dr. Sérgio Monteiro, former governor of the PSD / CDS coalition, who has been selling the New Bank, hired by Banco de Portugal. Speaking of chickens, putting Dr. Sérgio Monteiro selling the New Bank is the same thing as putting a fox at the door of the chicken. That's a lot of what happened. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We need to speak rigorously and truly when we talk about the sale of the New Bank. What was on the table in 2017? Oh, my God! First, it was the liquidation of the New Bank. Liquidating would mean creating another universe of damage, which would require compensation from the State, plus a fund for the recovery of claims of hundreds of millions of euros, the escalation of public debt interest in hundreds of millions of euros and, of course, would cause a systemic risk, at a time when the General Deposit Box was being recapitalised and in which the BCP and the BPI ( Portuguese Investment Bank) were in restructuring and recapitalisation processes. The liquidation was the worst scenario. The second scenario, as the Block and the PCP defended, was to place the New Bank in the public sphere. In fact, the PSD now, in an idea of repentance, tries to recover a little that this would have been the best solution, but it is not intellectually honest on the PSD to defend that the New Bank should have remained in the public sphere, because the PSD knows what the immediate consequence would be. It is because placing the New Bank in the public sphere represented State aid; State aid obliges the European Commission to intervene and the European Commission would immediately determine a haircut in the bank's assets of more than 50 %, which would require the Portuguese State to inject thousands and thousands of euros in the balance sheet of the General Deposit Box, which would be unbearable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then the Portuguese State was obliged to sell the New Bank in 2017. It's important to say this. And why was it obliged to sell the New Bank in 2017? Oh, my God! Because someone failed to sell the New Bank in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Pedro Passos Coelho, Maria Luís Albuquerque and Carlos Costa, in 2014, on August 3, they promised two things. They promised that the New Bank was a transition bank, which would be sold within two years, and failed. They promised that the New Bank would have no costs for taxpayers, invented this model and failed as well. Therefore, liquidation was no solution and the public sphere was no solution. The sale was the only solution. That is what the Court of Auditors has said.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u142	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u143	He came to say that this sale removed the scenario from a systemic crisis and also removed the scenario of extremely high and gross costs for taxpayers. Who promised a good bank was not the Socialist Party, nor any government of the Socialist Party. The major debtors of the New Bank, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they are the major debtors of BES. Whoever solved BES knew that, he had an obligation to know that. The disease of BES passed to the New Bank and who failed to sell the New Bank was the former Governor of Banco de Portugal and the PSD / CDS coalition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u144	For the government, there is no such thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u145	If they had sold the New Bank in 2015, it would have been no longer a heavy inheritance that the Socialist Party Government received. In addition to the General Deposit Box being in the state in which it was, in addition to Banif being in the state in which it was, it still had to solve the problem of the New Bank. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the management premiums, the PS was the first party to react. He said that the award of management awards by New Bank to its administrators and top managers was immoral. That was the expression we used and did not regret. In fact, let's emphasize: immoral!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u147	More: the New Bank restructuring plan prohibits the allocation of management premiums until the restructuring plan is completed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u149	The Left Block knows that, but recently he forgot to mention it. It preferred to attack the Government to remember that the restructuring plan prohibits the allocation of management premiums. That is why the administration of the New Bank provided the premiums to pay them in the following years: 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025. Now, let's talk about the New Bank's capital calls to the Resolution Fund.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u150	What's the question? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u151	If the Resolution Fund had placed in the New Bank the losses of the problematic assets that come from BES and are in the contingent capital mechanism, it would have placed EUR 3 500 million in the New Bank when it placed EUR 2 900 million. There's an abismal difference. What the Court of Auditors is telling us today is that it has imposed the lower value rule, so it is false when it says that the capital deficit is responsible for the bank's total activity and not only for the quota capital mechanism. Mr Prime Minister, jumping to another subject, today we know the macroeconomic and public finances forecasts of the European Commission for Portugal. It confirms the credibility of our stability programme, as the Government has presented it, with more growth, more employment and better public finances. Our economy will return to pre-pandamy levels in the middle of 2022, considerably from here to one year. And it says something more important: our economy will grow by 2021, by 2022, and by the end of 2022, Portugal will grow above the euro area average, i.e. we will return to convergence with the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u152	In reply, Mr Prime Minister has the floor, which I welcome, as well as the other members of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u153	Madam President, Mr. João Paulo Correia, thank you very much. I must tell you that one of the most embarrassing moments in my life was when I had a conversation with Commissioner Margreth Vestager in the first few weeks of my work, looking for a delay in resolving Banif's problem and finding alternatives to Banif's liquidation. It was a very kind conversation, but I was very surprised when she showed me a letter, which had been sent, after several other letters, by the former Minister of State and Finance, Dr. Maria Luís Albuquerque, who had committed to restructuring Banif until March of the previous year in order to restrict its activity to both autonomous regions and our immigration. If that commitment had been fulfilled, Banif might have had-CL saved himself. Unfortunately, the compromise was not fulfilled and so when we took possession of the day on which we were signing the takeover, Mr. Governor was then informing the European Central Bank that it was necessary to initiate Banif's liquidation process. Those first two years of governance were two years in which we had to face everything that was hidden under the carpet in terms of stability and the effective situation of the financial system. There was a private bank with a dramatic conflict between shareholders that needed to be resolved; there was another private bank with enormous lack of capital, where it was necessary to create conditions to attract foreign direct investment so that this bank would have its solvency again— fortunately, it returned; then, Banif had to settle in a few weeks ; there was the resolution of the New Bank, after having failed the attempt to sell ; and there was still the problem of the General Deposit Box. I can say that we can be proud that in those first two years we have managed to overcome almost all of these problems. of the two private banks, which was in conflict no longer in conflict and today has a stable and solid shareholder structure; the other, which needed a capital injection, today has a solid and promising financial situation and, above all, can pride us on the fact that, contrary to what the right one said, it is possible to maintain a fully-funded 100 % public bank. Thanks to the restructuring programme of the General Deposit Box, approved by the Government, and the management pursued by Dr. Paulo Macedo, the General Deposit Box has recently ceased to be under the supervision of the European Commission, which has closed its restructuring programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Who would have given us that the New Bank had the conditions so that we could have had such a good solution as it was for the General Deposit Box. It was not by chance that the New Bank was not sold in 2015. It was not by chance that as early as December 2015 the Banco de Portugal made some changes regarding the obligations and the hierarchy of credits of international creditors, which brutally affected the international reputation of the Portuguese State and made it even more difficult for us to withdraw the New Bank. In fact, when we arrived in March 2017, there was no good solution. The solution was that of liquidation, which was very bad. There was also the solution of nationalisation, which meant that all risks relating to the New Bank were imported into the State indefinitely. There was also the possibility of negotiating with the only real interested person, under the conditions which it required for its acquisition, which showed the need to see certain risks with respect to credits and assets whose quality raised doubts. Unfortunately, these years have shown that the doubts about the quality of these assets were right to be and that in fact those assets were not exactly what the accounts seemed to show it was. It's a sad story. It is a very sad story, which always reminds me of that phrase that I have already said here and that I have learned from Professor Jorge Leite : « It is very difficult to straighten the shadow of a cake stick». The rod was crooked and the shadow was difficult to straighten. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we tried to do was to ensure that the bank did not fall within the risk of liquidation, that there were no systemic risks, that there was no destabilization of the financial system, which, as the Court of Auditors audit report acknowledges, guarantees the safeguarding of the public interest in that measure. We have therefore sought to safeguard it by placing a maximum risk of responsibility. That is what insurance companies do, when they grant insurance, that is to fix what is the maximum of their responsibility. We have limited the maximum of responsibility to EUR 3, EUR 9 billion. Moreover, we made sure that this responsibility was assumed by the Resolution Fund and that the Resolution Fund was financed under conditions that did not call into question the sustainability of the banking system as a whole, through contributions that would receive up to 2046. That is why this period for the remuneration of the loan has been established. But it's not a free loan, it's an expensive loan. The State charges interest, has already raised EUR 588 million and many million will have to be charged from here to the final settlement of the loan. When I said that you will not be the contributors to bear, I say and repeat, because the money that the state has been forward today is money that the state will recover tomorrow, and will recover with interest to the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u154	Go, go! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u155	With this, we had some side gains. The gains of the stability of the financial system, the gains of avoiding a systemic risk and the gains that have resulted in a very significant fall in our interest rate in the Republic, and this has saved the State many billions of euros over these years, taking into account the very high amount of our public debt and how important it is for us to maintain low interest rates. We cannot risk losing our international credibility again. We must therefore maintain prudent financial management, while rejecting austerity and taking the necessary measures to support our economy. Today, in the spring forecasts, the European Commission recognises that the measures taken by the Government have been decisive for the maintenance of employment and income of Portuguese families, in the face of this dramatic crisis that we are living in associated with COVID. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u156	I now give the floor to Mrs Telma Guerreiro of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u157	Mr President, Prime Minister, there are two characteristics that make the difference in political leadership: the ability to be empathic and the ability to face problems. That's what Mr. Prime Minister did yesterday. It revealed a lot of empathy for the people of Odemira, going to have them at a difficult time,... [[Oh, that's beautiful.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u158	... being fair, at the right time, with the lifting of the sanitary fence, ensuring that, in terms of public health, authorities and government always did their best to ensure that the situation had evolved favourably as quickly as possible. Second, the ability to face problems. The political consequences, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they must be understood, as has already been said, with action, with answers and with guarantees for the future. That's also what Mr. Prime Minister went to Odemira yesterday.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u159	That's nice.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u160	The government is being a government when it immediately seeks to bring hope to that territory and to all the people who live and work there. The decisions taken in Odemira guarantee the conditions for seasonal workers and the local population with housing weaknesses, so that they can have access to decent housing, which clearly reveals the priorities that the Government and the Socialists give to human rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u161	Oh, that was very exposed!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u162	The gentlemen. Members were not on the ground when we lived in this sanitary area, they were not on the ground when we used all the capacity to solve all the problems as quickly as possible. All the technicians, all the different local organizations, went to the ground. And whoever's been there too, we have to be fair, that's Minister Eduardo Cabrita. We have to recognize! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group recognises its action very well. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u163	He's incompetent!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u164	For the opposition, Odemira is a struggle against the government. I repeat, for the opposition, Odemira is a fight against the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For the Socialist Party, Odemira is a struggle for people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What Odemira needs, Prime Minister, is that yesterday's commitments are everyone's commitments — government, autoarchs, businesses, local associations, political parties, citizens and citizens. What Odemira needs is that, after these holofotes, it will not be forgotten by anyone, what is done today and what has to continue to be done tomorrow and in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u165	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u166	I shall conclude, Madam President. So, Prime Minister, I ask: how can we ensure that the situation in Odemira is an opportunity not only for Odemira but for the country? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u167	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, deciding to apply a health care facility is a very difficult decision. We had to do for the first time last year, even before the state of emergency was decreed, regarding the city of Ovar. We have done so in a close connection between Minister Eduardo Cabrita and Mr President of the Ovar Chamber. It was very difficult for the population, it was very difficult for entrepreneurs, it was very difficult for everyone in Ovar, as this time it was difficult to apply the measures to two Fregueses of Odemira to release the other 11, since the incidence rate was clearly concentrated in two frequencies. This intervention had several levels. Of course you have the basic intervention, which is now necessary and which we agreed with concrete means yesterday with concrete commitments to solve the problem of housing, but it was also necessary to solve the problem of emergency. In the emergency problem, it was the Republican National Guard, the local health authority, the ACT, the SEF, who walked from house to house to visit, with the camera, which were the situations of inability and ensuring emergency accommodation. It's very easy to say: "Oh, everybody fits in the youth hostel! Yeah, they don't fit! Many had to come to the Alfeite, but others had to find solutions there, through the civil requirement which, with great honor, I signed, because it was effectively necessary a decision and an emergency solution to ensure prophylactic confinement. That is why, thanks to these measures and the effort and sacrifice of the population of Odemira, there was a possible evolution in what was most important, which was the evolution in the public health situation. It was a great satisfaction for me when the Minister of Health, yesterday morning, sent me the communication of the coordinator health delegate of the Coastal Alentejo, Dr. Joaquin Toro, who came to say that most of the positive results found correspond to the already identified chains, and there was no community transmission at the moment. And because, epidemiologically, if we maintain a decreasing situation of cases, we consider that health care can be raised in the parish of São Teotónio and Longueira-Almograve. It was on the basis of this communication from the local authority that the government understood it was time to raise the health environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u169	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u170	I shall conclude, Madam President. Of course, we called on the Council of E-Ministers so that I could dialogue. We have been careful, which is due us, to inform the President of the Republic of the decision we would take and take that decision. I am glad that since today's zero hours there is no sanitary fence anywhere in the country, particularly, there is no sanitary fence in Odemira. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So let me thank all those who live and work in Odemira for the sacrifice they have had over these weeks so that we can, too, regain control of our public health situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u171	We've reached the end of the first round, so we're going to move on to the second round. To put questions, Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u172	Mr President, Prime Minister, I want to go back to the topic of vaccines to ask you two questions: one has to do with suspension and cancellation of patents and the other has to do with the national capacity to produce vaccines. Yesterday, the Minister for Foreign Affairs had the opportunity to respond to the CFP, saying that Portugal's position in the WHO on patents will be determined on the basis of the position to be articulated in the European Union. It does not seem to us that it is a great option to subject our national position to which it is agreed in the European Union, but in particular we want to know what Portugal will defend in the various multilateral organisations to which it belongs. Will Portugal agree with the suspension and cancellation of patents or will it take an antagonistic position on this? The second question is directly related to this because it serves us little if there is a patent suspension if there is no ability to produce vaccines in Portugal. Therefore, our question is to know what measures the Government has already taken, or is going to take, to ensure that Portugal has this national production capacity that it does not have today. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u173	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u174	Mr President, Mr João Oliveira, I thank and greet you, especially today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u175	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u176	I would like to tell you this: you have finally put the problem right. The issue of patents only arises when there is a qualified entity capable of producing an essential good that is prevented from producing because the patent holder does not allow it to do so. Unfortunately, that is not the situation in the world. The situation in the world today is the dramatic reality that there is no productive capacity installed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u177	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u178	What is currently being done at European Union level, under the direction of Commissioner Thierry Breton, is precisely to set up a project within the framework of the ERA (European Research Area ), in which the various industrial capacities identified in each country are sought to articulate in order to increase the production capacity of vaccines. currently, for the vaccines already licensed, Portugal has been identified as being able to contribute to a phase of this process — the filling phase. But this is not the critical phase; the critical phase has to do with the production of the active principle and the existence of reactors for this active principle. This process is highly complex, particularly in mRNA vaccines, and has therefore been difficult to overcome. This is where we need to concentrate our efforts. I do not hide — not with regard to these vaccines that exist, but with respect to other vaccines — that there are developing projects and to be worked with the support of AICEP (Agence for Investment and Foreign Trade in Portugal ), or for the installation, which is already public, of a factory producing vaccines in Coura Walls, with the investment of a company that usually works in Galicia and is developing its productive capacity in a certain type of vaccine, or with Portuguese companies that have developed basic technology and that seek, in fact, a partner to be able to scale from the fundamental phase of knowledge to the phase of industrial production on a large scale. Therefore, there are ongoing projects, but none of them is completed and none is dependent on the lifting of any kind of patents. When one day someone appears to me saying that he has the capacity to produce vaccines and that a company, holder of a patent, refuses to grant the patent, immediately we will use the mechanisms that are, in fact, provided for in the Industrial Property Code to force the obtaining of the compulsory licence. Unfortunately, that is not the reality in Portugal and, even more so in the other countries of Europe. For this reason, the European Union did not follow an idea that was already known to be inconsequential and that, perhaps, some say - I don't know if it is right - above all aims to divert attention from a fundamental point. With the exception of China and Russia, only the European Union has exported vaccines and raw material for the production of vaccines, while other countries, which have very generous ideas, such as patenting, do not do anything absolutely essential, practical and useful immediately, i.e. export some of the vaccines that produce and release also the export of the raw material needed for others to produce and to increase their production of vaccines. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u179	Again you have the floor, Mr João Oliveira, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u180	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, said that the issue was finally well raised, but only by disregard is that this can be said to the CFP. On 8 April, the CFP brought to the Assembly of the Republic a proposal containing three elements: diversification of the purchase of vaccines, suspension of patents and creation of capacity to produce national vaccines. The question was therefore not « finally » well posed by the CFP, since 8 April the Assembly of the Republic was confronted with a proposal from the CFP, which was unfortunately cast with the votes of the majority of the Members, including the PS Members. Mr. Prime Minister, we have been discussing this issue for a long time. In fact, this initiative that we have brought here has already been the culmination of a work of discussion, preparation and intervention on the issue of vaccination, which we have come to do and which has allowed us to make the same proposal. If we do not take quick steps to ensure this capacity for industrial production, we will always remain hostages of others who have the capacity to produce vaccines. We objectively have to put this issue as one of the priorities, which does not mean that the issue of patent discussion can only arise from the moment we have industrial production capacity. We are not exactly resting on the altruistic motivation that can come from the US administration on the issue of patents, because we know that this is not altruism. We know that Portugal and the Portuguese Government have an obligation to take advantage of all the elements that, from an international point of view, can converge in the sense of suspension and the possibility of cancelling the patents for the national production of vaccines under conditions that enable them to respond to the real issue of this problem of the epidemic. Mr. Prime Minister, still in the field of health, wanted to ask you other questions. The first, also referring to a response that has already given to the PCP today, is in the sense of knowing whether nurses who were temporarily hired to strengthen the National Health Service, during the most acute moments of the epidemic, will or will not all be hired permanently by the SNS. It is that the vacancies that the government opened today are 1366 when there are 2332 temporary nurses, that is, there are 966 nurses who do not have coverage in the vacancies created today. The second question has to do with the investments envisaged in the State budget for the area of health. How many health centres have already had investments in buildings and the installation of X-ray equipment provided for in the 150 million investment of Article 276. The State Budget? How many health professionals have already been mobilized to recover late health care in health centres, including their opening on Saturdays and the strengthening of technological means, as provided for in Article 277. The Budget? What about the investments in hospitals that are identified in the Budget? What is the situation of the hospitals of Póvoa de Varzim and Vila do Conde, Setúbal, da Guarda, do Seixal or the IPO (English Institute of Oncology) of Lisbon? Six months have passed since Prime Minister Évora announced the Central Hospital of Alentejo and the hospital has not left the drawer because the ARS (Regional Health Administration) continues to draw the start of the construction, although the Court of Auditors has waived the previous visa, and to bring discussions on environmental impact assessments that had already been released. Mr. Prime Minister, six months have passed since Évora made the announcement of the hospital and we have ARS Alentejo boycotting the start of the construction of the Central Hospital of Alentejo! The government must take responsibility and explain this. Finally, how are we dealing with the hiring of 935 family doctors in the two stages of recruitment provided for in Article 278. The Budget? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u181	To reply to Mr. João Oliveira, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u182	Mr President, honourable Member, rather than fulfilling the commitments contained in the State Budget for 2021, which we honour, we have worked to respect them and, above all, interests the Government and the Ministry of Health to strengthen the National Health Service. What corresponds to the order that was published today, in the Diário da República, is more than honoring a numerical commitment, is the responsibility for what we assume to be a vision for the National Health Service and for public health in Portugal. So today, we assume that, in addition to continuing to strengthen the human resources of the National Health Service — I would like to stress that only this year have been translated into 3446 contracts and last year 9193 contracts — where these human resources correspond to the permanent needs of the institutions, and in addition to the temporary needs to respond to the care needs arising from the COVID-19, there will be a stabilization in employment. That is why we started this process last year and I fear it will continue. We now have a broad set of job identification by the institutions and solidification of these same jobs. It is a complex process, which requires institutional work to the institution, but we will fulfill it and we will respect it. I'd also like to tell the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, this House that we have today identified the medical vacancies lacking. Therefore, article the article, the work of the Ministry of Health and the Government, in order to meet the commitments made, but, above all, in order to strengthen the National Health Service has been done. In terms of investment, this process has also been carried out. Obviously, the approval of the Recovery and Resilience Plan will bring another breath to which we aim in terms of primary health care reform, in terms of hospital reform and the realization of new hospitals. Regarding the hospital in Évora, one of the hospitals that underlined, let me tell you that we tell you that the yard is installed before the end of 1. this year's semester and so the hospital in Évora can leave the paper. We hope that, like this one, everyone else will be able to leave the paper, because this has been what we have done, no matter how difficult it may be, to line up the line in each of the matters on which we have agreed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u183	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u184	That is what we will continue to do until the end of the time when we will continue to perform these functions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u185	Mr João Oliveira has the floor again. The government will no longer have time to respond, but it will certainly answer on another occasion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u186	Madam President, Minister, record the answer you gave us. I hope that then, in particular, on the issues I have raised and on the issues I have identified, with regard to the rules of the State budget, the information may be more detailed. Mrs Minister, he proposed that we should have this debate on the strengthening of the SNS really based on the practice of the concrete measures that are taken and on the specific conditions that the National Health Service has to, in fact, be strengthened. We are aware of the offensive that is being developed by private economic groups in the area of health, precisely to weaken the National Health Service and to increase profits with the disease business. We know that this offensive against the right to health that all Portuguese have can only successfully stop, with the concrete strengthening of the National Health Service and with the response capacity to be given. To conclude, Mrs Minister, these two issues that have been raised, particularly with regard to job stabilization, listen to the demands that nurses have brought to the streets today in the fight they are developing! Listen, in particular, to the examples that are given from situations of health professionals, particularly nurses, who, being necessary to the National Health Service, have no response from the point of view of their employment link and their link to the National Health Service! This is perhaps one of the nodal aspects of the strengthening response of the National Health Service that has to be ensured.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u187	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u188	Madam President, I will conclude. Mr. Minister, on this issue of the Central Hospital of Alentejo, do you know what our problem is? Six in six months, the process is delaying, delaying, delaying. We already realize that this only progresses every time the PCP presses, because we're here to squeeze until the hospital is built. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u189	To put questions, Mr José Luís Carneiro, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u190	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would first of all like to make a preventive warning on what constitutes a guerilla tactic of right-wing oppositions with regard to the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. When the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union began, we had the case of the European Prosecutor. [[PSD protests.]] Now, at the Social Summit in Porto, we had the instrumentalization of Odemira's case to seek to devalue the important social agreement that the government was achieving. But it is still curious and it is important to underline the silence of the oppositions on the right as to the victories that the Prime Minister and the Portuguese Government have achieved in this Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, the Port Social Summit deserves to be underlined because it opens a new perspective on the European social contract and also opens a new strategic vision on Europe in relation to the world, particularly with regard to the relationship with India. I know that the fight against pandemics, the vaccination campaign, the protection of labour incomes and the protection of corporate incomes are the essence of the Government's effort, but we would not be well aware if at such an important moment in the future of the European project we were not able to emphasize the importance of the Social Summit of the Port and the importance of the trade agreement that was established with India in the place and heart of representative democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is certainly important, Prime Minister, to assess the strategic dimension of what happened in the European Union's relationship with India. For us, Portuguese, who for centuries have pursued the goal of reaching the sea road to India and who have deep relations in the historical, cultural, social and institutional planes with India, it is very important to stress that it is by the hand of Portugal that again India and Europe meet to define their strategic future. However, we do not have the time to assess the effects and strategic importance of this agreement here. I therefore wanted to focus on the Social Summit and the pillar of fundamental social rights. Why? Because from our point of view the agreement that was signed, with the prime minister and the members of the Government of Portugal as first responsible, opens up a new perspective of the European Union with regard to the challenges for digital transition and climate transition, which is entirely comparable to what happened in 1992 with the Treaty on European Union and, before it, with the Single European Act, which brought economic and social cohesion as a global and strategic objective for the European Union. With the same principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and the method of coordination, partnership and governance at various levels, the same strategic objective has been established: to bring these principles to the fundamental challenges of the European Union and to incorporate them as an objective of each Member State, ensuring that the European Union is committed to social protection and employment protection. I ask you therefore, Prime Minister — before the opposition seeks again, tactically, to empty out the strategic scope of what has been achieved — as the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union hopes to implement these objectives by 2030. I also ask how the assessment and monitoring of the fulfilment of these same results are expected, so that the right will not say this important and strategic agreement as I said in relation to the Lisbon summit in 2000 and the Lisbon Treaty in 2007. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u191	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u192	Madam President, Mr José Luís Carneiro, thank you very much for your questions. We are still far from the end of the Portuguese Presidency and we still have a lot to work on, but we have arrived this weekend with some important marks, then indeed an intense PSD campaign against the government and the Conference on the Future of Europe. The fact is that this Presidency has stepped up by unlocking the institutional agreement that allowed the Conference on the Future of Europe to be officially opened last Sunday, giving citizens a voice to express what they want Europe to work for citizens and citizens over the coming decades. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Minister for the Environment and Climate Action has reached a very important and historic agreement with the European Parliament to be the first regional institution to have a continental climate law, with the aim of achieving a reduction by 55 % of CO2 emissions by 2030. It is also very important to underline all the work done — a very laborious job! — by the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs and by the Secretary of State for European Affairs on the whole regulatory framework, which is already approved, on the recovery and resilience plan and on the next multiannual financial framework, which is absolutely crucial for us to meet the first priority of our Presidency, the economic revival of Europe. at this time, 14 countries have already presented their national plans, we expect that in the ECOFIN of 18 June or in an extraordinary ECOFIN, even during our Presidency, a significant first number of national plans will be approved and we are almost achieving unanimity from the Member States, which have already ratified the decision of the increase in own resources by the European Union. The relationship with India was of the greatest geostrategic importance. And Europe has to find partners in the world—we cannot let the world have a new bipolarization between the United States and China—as in the African continent and Latin America, surely, although India is the largest democracy in the world and a fundamental partner throughout the Indo-Pacific region. The trade treaty negotiations had been paralyzed since 2013 and there had been no institutional meetings since 2018. during a full year of work, it was possible to unlock the institutional summits and to hold, for the first time, even though at a distance, a meeting with the Prime Minister of India, the Presidents of the European Commission, the European Council and the rotating presidency and the 27 European leaders, at a summit that took fundamental decisions, from the very beginning of the reopening of the negotiations of the trade agreement, the investment protection agreement and the agreement for the recognition of geographical indications. It was therefore a milestone of the greatest importance. Surely the most revealing fact was our Presidency's second priority: putting social policies at the heart of European policies. We then achieved a historic fact, because for the first time there was a tripartite agreement, which brought together trade unions, employers' representative associations, the European Commission and the European Parliament in the support and commitment to the implementation of the action plan for the realization of the European pillar of social rights. It was a very great work done by our former Minister Vieira da Silva, who, as a consultant to the Commissioner for Social Affairs and on the bridge with the Presidency, achieved this agreement, a milestone of the greatest importance in providing political support to the implementation of this social pillar. The Port declaration, adopted by the Heads of State and Government, is unequivocal in supporting this programme. This action plan has two decisive developments which Mr. Deputies stressed here: firstly, it has quantified targets in three key areas, including employment, vocational training and combating poverty; secondly, it has a panel of indicators that are integrated into the exercise of the European Semester. And economic and financial ministers, when they meet, will no longer look only at debt, deficit or GDP growth (gross domestic product), will look at the employment rate, poverty reduction and the level of access to human resources training and qualification, and that is absolutely crucial. And it is all the more decisive when Europe decides that the major drivers of economic recovery are climate change and digital transition. We know that these transitions are fundamental and open huge opportunities for creating more and better jobs, but we also know that they create problems, even recently Mr Jerónimo de Sousa mentioned the situation of the Galp refinery in Matosinhos, but we could also refer the situation of the two plants to coal that we will close this year. It is therefore essential to ensure that there are conditions for everyone to have the opportunity to participate in this transition through training, retraining, transition from employment to employment and social protection, so that no one is left on their own or left behind. So I think that Portugal, with this presidency, has left a fundamental mark: this recovery will be green, it will be digital, but above all it will be fair, ensuring shared prosperity for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u193	On behalf of the PS, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u194	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the country has seen, from the beginning of the pandemic, the importance of a strong social state and, above all, of a government that values and dignifies it, acting as a community in which the problems of one are necessarily the problems of all. The pandemic has proved to the most skeptical that only a strong social state is able to respond to the needs that a crisis with these dimensions causes and that is why, to those who defend a minimal state, socialists respond with a state of maximum social welfare for all. The social state showed its strength in the enormous difficulties we have experienced with the pandemic, but the social state would not have responded as it replied if we did not have a government that refused, as this refused, the path of austerity to respond to the crisis we live in. On the contrary, we were able to face the pandemic and fight the economic and social crisis, because since the end of 2015 we have shown that an alternative path was possible to which the right has followed in the country and, with that path — increasing incomes, lowering taxes, improving accounts, returning confidence to the economy — we have led a formula of success for fiscal, economic and social policy. This was particularly evident in social security. The social security budget for this year has an increase of EUR 2000 million compared to the initial budget for 2020, but in order to have a real perception of the achievements of the social protection of PS government, we need to make a comparison with 2015. There we can see an allocation that has grown EUR 5, EUR 2 billion in social security, so that it will respond to the needs of the present and never be at risk for future generations. The governance of the PS has also been decisive for a turning point in European policy, showing that we do not need austerity to achieve good results in the economy and in employment. Portugal recovered the European respectability it did not have during the years when Portugal's European thinking was reduced to obedience to the strongest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why today, the Prime Minister, António Costa, is one of the most respected leaders in Europe and has achieved a historic agreement — the Social Commitment of the Port — that includes the social pillar as a fundamental element of recovery and, I would say, of the heart of the European project. All of this translates into effective gains for the Portuguese, who know the difference between our response to the crisis and the response that the right has given in the past to combat other crises. In fact, the opposition, still today, continues to insist on the same mistakes, attacking the State budget that we approved for this year and which has responded to the country's emergencies. At the time, they said we were giving everything to everyone without ever telling what they took in concrete to each Portuguese, where they cut or tax increased. But they also resigned, it is good to remember, to participate in the great debate for the reconstruction of the national economy after the pandemic, because when the government here brought the debate the Recovery and Resilience Plan, the only contribution we heard from the largest opposition party was a criticism of the increase in the national minimum wage, which thanks to the PS increased 32 % since 2015 and will increase 49 % until the end of this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All of this reflects an alternative political vision and this vision represents concrete improvements in the lives of Portuguese people. Over a year has been paid in support of more than EUR 3762 million, not forgetting exemptions and tax exemptions, covered 2, 8 million people and 172 000 companies and one in four Portuguese workers has benefited from measures to combat the crisis. Without this support, according to the model of the European Commission, unemployment in Portugal would have been 20 times higher. Repeat, 20 times higher! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This has enabled Portugal to maintain unemployment at very close levels of pre-crisis values, thanks mainly to layoff, thus allowing the unemployment rate to fall to 6 % and to fall to the lowest level in 10 months. But this is also what protected income by increasing the average wage in Portugal by 2020 while in the European Union it fell by 2 %. And, by the 4th. the quarter of 2020, according to INE data, for the same period of 2019, wages accelerated 3, 5 % per job. This is the way that demonstrates the alternative that we have come to affirm in the country and that is the path that we will continue to pursue, assuming the balance between economic recovery and social protection. I end by asking the Prime Minister about his perception on these matters, understanding the social state as our greatest weapon in combating the pandemic, but also with this view that the protection of employment and incomes has resulted from the policies that we have implemented and that these were fundamental, especially so that, from now on, with the end of the pandemic, we can quickly advance as a country, leaving no one behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u195	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u196	Mr President, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, there has indeed been a response to this crisis which is very different from the response to the previous crises. Some had the illusion that we would respond to this crisis with austerity, so that they would have the opportunity to say: "There is the PS government doing the right policy. » They have been deceived and will continue to be deceived. [[P.S.'s applause.]] From 2015 onwards, we demonstrated that economic recovery is done not with austerity but by combating austerity. This is fundamental to the trust of economic agents, it is essential to sustain the income of families, it is essential to support employment. The key to stability and the economic situation we have achieved was our ability to keep a job. This is clearly recognised by the European Union. If we look at the charts, we realize that after the brutality of this crisis, we have evolved from an unemployment rate of 6 %, 5 %, in 2019, to an unemployment rate that is now estimated to be 6 %, 8 % or 6 %, 9 %, hence the importance of the set of measures we have taken to protect employment. It was a year that remembered the increase in expenditure investment with social security. And the difference is this: last year was not the year of the increase in taxes, it was not the year of the cut-off of pensions, it was not the year of the cut-off of social benefits, it was the year in which 12 % increased expenditure on social security, to support the income and employment of families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Is the country okay? Are the families okay? Are the companies okay? [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u197	Of course not! We are facing a dramatic economic crisis and a dramatic social crisis. But there is no doubt that if we were to respond to this crisis we had followed the policy that the right has followed, the situation today would be much worse than what is happening. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was thanks to the measures we have taken today that we are looking at the possibility of recovering the level of economic growth that we had in 2019 already next year. I know that Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo is always very angry when I say this, but I am going to say: 2020 is the year that will remain for history due to the COVID-19, but it is also the year that will remain for history as the year of the historical defeat of liberal thought in the face of the defense of the social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, it was the year in which the National Health Service, the public school and social security responded to the effective needs of families, businesses and all those who needed support to overcome this crisis in a supportive way. And so we will, in solidarity, continue to overcome this crisis! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u198	So now that the Liberals had dropped their leaf shirts!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u199	On behalf of the PSD, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, as you have just acknowledged, the COVID-19 pandemic is in fact giving rise to a social pandemic. We have an economy in intensive care that is not only generating inevitable unemployment, that is, not just people losing jobs, but jobs are being destroyed. With unemployment there is poverty, so often shamed: there are whole families who were middle class, who have never lived with difficulties and who today do not know how they will honor their commitments, how they will feed their children. The demand for support from food banks is growing and social organisations are increasingly asking for help, either to ensure support for children or to ensure the follow-up of the elderly and dependents. Having the economy in intensive care generates the fear of people, the fear of each person: fear of losing the job, fear of not getting a job again, fear of not being able to ensure that your family has what it needs, fear of an uncertain future. Mr. Prime Minister, it has been, in fact, very hard months. We have lost, for COVID-19 and for other diseases, thousands of Portuguese, people who should be among us. There are families that have lost their grandfather, their grandmother, sometimes even the two, their uncles, their parents, their mothers. We all lose someone in this war, a war that has not yet ended and that also has brutal consequences for each one's mental health. It is clear that health professionals are exhausted, but not only: more professionals are in similar situations. Let us think of security forces, logistics operators, train drivers, bus drivers, supermarket officials, and so many others, women and men, from north to south, who kept this country working, who did not lower their arms, but are inevitably exhausted. There are also those who suffer in a less visible way. It is the case of every Portuguese, of every citizen who has been forced to stay confined for months, often without conditions for that; or the case of each child, especially the younger ones, some of whom have never seen the teacher's face, for having always been masked; or, still, the case of young teenagers who, being at the age of flying, are seen as prisoners at home, without being able to be with friends, without being able to date, without being able to know the world. The consequences for the well-being and mental health of all are gross and, to some extent, unpredictable. As a country, we have to do more than we are doing, we have to do more than react. Mr. Prime Minister, we must act urgently to remove the economy from intensive care and protect people who are more vulnerable, more fragile and living in fear of tomorrow. We have to save the country! For this, pragmatically and assertively, everything that is within our reach must be done to save the summer and prepare the winter. You need to save the summer and prepare the winter! Saving the summer and preparing the winter goes by speeding up vaccination as soon as possible. Today, the country trusts the logistics leadership guaranteed by the Armed Forces, which must continue to have as much arsenal as possible and necessary to complete its mission. Saving the summer and preparing the winter comes by ensuring that companies can re-open in full and benefit from tourism. But we are from the countries of the European Union with more companies at risk of bankruptcy. So saving the summer and preparing the winter also means ensuring that companies have the liquidity they need to adapt to this new pandemic and post-pandemic world, to pay the debts and open the doors. Saving the summer and preparing the winter also means allowing companies to pay later the obligations they have today, which includes obligations to the state. Saving the summer and preparing the winter goes by the government to pay businesses in time and time, moving forward money, if possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u202	Saving the summer and preparing the winter comes by ensuring that companies and families can benefit, if they need, from the loan moratoriums, so that we don't lie to the ground who haven't even been able to get up. Saving the summer and preparing the winter goes by ensuring the safety conditions of the citizens, which includes tourists, then ensuring that public transport has more opportunities for people to meet and maintain the recommended physical distance, which, unfortunately, is not happening in many contexts. So saving the summer and preparing the winter is due to more buses, more trains, more boats. We must learn from past mistakes and do better in offering public transport. Saving the summer and preparing the winter comes by ensuring that mass events can occur in security conditions. at a time when restaurants are forced to close before 11 o'clock at night, where they prohibit concerts, where they keep fun parks and discotheques closed, it is not acceptable that no government has properly prepared the foreseeable football parties. It just can't happen! [[Protests from the PCP and from Members of the Socialist Party.]] Saving the summer and preparing the winter comes by ensuring effective testing and tracking. If, at the moment, the COVID-19 numbers are favorable, we know that autumn and winter pose risks. The next summer months should serve to prepare for the next fall-winter, so that nothing is missing, so that Portugal will not be caught in false again. We all hope that the vaccine will work fully, but we should not, we can't just bet on the vaccination. Everything must be done to minimize risks. Therefore, saving the summer and preparing the winter is now to ensure that, in September, contrary to what happened last year, we will have the influenza vaccines necessary for all Portuguese who want to vaccinate. Saving the summer and preparing the winter goes by doing what so many countries are already doing: forcing the European Union to buy the expected reinforcements needed against COVID-19 by the year 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u203	This has already been announced!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u204	Saving the summer and preparing the winter goes by helping our brothers and sisters, the Portuguese-speaking African countries, as well as Timor-Leste. We use health diplomacy to ensure that all our brothers and sisters have access to the vaccine, launching humanitarian missions with Portuguese citizens to support mass vaccination if necessary. We will only be sure when everyone is safe, as Mr. Prime Minister has said so many times. Therefore, Prime Minister, I am sure that we are united in this effort to want to save the summer and prepare for the winter, and it is very clear the path that needs to be taken. So I leave the question to you: is your government willing to do everything it takes to save the summer and prepare the winter? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u205	To answer, you have the floor to Ms.Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u206	Madam President, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, saving the summer and preparing the winter means, above all, being ant and working every day. Regarding the Ministry of Health, this is what workers who are health professionals usually do. So we have to work every day to save not only the summer but also the winter and all the seasons of the year, to give better living conditions to all Portuguese and to ensure that the country can continue beyond the terrible pandemic that has fallen on us. That is why, without demagogy, we began to prepare: a process of strengthening intensive care, which, today, already involves a wide range of intensive care units that have seen their expanded capacity and so many others that are still completing their expansion process; a process of acquisition of equipment, of the most diverse, that passes through the duplication of the number of fans available to the country; a process of strengthening and training of human resources in terms of nurses, in terms of doctors, in terms of operational assistants and technical assistants, which passes through various contracts and their perenniality in terms of working bonds. That is why we have also chosen, since the beginning of the pandemic, to strengthen the laboratory capacity of the National Health Service. A reinforcement that resulted in a specific line of funding for the sustainability programme and led to our investment of more than EUR 8 million only in the resilience of SNS's laboratory capacity. Almost this value has already been performed by most laboratories in our hospitals, which already have more complete responses to SARS-CoV-2, but also to other activities. A reinforcement that passed from an average daily test volume of 2500 to more than 38 000, or even in January, 52 000. A strengthening of the capacity that has also responded to seasonal influenza vaccination, which, last year, once again happened, with a reinforcement of 600 000 doses of vaccines, more than 40% of quantities, and which, this year, we are also preparing again. A reinforcement of our work that has involved the other answers, because health does not run out in the response to COVID, there have been many other areas to continue developing. I have done so by fulfilling our Government Programme, particularly by strengthening primary health care. And that is what we did when, this month, we approved the creation of more than 20 USF A (family health units model A) and more 20 USF B ( family health units model B ), another step on the path of universalization of the model of family health unit in response to primary health care. And we continued to do so, day by day, in primary health care, in hospital care, and not only. I would like to point out that, in a particularly difficult period, the National Health Service, in the first quarter of 2021, increased its medical consultations in primary health care by 1 to 5 million. It is a fairly demonstrative number of what is the capacity of the Service and its response, a response that is not exhausted in medical consultations, because also in the area of nursing consultations, as well as in the area of consultations of other health technicians, this response capacity has increased. But it was also a strengthening of responses in other areas, particularly in the hospital area, which led to the fact that in March 2021 we had already exceeded, in hospital consultations, the results obtained during the same period of the past year. It is true that, in surgeries, we still have a recovery work to perform, but we are confident of those who are the mechanisms of additional production for the recovery of the activity, so that professionals who have already done more than 24 000 surgeries and more than 79 000 hospital consultations, under this program, continue to respond, because we do not underestimate the use of other areas of care activities of the Portuguese health system, but do not give up on what is the capacity that the National Health Service has. Therefore, we have insisted on strengthening health professionals, also dedicating them to areas such as screening and oncology. Although we are once again in a particularly difficult quadrometer, it has already been possible to implement screenings of breast cancer, colorectal cancer and cervical cancer in several functional units in the country, and in some health regions we have already succeeded in supplanting the results achieved in the same period of the past year. There's a lot to do, right? And there is much to do, above all, in what is the stimulus to the European Health Union, a dossier that we have not stopped following, because we are aware that this path of strengthening and resilience to health in European terms is certainly a path to the future, a way of confidence in European agencies - whether in the European Medicines Agency be in the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control - a joint shopping path, a path of information sharing, a path where no European citizen is left behind in terms of access to health, and in which public health becomes an effective priority in our daily action in terms of health systems, which, as public systems that are, guarantee not only the healing component but also the entire component of prevention and investment in improving living conditions. And it is with all this work done and with the expectation of much more work to be done that we see with serenity what we have in front of us, because it is a lot — we do not know how many summers, how many autumns or even how many winters it will be. Therefore, with this serenity, it is important to say that there is still much to know about what the pandemic can bring us in terms of surprises. But we continue to make our way, a path that has in vaccination your best weapon. It is with satisfaction that we can say that yesterday we reached the 4 million people vaccinated,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that, finally, we have about 30 % Portuguese already with at least one dose of inoculated vaccine and that what was the goal that we have proposed, of having the adult population vaccinated, as another European population, by 70 % by the end of summer, will be achieved, if deliveries continue to occur with relative normality, and will even be exceeded. This is the best key to the future, the key in public health that is present in all areas of public policy life, a public health that does not want to leave anyone behind and that will also, most likely, in a new status of the National Health Service a possibility of strengthening and revitalizing itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u207	Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite continues to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u208	Madam President, thank you very much. In fact, Prime Minister, we are talking here about economics, we are talking about the difficulties companies are experiencing, we are talking about the difficulties and challenges of transport, we are talking about the importance of preparing mass events, we are talking about families that are experiencing the difficulties they are experiencing, and Mr Prime Minister has no word to say on all these issues. The Minister spoke here in preparations for response to the pandemic, and that is true in relation to intensive care. The problem is that, once again, the government has only prepared to react, focusing only on the last line of reply, when what should have been done was precisely in case prevention, to prevent people from becoming ill, to avoid successive confinements that give rise to this vicious circle. In fact, even with regard to the question of testing, which today is in more than 40 000 tests per day, when more than 100 000 had been promised, it was necessary to pass the disastrous months of December, January and February, with more than 6000 deaths only in January, to finally have an investment in this field. I will finish, Prime Minister, with a quote from you, in the hope that you will be able to respond, since it was a promise made in 2017. Mr. Prime Minister, in 2017, said the following : « 2017 is once and for all the year in which all Portuguese will have an assigned family doctor. In 2017, there were 711 000 Portuguese without a family doctor assigned. According to your Government portal, Prime Minister in March 2021, there were 870,000 Portuguese without a family doctor, i.e. more than 150 000 than the date on which Mr Prime Minister promised that everyone would have a family doctor assigned. So, Prime Minister, I leave the question to you: when will all Portuguese have an assigned family doctor? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u209	In reply, Mrs. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u210	Madam President, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, regarding the capacity we have had to follow the answers to this pandemic, I fear that we have done so in the same step as the pandemic has put new challenges for us. As for our testing capacity, it is undeniable that Portugal is one of the most tested countries in the European Union by millions of inhabitants. I would like to underline two numbers: the accumulated number of 600,000 tests per million inhabitants, placing Portugal as the 11. the country in the European Union in terms of tests carried out, according to data of 5 May; and the number of 3191 tests per 100 000 inhabitants, placing Portugal as the 12. the country in the European Union, also in terms of tests carried out, according to data from ECDC ( European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control ). This is at a time when Portugal is at the same time one of the countries with a lower incidence, and we are well aware of the relationship between these two realities, which we have not been tired of trying to counteract, ensuring that all testing opportunities are taken advantage of. Portugal has carried out more than 10 million (almost 11 million) tests so far. And in May, there was a day when 52,500 tests were performed, it was the day with more tests, and there was an average of 38,100 tests per day, which is a number that makes us very comfortable, especially when we find a very low percentage of positives. But I would like to tell you about family doctors, because, in fact, this is a commitment that we have not yet reached, but that we do not give up continuing. And, above all, we will not say that the alternative for family doctors we lack is the privatization of health care or the delivery of user lists to private specialists. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have walked with difficulties. Today we have more than 30 000 enrolled in primary health care for a year ago in our National Health Service, which shows well the search for care and the search for inscriptions as well as confidence in the SNS, in a year when many people have lost their jobs because of the pandemic and in which many migrants have regularized themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u211	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u212	It is a fact that we are still far from the goals we have proposed, but the 935 family doctors that we hope to hire this year and that we hope to ensure that, as recent experts, if they look at the SNS will certainly help us to counter this trend, as well as the family health units and the new health centres. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u213	Mr Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u214	Madam President, Prime Minister, we wanted to talk about Odemira. The case of Odemira has already been much discussed here today, but not exactly the question that I bring to you and which we consider important. What is happening in Odemira, and that the health crisis has shown, is something that we already knew existed, that has been shown with particular violence and that is linked, and much, to the situation of huge exploitation of greenhouse workers. Many times, we're even talking about slave working conditions and mafia dealing with human trafficking. It's nothing short of what's going on and no one here has the right to close their eyes. This is not only a problem of human rights—and, if it were, it was already serious enough— but also environmental, complicated. I remember that in 2011 when the Plan of Management of the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejo and the Costa Vicentina, the Block of the Left, at the time, stated that the policy that was being carried out, to end extensive exploitation, to remove residents and populations, to give rise to intensive production, would create serious problems, both from an environmental and social point of view. But in fact, PS, PSD and CDS agreed that there should be intensive production in that region and closed their eyes to both environmental problems and human rights problems. The stoves were growing and the problems were getting worse. In 2015, with environmental associations and immigrant associations systematically alerting all problems and based on the reports of the Judicial Police and the Foreign and Border Service, the Left Bloc presented a proposal in Parliament on forced labour to hold the whole chain accountable for human rights abuse. The PS accompanied us at that time, and we made a law to combat forced labor. This law, of 2016, has had, we know, difficulties of application, of course because, in order to be able to process all the chain that earns money on account of the exploitation of those workers, we first need to condemn the company that placed them in that circumstance. However, those are companies that form in the hour, fade in a minute and then are never condemned. So we want to improve the law and we want more supervision. But, as I say here in Parliament, it was already discussed, because it was already known, that he had forced work. It continues to increase and supervision has increased very little. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] In 2018, Capoululas Santos, then Minister of Agriculture, decided to make an order saying that greenhouses can grow without environmental impact assessment. And the stoves kept growing. They continued to grow the stoves and continued to grow the number of people working without any condition. In 2019, the government made an order to legalize the fact that people are in containers. I will not speak now of what the Left Block said at the time, because I also talked about it, but I will quote Helena Roseta, an MP elected by the Socialist Party, who said the following: « Containers are now equipped with complementary structures of agricultural activity, as if housing for workers was the same thing as storage of agricultural tailors. And he said more: “Setting 16 people in four rooms violates the minimum of individual privacy imposed by the Constitution and the law. "We are witnessing the institutionalization of a kind of refugee camp for foreign agricultural workers in the Alentejo. » I was right! And the question is that, if we already knew that there is a huge environmental and human rights problem in the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejo and the Costa Vicentina with this intensive production, it is good to look at the numbers, because in 2019 there were already 1200 ha in greenhouses and similar and at least in conservative numbers, 6000 to 8000 workers in these stoves, only in Odemira. Now, if nothing is done, if nothing is stopped, they can continue to grow the stoves and we can reach 4800 ha and more than 24,000 workers in these circumstances. Environmental associations have already pointed out that this is also an environmental problem. The Santa Clara dam has water levels below what is necessary for there to be agricultural water, and they continue to draw water. In addition, the working group accompanying the situation in the Mira river perimeter has already warned that islands are being made, i.e. ghettos of these workers who are, from a social point of view, explosives. But in the working group, it is said that this situation is as incomprehensible as these workers, in fact, are not seasonal, because working in different cultures end up working all year. So, here are the two questions that simply arise: for there is an urgent solution that cannot be to store workers in containers as if they were agricultural pellets, it is also necessary to stop the increase in greenhouses, because at the moment it is already a problem that the country cannot deal with. Do we want to continue to see it increase, or do we want to solve what we have? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u215	In reply, Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Catarina Martins, first of all, wanted to say that this has been a priority and a great concern at the level of the whole government. We have sought ways to ensure the integration and treatment of workers'continuity, regardless of their nationality and wherever they are, provided that they guarantee decent work in Portugal. In fact, it was in that sense—as I said, and well! — the law was passed in 2016, with this great concern to find accountability mechanisms for the entire contract chain to ensure greater effectiveness and also more monitoring instruments. I take advantage of sharing what has been the concern of the Labour Conditions Authority in recent years, which is to focus a lot on its activity around the phenomena where there is a greater risk of unworthy work on the part of workers. I give you the concrete example of what has been done in some activities such as civil construction or agriculture, where there is much use of migrant work. In the case of agriculture, in recent years the ACT has carried out around 3600 visits to agricultural holdings and raised counter-coordination cars for 4800 infringements with a global value of EUR 2 million fines. This is always with this great concern—as I said, and well—to seek to take responsibility for the entire chain of contracts as a way of trying to respond to a phenomenon that we know does not only happen in Portugal, it happens throughout Europe, and to which we must seek to find effective ways of deterrence and accountability of the entire chain of contracts. That's what we did. We also know, and I think this is from everyone's knowledge, often the difficulties of identifying these situations themselves. I can share with the honourable Member and with the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, my experience as a work inspector that I have been there for many years. And, as an inspector at work, many situations lived in which the workers themselves did not want to be identified, because they did not want to run the risk of power, for example, not see their situation later framed or regularized, because some of them did not have their situation regularized in Portugal. Therefore, our work and our focus has also been to ensure that people who are in Portugal, regardless of their nationality, have conditions of recognition of rights equal to any worker. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, in fact, one of the first missions I took on as Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security was to create an exceptional mechanism for all foreign workers in Portugal to have access to the social security protection system, with the so-called'social security identification number at the time', to ensure that we had the capacity of these workers to have their social security registration and to be protected. under this scheme we already have 140 000 workers who were covered by this mechanism established at the beginning of 2020, but who without this mechanism exceptionally created would be outside the system. That's being hypocritical. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have to be a country that knows how to welcome, integrate and treat all the people who are here, because we need these immigrants. [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] We must know how to welcome them and treat them and ensure that they are not in complicated processes, ensuring that their situation is dealt with as quickly as possible, because only in this way are we eliminating alternative chains that may be interested in the difficulty of their situation. [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] And this must be our focus, to ensure that we give equal rights to any of these workers. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that, in the case of Odemira, and trying to focus only on Odemira, the ACT made 122 visits to 92 companies only in 2021, including the entire contract chain because if we fail to solve the contract chain problems we will never be structurally solving the problem, we will be making palliatives with companies that appear, disappear, reappear and exit the system. 144 cars were raised for labour infringements and these interventions covered 4318 workers. I would also like to say that what we did was to ensure that, through the resolution of the Council of Ministers, that the honourable Member mentioned, and well, we limited the allowed area for greenhouses, high tunnels, tunnels and stoves — with the various designations we know — to 40% of the total of the Mira River Perimeter and not to 80%, thus limiting the installation area very much here. Our commitment is complete to ensure that any worker who is in Portugal has the same right, wherever he is and wherever he is born. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u217	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u218	Madam President, Mrs Minister, of course migrant workers are welcome in Portugal and of course they need rights. Portugal has only 5 % of the immigrant population and we have no doubt about the need for them and the respect we deserve. We too, who have emigrated a lot, know the importance of this. We have no doubt. But you know, Minister, it is not the same when in agriculture containers are legalized and in fishing a category is created that allows them to be on ships without a license. Therefore, what we are creating in the law are different categories, in which migrant workers are mistreated. And there are those who are making a lot of money with that! The problem is not the migrant workers, the problem is the abuse! In agriculture, in greenhouses, they pay 3 € per hour, repeat, 3 € per hour — far below the national minimum wage! There are a lot of people making money with the exploitation of these workers. What I think is extraordinary, Mrs Minister, is that ACT is not in the Mira working group, but it is more extraordinary that Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security answers this question to me and not Mrs. Minister of Agriculture, who does not respond to the problem of greenhouse areas can quadruply, when there is already an uncontrolled problem and which can continue to increase. But, Madam Minister, since it was the Minister who answered me, I ask you a question very briefly. Social support for self-employed people is already paid next week. Have you already updated the system to comply with what Parliament has approved? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u219	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u220	Mrs Deputies, reiterating what I said recently about the area, it has, on the contrary, been completely reduced: what was previously allowed to reach 80 % was 40 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u221	Maximum limit!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u222	In any case, I reiterate, and I have not mentioned recently, that, in particular in the context of the intervention which has taken place in Odemira, several bodies have been present, including the ACT, with a permanent presence on a daily basis—in fact, we have strengthened the number of inspectors, we have turned to 18 inspectors of the ACT in Odemira, daily, to follow up all the activity—and also social security, which, from the moment zero, is ensuring that any worker has social support and is not unprotected. We already have about 120 workers covered by social support created and with response, by this team that is on the ground permanently. I would also like to answer the other question you have raised, Mrs. As you know, we haven't stopped. Our mobilization has been permanent to adapt all support and respond to the number of people and situations that were completely discovered during the pandemic. The need for collective mobilization is a great lesson to ensure that all people are part of the social protection system. I would like to tell you that, with regard to the amendments that have been made both to the self-employed support scheme and to the special support for workers' income, they will be paid for social security in May. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u223	Mrs Catarina Martins still wants to use the 6 seconds she has. Please, Your Honor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u224	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, I know you do not have time to answer me now, but I think you will want to use this debate for that. in a conflict between the oppressor and the oppressed the fairness means always being on the side of the oppressor. This has been the great international hypocrisy in Israel's attacks on Palestine, when illegal occupations, bombings and a apartheid policy occur. Portugal has had an equidistant position that the Left Block does not subscribe to, but had never had an unacceptable position, as it now had with the Ministry of State and Foreign Affairs, to condemn the bombings...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u225	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u226	...Palestinians of Rockets and not say a word about what Israeli extremist groups have provoked or about the decision to remove families. There is no concern, it is necessary to condemn the Israeli bombings in Gaza. It is a position that changes what Portugal has been saying and that puts Portugal next to those who support the apartheid and genocide regime of Israel and that is unacceptable. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u227	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u228	Madam President, Mr. Ministers, Mrs. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, I have heard you say this - and I am quoting from my notes - that "the conclusion of the Court of Auditors' audit on the New Bank is only one: it has preserved the stability of the financial system". Therefore, I would like to begin by offering it, and by asking the Bureau to have it distributed, this sheet which says in point 4 « Conclusions ». It is, in fact, two problems: neither the conclusion is one nor even that. The conclusions of the Court of Auditors are several, and it is also concluded that it maintained the stability of the financial system, but it is not mainly that it maintained the stability of the financial system. I would invite you to read this to me, because I would explain point by point. I will not do the evil of asking you whether you want to keep, because, in fact, I have already said here that you keep, your claim that there will be no direct or indirect impact on public accounts. Mr Prime Minister, I think this is not a matter of stubbornness, as I told you, this is a problem of lack of adherence to reality, because everything that Mr Prime Minister described there that happened has an impact on public accounts. And, of course, the Court of Auditors has come to say so. It then says at the first point in the conclusions: 'Financing(...) is public and constitutes effective expenditure' — imagine there, even in parentheses! — « (non-refundable support) (...). Do not keep on seeking. ” But now I think the most important part would be Mr Prime Minister to explain why the Portuguese State, through his government, has committed itself — and we are all committed! — although it has been hidden in any case, it has taken up the commitment on behalf of the Portuguese State, with a mechanism called backstop capital which basically says this: if everything works wrong and at the end of the nearly EUR 4 billion that is added to the EUR 5000 million already in the New Bank, if at the end of this all, the bank is still ill, the Portuguese State undertakes to inject more than EUR 1600 million. This was your commitment — yours! — Government... [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] And another thing the Court of Auditors says is that the final decision-maker, last — contrary to what John Paul Correia says, who blames everyone, in this matter, was the Government of Portugal. It was the Government of Portugal that traded this sale and that traded the contingent capitalisation mechanism. to the former Government may wish to throw the blame on it, but the former Government has never even heard of it as a contingent capital mechanism. So I would like to know why we are all committed to injecting more EUR 1600 million into the New Bank if everything goes wrong, in addition to what we already knew, and why you hid this from the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u230	He said here: «I sold because I had to sell and no longer interested». The Court of Auditors says something very interesting in paragraphs 111 and 112. He says that the Banco de Portugal, when he informed Mr. Minister of Finance that he thought Lone Star was in a good situation, said the government should negotiate with Lone Star the opening of the procedure to see if there were others interested in offering more competitive conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u231	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u232	Moreover, he added that he did not find any trace of the government. So I'd like to know...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u233	Sergio Monteiro knows!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u234	The letter is addressed to the Government! I repeat, the letter is for the Government and you are Prime Minister. You who are at Banco de Portugal as governor was the Minister of Finance and the letter was sent from Carlos Costa to Mário Centeno. So do me a favor to answer whether you did it or not. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u235	To reply, Mr. Minister of State and Finance John Leon has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as the Court of Auditors states, the intervention and resolution that have been made safeguard the public interest and the financial stability of the State. This is also the main conclusion of the Court of Auditors audit.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u237	Ah! Then it wasn't the only one!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u238	There is an important aspect that you have mentioned and that has to do with the nature of the impact on public accounts. The Government has included in the stability programme over the years the accounting and statistical impact on public accounts and this type of impact has always been recognised. But we have also always said that it was a state loan to the Resolution Fund, as the Prime Minister has already mentioned several times, which has as its counterpart the recovery of interest which has been borne by the banks — more than EUR 500 million has already been incurred in interest — via the Resolution Fund, and which has also provided for a loan amortisation that will start in the coming years. On the other hand, he referred to the issue of the EUR 1600 million of the backstop mechanism. This is a last instance mechanism that is only used if all other mechanisms do not work, if necessary, if private shareholders or others cannot intervene. in this case, the State intervention would be totally different from that which is made today by the Resolution Fund, which makes a capital transfer fuelled by the contributions of the banks. in this last resort, it would always be of a different nature because, there, the shareholder position of the State would be strengthened and would have as its counterpart what the leader of the PSD so much wants, i.e. that the State has an even more relevant shareholder position in the New Bank. And I didn't want to forget anything else, which is this: what led to that, after 2017, Portugal had no alternative but that which was followed was a decision made in 2014 and, as we know, the leader of the CDS of the height assumed that he was in the Algarve, on the beach, when he made that decision that compromised the Portuguese State for the following years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u239	You have the floor again, to ask questions, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u240	Mr President, Minister, I do not know where you made this decision, I know that you took it in hiding from the Portuguese and committed us all to EUR 1600 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u241	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u242	So it would be nice for you to assume that here. However, I would like to say that I see myself in a very strange circumstance because, well, Mr. Prime Minister told me that "the conclusion is only one"...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u243	No, I didn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u244	... and the Minister said: « It is the main conclusion of several». So they're saying different things. Then Mr Prime Minister said that "there is no impact on public accounts" and Mr Minister said that "the impact has always been written"! Don't tell me that, tell Mr. Prime Minister, because I find it difficult to debate. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u245	First, I would like you to explain to me whether, with this negotiation, the possibility of other interested parties has been agreed. Then, about the contingent capital mechanism—and we're going to talk a lot about this in the next few months—I'd like you to imagine that you're doing a business that says to a bank: "If in the next few years you're selling off and fast, if you don't look a lot at things and if you're getting hurt, either in these assets, or in others, the state puts money and capitalizes the bank. If you resolve to restructure, take more risks and take more time, from a certain point of view, the state does not put a toss on there. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u246	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u247	I conclude, Madam President. Tell me, Minister, what do you think this bank will do? You may choose your first chance, so the state can put as much money there as possible. Or not? Oh, my God! This is called a bad contract and it was this contract that your government signed. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u248	To reply, Mr. Minister of State and Finance John Leon has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u249	Madam Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, there is no contradiction between the positions referred to because, as the Prime Minister has said — and well! — there is an accounting and statistical effect, i.e. it is not a transfer from the State to the Resolution Fund nor does the State intervene thoroughly. The State has made loans to the Resolution Fund which will be amortised and on which interest is charged. The ultimate responsibility for these aspects is the contributions of the banking sector, which will contribute year after year, and amortise these amounts from the State. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the sale which had to be made in 2017 under more demanding and difficult conditions followed a failed sale by the Government to which Mrs Deputy belonged, which said that she was going to make that sale, but failed to achieve it, failing what she had committed herself and, once again, leaving for our Government the « hot potato» to resolve this issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u250	Mr. Prime Minister asked for the floor to speak. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u251	Mr President, it was only to complement Mr. Minister's reply. Mrs. Cecilia Meireles, for my part, I will try to take care of my health so that, in 2046, I can meet with you... [[PS Member's laughs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] ...and verify the final impact for taxpayers of this whole operation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u252	To ask questions, I have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u253	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, there was recently a question which was clearly unanswered and concerned not only with the environmental issues of the Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina, but also with the incomprehensible silence of the Minister for the Environment. In fact, I remember that agriculture and the environment have to go hand-in-hand with regard to commitments, both at the level of investment and at the level of expansion in our territory. The Minister has taken refuge in Mogadouro and we have not heard him say anything — neither in this debate nor in this period of time — in relation to the need to have a legal regime for licensing intensive and superintensive agricultural activity, a absence for which IGAMAOT has already warned, in 2017, but which still persists until today. The NAP will give rise to a legislative initiative in this regard and the very concrete question that I leave to Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister of the Environment is this: are they available, both the Government and the PS, to accompany us in this matter and to go further? Until there is a proper legal regime for this matter, as has already been called upon by the President of the City Council of Odemira, it is necessary to suspend all the installation of greenhouses and any type of intensive and superintensive agricultural activity. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] Do you follow us or not in this which is not only a challenge of today, but also a challenge for the present and future generations, under the penalty of not having water and a healthy environment for farmers themselves in our territory today and tomorrow? This is the first question I leave to you, very clearly and objectively, Prime Minister, so that we can finally have an answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u254	To reply, Mr President, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u255	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, two years ago, acting and proposing rules for a space that is a water perimeter and which was already a natural park, since the end of the 1960s, we have reduced the area occupied with stoves and similar structures from that date. In reply to the question put by Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, I would like to say that all the licensing that has been made since then has complied with these rules — and there is no doubt about that — in the same way that it was ensured, for example, the need for distance above when they are at sea. And they are already warned, if I may say so, that these same rules will integrate the Coastal Ear Programme which is under review for that area. Therefore, I repeat, that is a water perimeter for that type of agriculture, today a set of rules far more restrictive than there were two years ago. Without thinking about Odemira, I would like to add to this other issue which I think you already know. There was a huge indefinition—and I would say this has always been—about which agricultural projects were, or were not, subject to environmental impact assessment. And this indefinition resulted from the following: in general, agriculture has no licensing entity and, as such, there was objectively no environmental impact assessment in larger projects. This question has been resolved half a dozen months ago by means of a joint order from our ministry and the Ministry of Agriculture and, therefore, today it is ensured that all the rules contained there in terms of environmental impact assessment and which result, in particular, from a Community directive, are fulfilled in Portugal, which did not happen until half a dozen months ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u256	She continues to use the word, to ask questions, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u257	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Minister for the Environment, it seems to us that this vision is clearly insufficient. Allow me to tell you, Mr Minister, that we are perhaps the last generation of elected and elected, as well as rulers, that they can not only contribute to mitigating climate change, but also to protect our country from the effects of them, particularly with regard to the shortage of water and the heat waves that will affect our territory. Without adequate territorial management instruments, of which you have not spoken, we will be far from this wish. Another example we could give, and which I can not fail to mention, is the plan for the Fifth of the English, in Cascais. Mr Prime Minister, Minister, we have already heard Mr President of the Cascais City Council say that, if the Government is at the disposal of dialogue, it will be available to rethink and stop this project. In view of the fact that what has just happened was to have been sent to the government the responsibility of halting a project that is manifestly harmful to local interests and to the public interest, because it is one of the last green spaces of the coastal shoreline, it is necessary to realize whether or not the government is available to intervene in an absolutely devastating project for the interests of the beach, the waterfalls and environmental protection in Cascais.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u258	To reply, Mr. Minister for Environment and Climate Action, João Pedro Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u259	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, who is very clear that the responsibility lies with the chamber of Cascais. Let it be absolutely clear that only the chamber of Cascais can approve the plan of detail that it wishes and only it can be held responsible for any loss of rights that legitimately were won there with a territorial management instrument that is the sole responsibility of the House. Is the government available to sit with the authorities and have that conversation? Of course he is. The Government is not available to pay 0, 01 € compensation for a territorial management instrument whose sole responsibility is municipal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u260	To continue asking questions, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u261	Mr President, Prime Minister, the last issue I bring to you concerns the human rights of women. on the part of the Government, in relation to the recent challenge of several personalities regarding sexual harassment, we heard the Secretary of State comment and leave the fight against these phenomena for social consultation on the one hand and for the role of companies on the other. However, because of this appeal from the various professionals regarding labour harassment, not only in the context of employment bonds, but also of greater precariousness, that is, when there is no employment contract, it became clear that the legislation we have today is not sufficient to cover this problem. Therefore, I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, very clearly whether the Government is available to, in the context of the work being done in the Green Paper on the Future of Work, also include other matters, particularly the subjects of sexual harassment, which seem to us to be of the greatest gravity, because the existence of pressure has nothing to do with affective relations or with consent.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u262	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u263	I shall now conclude, Madam President. It seems to us that it is a matter of the greatest importance that has been absolutely unpunished or alongside the appeal of these women, and we would like to know whether we can all count on you, Prime Minister, to make the legislation evolve.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u264	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u265	Madam President, Mrs Deputies, as you know, this is a very difficult subject, but the Committee on Equality in Labour and Employment and the Committee on Citizenship and Gender Equality have been working on this subject with awareness-raising and training actions. Obviously, we are always available to improve the legislative framework, provided that it is an improvement that no longer protects women and that it seeks to protect women and victims of harassment. Recently, in this House, steps have been taken on this matter and we are always available to deepen them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u266	As no other member of the Government intends to speak in the remaining 16 seconds, then we will move on to the Green Parliamentary Group. To ask questions, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u267	Mr President, Prime Minister, there seems to be some disillusionment within the Government in relation to the responsibility of the Portuguese State before UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ) for goods classified in national territory. The Greens were amazed by the responses of the ministries of Culture and the Environment and Climate Action to questions relating to the preservation of laurissilva in Madeira, classified as the World Heritage Site in 1999. ‘Walking the water from the hood’ is the expression that best applies to the attitude of these ministries in response to the ENP. In view of the concern of DOS Verdes, in the face of the great environmental attack that weighs on this indigenous forest, which stems from the intention of the regional government asphalt the road of the Ginjas, in full laurissilva, in the municipality of S. Vicente, and, before the claim to be clarified whether the World Heritage Centre and, through it, the UNESCO Committee had been informed of this intention and what position they had taken, the attitude of the two ministries was similar. First, they shake the responsibility for the Regional Government of Madeira, putting the Government of the Republic out of the question; second, they "pull" the responsibility for each other. The Ministry of Culture considers that we are faced with a lack of responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment, a position underpinned by a concept of a completely outdated culture, which contradicts the new approaches to the concepts of landscape and of natural/cultural relationship, that the European Landscape Convention in 2000 brought; the Ministry of the Environment and Climate Action « falls» to the Ministry of Culture, even if it is dealing with an indigenous forest with a fundamental ecological and climate function for the island. This position contradicts the attitude this Ministry had, a little while ago, when it brought to itself the glory of the classification of Porto Santo as a biosphere reserve. Are we faced with a lack of team spirit or, on the contrary, with a great team spirit, which aims to "swim to the side" and let the attack advance? Mr Prime Minister, who in the Government responds to UNESCO in the face of commitment and responsibilities for the preservation of classified goods? Has UNESCO been informed and issued any positions? Which one? Do you make a commitment here to prevent this environmental attack?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u268	To reply, Mr. Minister for Environment and Climate Action, João Pedro Matos Fernandes. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u269	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Deputy, the responsibility for representation before UNESCO is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Now, the particular case that the honourable Member is quoting is that of the construction of a road promoted by the Regional Government of Madeira, therefore only the Regional Government of Madeira can answer about it. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] And when I say this, let me make it clear that I am not adjectivating anything, I have no information on this road or I have to have, because only the Regional Government of Madeira, which manages that space, who has been behind the promotion of that candidacy, is that you can actually answer your question yesterday in the Commission, that question has been put to me and answered exactly the same way as I do now. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u270	Mr Mariana Silva, from the Green Group, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u271	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, I will ask you one last question. Almost two years after creating the status of informal caregivers, the generality of caregivers remains unsupported. On the one hand, according to the studies, 60 % of dependents do not know the status, on the other hand, more than half of the applications were rejected. It is therefore important to know whether the government is weighing the disclosure of the status and whether it will or will not speed up the conditions of access, removing excessive bureaucracy from the process.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u272	In reply, Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u273	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that our mobilisation and our commitment are total to ensure that the status of informal caregivers reaches as many people as possible and that it is as effective as possible. In fact, the pandemic has also not helped mobilisation, we have had few requests regarding the status, which is in force about nine months ago. But our commitment is complete, so much so that we have simplified the process and the truth is that, after that simplification, we have had 48 % of all referrals in the last two months. So right now, based on the simplification we made of the process, we are feeling an acceleration of the referrals and we are preparing to extend to the whole country the situations that happened in the pilot projects, as was the commitment. That is what we are preparing for, seeking that this enlargement is already done as effectively as possible. We also want to present the amendments that are necessary, in terms of legislation, to ensure that we can reach more people. Only to give this note, in April, 84 % of the applications submitted were granted, i.e. we are able to reach more people, but we have to do more and this is our total commitment and commitment, since it is a priority of the government that reaches as many people as possible. In fact, I would like to say that we have also tried to increase the number of rights associated with the statute. In collaboration with Mrs. Minister of Health, what we did was to ensure that informal caregivers have priority in vaccination, so this week they are being vaccinated under this priority, thus also recognizing its importance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u274	To ask questions, you now have the floor of Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u275	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Government has presented a set of measures against corruption and today the newspapers realize that the politicians' offices have been out of the corruption prevention strategy. And he agreed to understand why, because the epicenter in which the Portuguese want to see corruption combated was out of their strategy to prevent corruption. We already knew that illicit enrichment had been left out of the government's option, and we also learned from the newspapers that the government plans to present a penalty-free regime. We'd like to know what his meaning is. It is that the Minister of Justice who said that the award-winning delation was not working is the same as it is now presenting a system of dispensation of penalties, both in passive corruption and in active corruption. Mr. Prime Minister, this is certainly not the way it is being ruled and that corruption is being fought. Therefore, I would like to ask you exactly what will be the exemption of penalties that the Government will propose and, indeed, whether the Government foresees this either for passive corruption or for active corruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u276	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u277	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, as you know, the offices of the holders of the sovereign bodies have their own regime, defined by this Assembly of the Republic, within the framework of Law No 52 / 2019, therefore did not make sense to duplicate a regime that has already been regulated. With regard to amendments to criminal procedure and criminal law, they are based on the proposal for a law which the Government has already submitted to the Assembly of the Republic and for which you will certainly have the opportunity to participate in the debate — and I hope you will vote in favour. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u278	Mr André Ventura has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u279	Mr Prime Minister, I shall certainly not vote in favour of a regime which pays for corruption in Portugal. I would vote in favour of double the penalties for corruption in Portugal. I'll ask you about the 2017 immigration legislation. Is the government available to reverse the legislation that has been approved here? It is difficult to hear the PS and the extreme left to say that the blame now lies with the producers of agriculture and businesses, when it was the left that changed this law, which provided for the obligation of contracts, of promise of employment and prohibited, to whom it came with a tourist visa, to establish itself permanently. This was altered by VV. For example, they now say that they have nothing to do with it! Of course they have, they have approved a law that has allowed it, that has given it and that has increased by more than 200 % the number of situations equal to these. You are guilty of what is happening today in Odemira and wash your hands from there, as Pilate did, is certainly not the best answer. I ask you, finally, Prime Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u280	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u281	I shall conclude, Madam President, by only asking the Government what you intend to do with the price of gasoline. We have the sixth most expensive in Europe, with 63% tax burden. Convincing the Government...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u282	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u283	I'm really going to finish, Madam President. As I was saying, the Government agreed to say whether the budget will finally reduce the tax burden on petrol, which torments the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u284	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u285	Mr President, Mr Ventura, in fact we have quite different views on immigration, but I tell you that washing your hands would not be responding to the problems that exist. Responding to the problems that exist is to say that those who are working here have to do with the dignity that is due to every human being,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u286	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u287	... whether Portuguese, whether foreign, permanently resident in Portugal or temporarily working on seasonal work. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u288	Worthy work is decent work and will always have to be guaranteed for all and for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This implies, in particular, a response to housing. You must have written that question before yesterday and therefore did not realize two very important things that happened. One was the City Council of Odemira to undertake a concrete commitment in its local housing strategy that allows it to access 100 % financing for the settlement of the housing conditions of those who are permanent resident in Odemira ; another was that of the three main associations of agricultural producers — Lusomorango, the Association of Horticultors, Frutictors and Floricultors of the Councils of Odemira and Aljezur and Portugal Fresh — have made the commitment to ensure that seasonal workers are kept in good condition. Not being residents in Odemira, it was obviously not necessary for the municipal chamber to ensure its accommodation, but, as seasonal workers, it is important for these companies to ensure the existence of condivided housing. The condensation is not necessarily those containers which I have heard here recently. Still the other day, on television, images of an example, I think in Albufeira, of modeling housing of excellent quality. There are therefore several excellent quality model dwellings that can and should be mobilized as collective housing solutions in the urban perimeter, which is also another solution proposed by the owners. This is agreed and funds from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development will be mobilised to support this type of investment. This isn't washing your hands, it's solving your problems. And what's essential...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u289	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u290	I shall now conclude, Madam President. Fundamentally, it is to remove political consequences. And what are you asking for? It is, having a problem, finding a solution for him. That's right. That's what we're doing and we're gonna keep doing it. I'm sorry, Mr. Deputies will be happier, but I'll be a little happier. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u291	Finally, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u292	Mr President, Prime Minister, you are mistaken, I am not angry at anything when you try to avenge here the narrative outside the PS propaganda department, that there was a huge victory of socialism over liberalism. It's fun, it's something that doesn't bother me, it's fun! They say that during a pandemic and an emergency, liberals accept State aid is a defeat, but for socialists, it is no longer a defeat the confinement of people, the closure of borders, the compulsory collection. So unless it's from that kind of socialism more than that left side of those benches, I thought it wasn't this, nor did I make that charge. I appreciate that, although fun, don't insist very much on the narrative because it won't paste, at least while I'm here. Then say that Portugal reacted very well and that there was a victory in health... did you react well in health, Prime Minister? Millions of consultations and late examinations, more than 100,000 late surgeries. At a certain point, in one thing, that I didn't even know that there existed and with a name a little unhappy, EuroMOMO, which monitors mortality, we had several weeks with the excessive mortality record—I'm not talking about the COVID, I'm talking about excess mortality. We still had here, last week, an OECD specialist ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) to show that Portugal has the greatest learning delays. He's had schools closed a lot longer than other countries... [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u293	...and learning delays still have no recovery plan. Even today, on May 12, we're talking about this and they have no recovery plan. Of the economy, not even talking! There are few countries in Europe that have had more recessions than our own. Few countries! We're already going to 11 % accumulated. Therefore, Prime Minister, I also warn that the narrative of saying that 4 % or 5 % growth next year is very good is not true. We are down 11 % and several other countries are going to recover much faster than we are. This part is just not fun because it's tragic for Portuguese people who are suffering from this. Fun, fun, in the end, is also to imagine the face of the citizens of the liberal countries of Europe saying: "Eh pa! We have a victory of socialism in Portugal and we have a defeat of liberalism», and this in these countries that have done everything better than us! [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u294	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u295	Mr President, I will conclude with this result: these citizens of the liberal countries will prefer the defeat of liberalism to the victory of socialism because they live better than what you call the 'win of socialism'.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u296	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u297	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, thank you very much. The honourable Member has an art that is to take part of what a person says, forget a part of what the person has also said and add a part that the person has not said. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Rice from CDS-PP, from CH Member André Ventura and from IL Member João Cotrim de Figueiredo.]] I understand that this is a good marketing technique, because you are the self-propaganda department, but actually it does not contribute much to the credibility of the parliamentary debate. I was a little bit more limited than what I wanted to point out. I have limited myself to stressing the defeat of liberalism, I have not proclaimed the victory of socialism, because the defeat of liberalism is certainly accompanied by Christian Democrats...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u298	The new ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u299	...and for all those who believe and see themselves in the word of Pope Francis — who should not be socialist, I presume — about dignity...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u300	Your comrade! [[Rice from CDS-PP, from CH Member André Ventura and from IL Member João Cotrim de Figueiredo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u301	Ah! Is she my comrade, too? Oh, my God! That's extraordinary! [[General laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u302	Oil!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u303	Open your arms! With a complete ecumenical spirit! I never imagined so much distinction or the liberal blindness was so far away that even the Pope was socialist! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Sir, it's an honor! It's a huge honor. But I must tell you that your reaction and the shadow of Mr Ventura only confirm, in fact, what I say is that the defeat of liberalism was not a victory for socialism.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u304	So, who did it come from? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u305	It was a victory of Christian democracy and of all those who truly believe in the dignity of the human person, as Pope Francis effectively believes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u306	And so am I!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u307	This defeat of liberalism was translated into the following: at a time of great distress, after years of discourse on the chaos in the National Health Service, who ensured the response to the pandemic drama was even the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After all you said against the public school, when the school closed, it was really: "Here's el-king! Where is the public school to respond to needs? Oh, my God! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u308	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u309	And when companies had difficulty maintaining jobs, when families had difficulty maintaining and protecting their incomes, who responded to social security, it was not the liberal response. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u310	So we've reached the end of our...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u311	Mr. President, just one word...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u312	Mr. Prime Minister, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u313	It's really just a word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u314	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u315	Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, there is one thing for which I really want to thank you very much, who has had this idea that Pope Francis is a socialist. I believe that all socialists will feel enormous pride, not only in Portugal as in the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u316	Let us therefore move on to the second item on our agenda, which is the debate on the instruments of economic governance of the European Union, with the participation of the Government, as provided for in Article 4(1) ( e ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic, in the framework of the European Union Construction Process, and the preparatory debate of the European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister, as provided for in Article 4 ( 1 ). the Law of Monitoring and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic, in the framework of the European Union building process. To open this debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very quickly, I will concentrate on two fundamental points of the next Council agenda, and one of them naturally has to do with COVID-19. The debate will be developed with a view to ensuring the European capacity to increase its vaccine production within the scope of the task force being mobilized by Commissioner Thierry Breton. It was with great satisfaction that we saw 12 Portuguese companies participating in the conference that took place on 29 and 31 last month and also, with great satisfaction, we saw that the European Commission has already concluded a new contract with BioNTech/Pfizer to buy more 1800 million vaccines, to be administered in 2022 and 2023, on the one hand, to be able to extend the vaccination campaign to young people and children, and on the other hand to prevent the need for a third dose if it becomes necessary. Another very important dimension, particularly for countries such as Portugal, is the process of approving the digital green certificate. Today, it is already guaranteed that its scope is not exclusion but integration, as it will cover not only those who have been vaccinated but also those who have a negative test and, above all, those who have already been contaminated with the COVID-19. It is therefore a broad spectrum certificate which can greatly speed up freedom of movement within the European Union. We are confident that by the end of this month it will be possible to complete the route successfully with the European Parliament. The European Commission, still this week, gave the Council assurance that during June, all the computer infrastructure supporting the certificate will be in full operation. We hope that this is possible. The third fundamental dimension has to do with international solidarity. As I mentioned earlier, Mr Baptista Leite said, we will only be sure when we are all safe, and it is therefore essential that the European Union continue to engage in the COVAX Mechanism, for which for the time being it has been the largest contributor, and to keep open its export lines, in order to ensure this solidarity also by bilateral mechanisms, such as those which we ourselves have established with the Portuguese-speaking African countries and with Timor-Leste, and those which other countries have established with other developing countries. The second point I would like to highlight from this Council is climate action. After the agreement has been reached to have the first climate law at European level, we can now move forward in the effort-sharing regulation, in order to establish binding national targets that all countries must meet in order to achieve the common goal of carbon neutrality in 2050, and the great effort for this carbonic neutrality must be developed in this decade by 2030. Portugal leaves for this debate in a very ambitious position. In the studies of the European Commission, Portugal is pointed out as the country that is in a better position to meet this goal in 2030, the result of the continued investment that has been developed since 2005 — with some interruptions — in the bet on renewable energies, which we continue to develop, either around the construction of the necessary infrastructures for a true industry that ensures electrical mobility, or with the use of new types of energy, in particular renewable gases, such as green hydrogen. I believe that we can therefore, from a national point of view, face this debate in a comfortable way. Let us hope that the European Union as a whole can take a very ambitious stance on this matter. It is in this sense that we will work as President so that the next Council will also be a success. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u318	The PS Parliamentary Group, through Mrs Edite Estrela, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u319	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Forty-five years later, the happy slogan « Europe with us », which Mário Soares launched in 1976, acquired current and gained new meanings. As at that time Europe came to Porto to support democracy out of April 25 and Portugal's accession to the EEC ( European Economic Community ), Europe is also now with us in the fight against the pandemic crisis, economic recovery and social protection, so that no one will be left behind. At the last weekend, all European, real and digital roads went to Porto. The presidents of the European institutions and the Heads of Government and State, came the social partners and civil society, together, to define Europe's social agenda for the next decade, all together and committed to deepening the European social model. For the first time in the history of the European Union, a document, the Social Commitment of Porto, was signed by European leaders, trade unions and representatives of employers'associations, an unpublished fact that must be underlined, even more if we take into account its objectives : to confirm the action plan of the European Pillar of Social Rights and the goals for employment, qualifications, combating poverty and social exclusion. "Give me a point of support and I will move the world. » I have heard the famous statement by Archimedes about the European Pillar of Social Rights. In fact, the 20 principles of the European Pillar of Social Rights, proclaimed in 2017 at the Gothenburg Social Summit, can be the point of support for moving Europe towards a strong, sustainable and inclusive recovery and economic and social convergence with the focus on social rights, but without forgetting the economy, because everything is linked. ambitious and quantified objectives have been defined: a minimum employment rate of 78 %, which also means reducing gender disparities in employment; a participation of 60 % of adults in training courses every year; removing at least 15 million people from poverty, including 5 million children. It should also be stressed that the European Council held in Porto has taken a very significant step which has not been properly valued. In the evaluation of the European Semester, in addition to the goals of deficit and debt, there will also be a panel of social indicators that will count on the assessment of the imbalances in countries. In other words, social indicators will be weighed in the six-monthly evaluation, alongside economic indicators. What we had to walk here! The Port Social Summit was a success. Congratulations, Mr. Prime Minister, and congratulations to all who have contributed to this enormous success. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As Ursula von der Leyen pointed out, visibly satisfied: « Portugal corresponded to expectations. » The Port Summit ran so well that even the detractors of the custom turned to evidence and praised the results. But the port was not only the space of great convergence and ambition in the social area, it was also the stage of the European Union-India Summit. This encounter at the highest level between the two most populous democracies in the world, with the participation of all Heads of State and Government, is of the greatest geopolitical and economic importance. Thanks to the Portuguese Presidency, it was possible to relaunch the economic negotiations between the EU and India, which have been suspended since 2013. As Minister Augusto Santos Silva well recalled in a timely article, the Portuguese were the first Europeans to launch bridges between the East and the West 500 years ago. With Vasco da Gama, we discovered the sea road to India. We have now created conditions for Europe to pursue a path with India for mutual benefit, which only Portugal could achieve.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u320	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u321	From time immemorial to time the future of Europe has been discussed. It was because a number of visionaries were concerned about the future of Europe which was born in the EEC and which in Maastricht evolved into the European Union. over the seven decades of existence of the European project, the debate on the future of Europe has driven all major changes. Now, European citizens are called on to participate in the design of Europe of the future, and that makes all the difference. The Europe of values engraved on stone by the founders, guardian of democracy and the rule of law, defender of freedom and equality, creator of the social state, capable of combating populism and xenophobia that run the foundations and depict the facade of the building that the world still looks as an example. Last May 9 was not only symbolic Europe Day, it was an inaugural milestone in a debate on the future of the Old Continent. The inaugural ceremony of the Conference filled us with pride. It was so good that even Mr. Paulo Rangel, who had the worth of criticizing the government this time, congratulated Ana Paula Zacharias and praised the speech of Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa. [[P.S.'s applause.]] « Everyone is composed of change» wrote Camões, very timely quoted by Mr. Prime Minister, in this praised speech. It is fair to recognize that the Union has changed a lot to adapt to new times and to meet the expectations of Europeans. It has shown determination and ambition in the decision that the agreement on climate law, that Mr. Prime Minister has already spoken, is an auspicious example and that it has already allowed the Union to reach the Earth Summit and transform our commitments into law. The fourth Portuguese Presidency of the European Union has not finished yet, but it already leaves an indelible mark of quality. Despite the conditionalisms imposed by the pandemic, he has already written a beautiful page of the history of Europe. There goes the time of Portugal good student and Portugal submitted, which even wanted to go beyond the troika. Today, Portugal is a respected and influential voice in Europe. We have good reason to be proud. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u322	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u323	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Governors, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The next European Council of 24 and 25 May, as we know, will have issues of COVID and foreign policy. However, I would say that the Portuguese Presidency of the Council is now very low and fragile. Furthermore, a few weeks ago the European Parliament, which is the home and voice of democracy in the Union, condemned categorically and stoned by 633 votes in total of 690, the Portuguese Government and the Minister of Justice for the unacceptable interference in the appointment of the European Prosecutor, or rather a prosecutor placed and forced by the Government of V.A. As much as they want to shake the water from the hood, this case tarnishes the good name of the Portuguese State and shames the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union. And the Minister of Justice is still whispering to the side. Even more serious, he continues to withhold information, even though he has been asked by letter by five European Members. And, no, this is not a political guerrilla. These are facts. It is appropriate to ask: what does the government hide? What does the Prime Minister now hide, now also President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, who has been running a marathon for some time without Ferrari or ass? Mr. Prime Minister, if I can read well in the stars, is preparing to be the next President of the European Council, replacing Charles Michel, who began his term in December 2019 and will end it in 2022, and that with the sad episodes, particularly that of the'sophagate', will have a lot of difficulty in being renewed. We have seen this film of the exchange of chairs with Mário Centeno, which left the finance folder to go to the Governor of Banco de Portugal. Mr Prime Minister, there remains - I congratulate you on the position you have promised in the European corridors. I hope it will be confirmed because, if so, Portugal will breathe better. Portugal will see the release of a Prime Minister who has only led friends in his governments — who, however incompetent they are, only continue to carry out their duties because they are part of their inertia — real opponents to the public interest. Mr Prime Minister, I wish you a good European Council and bonvoyage to Brussels. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u324	In addition to using the time available to the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Sérgio Marques has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u325	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, a word on the Port Summit. Yes, it is good that we try to strengthen the European social model. It is positive but also very timely, given the enormous social challenges that the pandemic, demography and digital and ecological transitions put into the European social model. Social justice is the most distinguishing value of European identity. It is good that we put it in focus, precisely when we just celebrated Europe's Day and the Conference on the Future of Europe was launched. But, Prime Minister, at the Port Social Summit, I would like to have seen a greater focus on social convergence as an expression of the need for greater social and territorial cohesion. Social disparities are huge in the European area. There are regions, such as the outermost regions, which are faced, almost systematically, with higher levels of unemployment and poverty and with more difficulty in ensuring access to quality health care. Having said that, it is important, however, not to forget that Europe corresponds to the most advanced world space in social terms. About 50% of all social expenditure is carried out in Europe. But we represent only 7% of the world's population and 23% of the global economy. For this reality, as well as for the need of Europe to be more competitive, he drew our attention to Chancellor Merkel in 2012. We will have reduced conditions to support the social model, if we are not more competitive. Along with the priority to the social pillar, I would like to have seen the same attention given to the competitiveness pillar in the Portuguese Presidency, as it did in the Lisbon Strategy. But to be more competitive, to free ourselves of the growth potential that our economy is closing, it is imperative to make reforms, and this is an objective in the heart of the European Semester and the Recovery and Resilience Plan. Only by making the necessary reforms Portugal will grow around 4 %, freeing us from the stagnation in which we have been in for more than 20 years, so that we will cease to walk step-by-step, again, towards the tail of Europe. That is why it is worrying, Prime Minister, the aversion, the lack of will to make reforms which you express. In this regard, it is symptomatic the lack of transparency that led to the almost omission of reforms in the PRR version ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) for internal consumption. Mr Prime Minister, can I not finish without asking you: will you continue this allergy to reforms? Will you do it as soon as possible and only to the extent strictly necessary, to satisfy that established with Brussels? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u326	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. For an intervention, Mrs Fabíola Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u327	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. and Mrs Deputies and all the people who contribute to parliamentary work: It does not cease to be symbolic that after the Social Summit of the Port, today's European debate is on the instruments of economic governance of the Union. Even after the pandemic, which we still go through, we have shown how fragile we are and how dependent we are on strong public health systems, on universal social responses and on the capacity of a European response which is, this time, solidarity, nevertheless, we continue to place at the centre of government the comparison of economic and financial indicators. GDP and the deficit, but not the employment rate, wage differences between women and men or other social and environmental indicators will be the measure of success. The rule that measures us semi-annually continues to set aside social and environmental progress, which is essential for promoting inclusive and sustainable development. Accepting the existence of more than 70 million poor people — many of them workers in Europe — in 2030 is not, in our view, a success, a defeat. The best example of this priority of absolute profit on the common good is the response to COVID-19. In the port, the 27 reached an agreement on the digital green certificate. This certificate, which raises issues of equality and privacy, will facilitate movement in time of restrictions, which is positive and helps economic recovery, but does not guarantee global security. The Left Block argues that only the temporary suspension of intellectual property rights under the TRIPS Agreement (Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) will allow the sharing of knowledge for the production of vaccines and other CVID-19 drugs, which will enable its production and distribution not only at national and European level but mainly globally. Whoever defends him is not just the Left Block. He is António Guterres, at the United Nations ( United Nations ), the Director-General of the World Health Organization and also the two main world vaccine producers, already with large-scale installed production capacity, India and South Africa. However, these countries have seen their request to the World Trade Organisation rejected. This request, supported by 100 countries, was rejected with the vote against the European Union, as we well know. There are a number of European countries, Portuguese and international personalities, the new American administration and Pope Francis who defend the breaking of patents. This has happened in the past and we can learn from these other pandemics. For example, there are cases of poliomyelitis and HIV, which have ceased to kill through non-registration or suspension of patents. Keeping everything as it is is to condemn countless lives that could be saved. Rejecting India and South Africa's request is to give in to the lobby of the large pharmaceutical industry and put at risk not only the citizens of these countries but also European citizens, in the near future, where variants are inevitable and do not know borders. Vaccinating Europe is not enough to protect Europe. So, Prime Minister, I ask you very directly: what is the current position of the Portuguese Government on patenting? What action does the Portuguese Government take when it presides over the next European Council on this subject? Can we count on you to defend the European Union's favourable vote in the World Trade Organisation and thus ensure that VOCID vaccines become a public good, universal access? Or will the profit of large pharmaceutical companies continue to be worth more than human lives? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u328	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u329	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP advocates the construction of a Europe of cooperation between sovereign and equal States in rights, social progress and peace. What the European Union has been imposing on the people of Europe is all but that. What is seen and confirmed is that the European Union's response to each new crisis episode is the deepening of capitalist integration and its neoliberal, military and federalist pillars. The Budget Treaty, the economic governance packages, the European Semester, the country-specific recommendations, the various conditionalities in the use of structural funds, among many other mechanisms of constraint, constitute a series of conditionalisms - particularly at the economic and budgetary level - that subject countries like Portugal, benefit from the main capitalist powers and strengthen the domain of large capital. The European Union's interference process continues in the sovereign powers of the States. Because of the imposition of so-called structural reforms, the European Union is attempting to intervene directly in matters such as taxation, wages, labour legislation or social policies. And we have no doubt about the political options and the beneficiaries of the custom of Brussels decisions (and taxes), no matter how gongorous social proclamations are to serve as an intrusion for further neoliberalism! In environmental and climate issues the panorama is the same. The mercantilization of responses and solutions, the market approach, enshrined in the so-called 'European Climate Law', ignores the problem of externalization of emissions along value chains, i.e. that of European multinationals who, looking for better operating conditions and lower wages, stop polluting here to pollute the very atmosphere from another location on the planet. We see the closure of the Petrogal refinery in Leça da Palmeira, which only brings more unemployment and dependence, the cash flow of shareholders' interests. We reaffirm: a serious approach to the problem of climate change requires questioning the foundations of a society that is organised on the basis of profit rather than the satisfaction of human needs. With regard to COVID-19, there is a political option of the European Union, enthusiastically defended by the Government, which we cannot but question and which has to do with the so-called 'digital green certificates' on the immunity or testing of each citizen. The question is very simple: what is the reason for creating an entire system outside the mechanisms in force in the WHO, against WHO's pronouncement, ignoring its warnings? What is the reason for doubling and disaggregating this international system with a parallel regime, in fact, similar to what happened with the famous diplomacy of the vaccine, on the edge of the COVAX system (global access to the UN Vaccines of the COVID-19 )? Why is it so important for the European Union to devalue the United Nations system, its role and its intervention? And why does the Portuguese Government align with this? Moreover, on the external policy issues of the European Union, what is noted on the agenda of this Council meeting is a deafening silence as to what is happening in Palestine, together with a shameful position of the Portuguese Government. Mr. Prime Minister, there is no conflict in Palestine, there is an occupation! In Palestine, there is a concrete practice of systematic violation of international law by the State of Israel, of violation of UN Security Council resolutions, of repression and expulsion of populations, from Sheikh Jarrah, East Jerusalem, of military acts of aggression in places of worship, Muslims in Ramadan and Christians in the Easter, of war crimes in the aggression of Gaza. We ask : is there going to be another position of the Portuguese Government and the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union that ends this shocking subservience that we are still witnessing? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u330	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u331	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretarys, I have three minutes and I ask three quick questions. The first relates to the Council's agenda, which, although repeated in relation to the agenda of other Councils, has important updates on vaccination. This is not the issue of patents, because the big issue in question is about who proposes this path and I would have to say, then, where would the vaccines be made. So they are extremely interesting discussions, but I don't think they have any practical usefulness right now and we're not going to waste time with it. However, there is another issue that concerns us that it is the durability of each of the vaccines, because it is something that is not yet known, but that it will be known in the medium term. It is therefore essential to know whether this kind of action that the European Union is having for this first administration of the vaccine is expected to be replicated if it is necessary for those who have already taken the vaccine to take it back again, from a certain period of time, which we do not yet know what it is. Then we have the question of the Social Summit. I want to say that, of course, the CDS congratulates the Government on organizing this summit in the Portuguese Presidency and trying to develop the European social pillar. We know that this is a pillar that has limitations in its development for two concrete reasons. The first reason has to do with the fact that it is a political area which is not within the competence of the Union, based on the competences of each of the States. Moreover, we have seen the paradox: while Portugal, in its Presidency of the Council of the European Union, organized this summit internally, had a problem that also has to do with labour issues and with the new reality of work, migration and, if so, with temporary migration to a certain type of work. Obviously, the challenge is great. What, then, is the question? On this last issue, what is the expectation that, in fact, the principles that come from the development of the 20 commitments that had already been approved in Gothenburg are being implemented and are now being updated and developed? Then there is the economic issue. It does not help to have a social pillar if the European Union is economically unable, for example, to achieve some of the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy in order to have sufficient economic strength and role to sustain a social policy that we all want. The last question has to do with taxation. in an interview recently given by Commissioner Vestager to a Portuguese newspaper, there was an imminent agreement on digital taxes. The question is the same as always: does a possible agreement on tax on digital imply or not the end of the veto right? Is or is not the end of the veto right on this type of issue on the table, in particular on the issue of the introduction of new taxes at European level? We know that it will be necessary to pay the money that is in the PRR and in all the European mechanisms that support recovery and that there is no source of funding yet, it is essential that, in the European context, it should be said what it is going to be and that citizens should be informed so that they can have their opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u332	Mrs Bebiana Cunha, from the PAN Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, I will discuss three matters as soon as possible. The first of these matters concerns the issue of patent lifting. At the next meeting of the European Council, it will be imperative to discuss the lifting of the vaccine patents as a common good for humanity. What will be the position of Portugal after all? Mr Prime Minister, in the previous debate, has already given some lights, but we would like to know whether Portugal will actually contribute to a just and supportive Europe in order to bring the vaccines to all of them. We are also talking about relations with third countries. Mr Prime Minister, the second question is this: a European strategy to combat trafficking in human beings has been presented to the various countries. Portugal is a country of destination, it is a country of origin, as well as a country of transit in organized traffic networks. The European strategy seems to be very focused on a single type of trafficking, forgetting or not giving due attention to various forms of exploitation, such as labour exploitation, begging or even trafficking in minors. We would like to know whether Portugal is going to pay due attention to these forms of trafficking. Will you insist on preventing, in particular, aid for the development of other countries, both in the European Union and in third countries, in order to avoid the extreme vulnerability that leads to people falling into these networks? All this, Mr Prime Minister, because we really need to ensure that there is indeed a robust response from the European community to these problems. It is that if we do not do so we will be contributing to forms of slavery, labour or sexual exploitation. It is essential that Portugal have a firm position on this issue. The third question concerns climate change. There are two key points that we would like to put to the government to ensure that the Climate Law is much more than a manifesto of intentions. First of all, it is important to know whether we are going to have a law only focused on combating climate change or climate change. We are well aware of the importance of adapting climate change in our country and we would like to know whether Portugal will require a genuine link to the goals, whether it will defend sanctions for the failure to meet these goals. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that the fight against climate change, to be effective, cannot forget the impact of intensive livestock. We would like to know whether Portugal will continue to defend the subsidization of a highly polluting sector or whether it will impose targets, equating up to European rates.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u334	Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u335	Mr President, Prime Minister, in response to the pandemic, the European Union presents the digital green certificate as an instrument that facilitates free and safe circulation, serving as proof of the vaccination, testing or recovery of COVID-19. But the Greens wanted to remember that the World Health Organization has made recommendations that discourage this certificate, because, with a global shortage of vaccines, this certificate can certainly increase inequalities. I also recall that Portugal has ratified the international health regulation, which is binding on 196 countries, which even defines the international vaccination certificate, but which is different from what the European Union wants, in particular with regard to the collection and processing of personal data. We therefore ask whether the Government does not consider that this digital green certificate is in fact incompatible with the recommendations of the World Health Organization and if it cannot even have an inverse effect and create obstacles to movement. For example, will the certificate include all vaccines recognised by WHO or only those already authorised to be placed on the market by the European Medicines Agency? It was important to know this. Next, Mr Prime Minister, moving to the point of climate change, in particular the Climate Law, The Greens consider the agreement announced for the reduction of greenhouse gases to 55 % by 2030. Now we are 52, 8 % and it is essential that at least 60 % reduction be established as already approved by the European Parliament. The Greens even argue that the goal should be more ambitious and reach up to 65% in 2030 because, in fact, the climate emergency we live requires greater effort. This leads us to wonder how it is possible for Portugal to hold the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in which environmental matters should be a priority, and to be satisfied with this objective, when we run to the risk of not complying with the Paris Agreement itself. We thus threaten the fate of present and future generations by pushing them into a climate chaos, when we know that it was possible to do differently and differently. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u336	Mr. André Ventura has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u337	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to ask about the number of asylum applications that Europe has had in recent years, well above 500 000, and in some years of 700 000. It is impossible for any block to survive with this number of asylum applications—not the United States, not the European Union. We must control immigration within the European Union. In this respect, and even because we had a good example of this situation in Odemira, I would like to tell you directly that Islamic immigration is a significant danger to Europe today. In 2050 it is estimated that 15 % of the European population can be Islamic, particularly from countries where Islamic fundamentalism prevails, such as Syria, Pakistan, Afghanistan and others. It is a danger to our citizens, a danger to our women and a danger to our cities. We must say this clearly because I think that no one wants to repeat in Portugal the situation in Belgium, Sweden, France and Germany. In Brussels, getting out of the center is entering another world ; it looks like a world of burs and fins that we certainly do not want to repeat in Lisbon. Therefore, as Europeans, we should have the ability to say whether or not we will continue to accept this flow of Islamic immigration into the territories of the European Union. Many of the countries, some of which are references by Mr Prime Minister, such as Sweden and France, have already begun to revert the Islamic immigration policy to their territory. What will Portugal do, especially within the framework of the European Union, in this area? Mr. Prime Minister, to finish my question about trafficking in human beings and the SEF. Recently, you and your Minister for Internal Administration said that combating trafficking in human beings, especially in a country of destination and origin such as Portugal, implies a joint strengthening of control mechanisms. Extinguishing the SEF is certainly not that control mechanism. Turn it into a Foreign and Asylum Service is a joke for our European Union partners when we need to control the incredible flow of either migrants or human trafficking—it can only be a joke within the European Union! So I ask you if you feel comfortable in keeping this name, Foreign and Asylum Services, which will certainly be the target of the biggest European chacot.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u338	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u339	I will finish, Mr. President. In the context of a fight against trafficking in human beings in the European Union, does it feel comfortable?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u340	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u341	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the Minister of Defence considered, in recent statements made 15 days ago, that Russia is a threat and that Europe's unity is the best remedy. It is welcomed that there is someone in the government who is assertive in front of the tyrants and tyrants who are going there, but the question is: what exactly will be the position of the Portuguese Government in the next European Council to respond to the threat of Russia's military maneuvers in the Black Sea and Crimea? In the foreign policy next week, there will be a meeting by countries such as Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States, open to all United Nations countries, on the repression of religious minorities and the disrespect for human rights in Xinjiang, China. Now, the Chinese communist regime has called for non-participation in this event and the new Chinese ambassador in Portugal has, in fact, published several texts in recent weeks to whiten the concentration camps forced as fields of reeducation. Will Portugal give in to Chinese threats or participate in this human rights event? Two weeks ago, I asked the Government here about the sense of vote of the Portuguese State in the recent decision to appoint Iran to the Commission on the Status of Women in the United Nations. Minister Mariana Vieira da Silva replied that she did not know, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not say what the sense of vote was either. The question I have to ask is simple, and I know that the Prime Minister shares respect for European values and certainly does not believe that women's rights can be sold in exchange for behind-the-shelf agreements. Mr Prime Minister, did Portugal vote for the inclusion of Iran in this Commission or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u342	To close this debate, Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u343	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I thank you on behalf of the Government for the comments, questions and positions expressed in this debate, which are always very important. This was a dual debate on the preparation of the next European Council and economic governance instruments within the European Union. And there is no better opportunity to make this connection, since one of the major results of the Social Summit in Porto, as Mrs Editi Estrela has already said, was on the one hand the approach between the social dimension of the European Union and the strengthening of the social indicators of the European Union, and on the other hand the European Semester, i.e. the main mechanism for coordinating economic policies. Mrs Fabíola Cardoso said, and quite well, that, in addition to considering debt, in addition to considering the deficit, in addition to considering GDP and its growth, we need to see how differences in employment between men and women are or how the unemployment rate is. If you please read in the English version page 43 the action plan for the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights presented by the European Commission and signed by all European social partners, the European Parliament and the Commission itself, supported by the European Council in Porto at the end of last week, you will find that one of the decisions is precisely to review the social indicators panel, including indicators on employment rates, including the youth unemployment rate, and indicators on gender differences in employment. This revised indicator panel should now form part of the European Semester, i.e. the mechanisms and criteria that we use to coordinate our economic policies. Mr João Almeida said, well, that social policy is typically a national policy. We know from the Lisbon Strategy that we have a powerful Community method, the method of coordination, to signal together goals that we want to achieve — in which we have to be clear and accurate in defining these goals — and then to carry out the monitoring and approximation of these targets by each of the Member States. Another very important decision at the Porto Social Summit was that we will make a mid-term review of the action plan for the implementation of the European pillar of social rights in 2025. We are all committed to precise goals: 78 % employment rate; reduction to half of the differences between men and women today in terms of employability; at least 60 % of adults in training actions, at least once a year; 80 % of the adult population with basic digital skills; reduction to less than 10 % of the current rate of so-called 'no', young people who do not work or study; and reduction in the number of people at risk of poverty, whose number, according to the calculated European criteria, should fall by at least 15 million. We have precise goals, each one can follow a path, it is his responsibility, it is his sovereignty, each one can follow his pace, but we are all involved in those goals that are our joint goals and in the coordination of our policies. Now, as Mrs Edite Estrela pointed out well, in the last weekend there was not only the Social Summit of the Port, but also the first realisation event of the Conference on the Future of Europe, and it is very important that we look at these two initiatives in parallel. Why? Because, basically, they basically mean that European institutions want to have with them not only the Member States but also the social partners and the citizens as a whole. The Conference on the Future of Europe is the involvement of all citizens, civil society organisations and non-governmental organizations in this way of European construction, in which this involvement is focused not on the ultimate discussion on institutional architecture but on concrete public policies to respond to the specific needs and concrete projects of citizens. The Social Summit of the Port also means the involvement of the social partners, all five European social partners, representing the workers, employers and civil society, who were present there, and all signed a common commitment — the Social Commitment of the Port. This is the first time that a social commitment of this amplitude is signed not only by all European social partners but also by the European Commission and the European Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Of course, social policy must be married to economic policy. We need to grow economically to have, for example, social contributions and taxes, which are used to finance social security and social protection. The Social Commitment of Porto also provides an answer to another question. If Mr Marques wishes to see what are the three major areas in which the compromise is expressed, he will notice that the second area, absolutely decisive, is that of qualifications and training. That's the best engine of competitiveness. at the same time, when we consider, truly thinking of the added value of the Portuguese Presidency, that it is not enough to look at the dual transition and that it is necessary to put at the heart of our attention the strengthening of the European social model, we mean that the European social model is one of the main drivers of European economic competitiveness and, in order to take the full advantage of digital transition and climate transition, it is necessary to increase qualifications, increase employment and employability and strengthen social protection. Portugal has not changed its position regarding the conflict in Palestine. Portugal says all of this and it is to say all of this that is respected everywhere. And what I am going to say here today has already said to my fellow Israeli on a telephone call: Portugal supports the solution of the two States as the only solution capable of ensuring the coexistence of two sovereign States, living peacefully side by side; Portugal condemns the policy of colonization and occupation of territory by Israel ; Portugal condemns all excesses and calls for maximum containment of the parties ; but Portugal condemns the launch of rockets. More than 1000 rockets were launched against civilian populations! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal does not forget this, because Portugal condemns all attacks on the dignity of people, whatever their nationality and whatever their religion. Portugal calls on the parties that defend peace and defend dialogue not to be crushed by opposite signal extremisms, that what they want is to clean up from the face of this land, sacred to so many, the moderates, because they only know how to live from the escalation of violence and provocation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, on behalf of the Portuguese Government, I can speak to the Palestinians, I can speak to the Israelites, I can speak to the Jordanians — indeed, the Jordanian Minister will be here at the informal meeting of the Foreign Ministers — I can speak to all the relevant actors in the area, knowing that they all respect the Portuguese position, which is not an equitable position. We are not equidistant, we are in favour of peace and human rights, whatever ethnicity, whatever religion, whatever nationality, whatever place we are talking about. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u344	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda. Secretary Nelson Peralta has several information to give to the House. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u345	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, Law Proposals Nos 92 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 93 / XVI / 2. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 13. a ; Resolution Proposals Nos 21 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), 22 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), 23 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) and 24 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), all down to 2. the Commission ; Draft Law Nos 818 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 827 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 828 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. a, 829 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 830 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 831 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 832 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; and draft resolutions Nos 1259 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 12. a and 13. a Commissions, 1260 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 1261 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 8. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-12.u346	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, just remember that we will have a plenary session tomorrow at 3 p.m. with an appeal to the Government, requested by the PSD, on territorial cohesion. There's nothing else to deal with, I'm closing our session. [[It was 19 hours and 16 minutes.]]
