ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start the plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, Mr. Journalists and Mr. Officers of authority. The first item on the agenda is the joint general assessment of Bill Nos 746 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Determines the installation of closed television circuits in slaughterhouses and 764 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Determines the obligation of the installation of fire detection system on livestock holdings of classes 1 and 2, on an intensive basis, by making the fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 220 / 2008 of 12 November 2008. To open the debate and intervene, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Every year they go through the Portuguese slaughterhouses, at least 11 million animals. in these places, there are known non-compliances with rules and procedures, with regard to the welfare of animals, in the various stages of the slaughter process, such as transport, discharge, referral, stagnation, immobilization, stunning and even slaughter of animals. in a report by RTP ( Radio and Television of Portugal ), entitled And if we spoke, issued on February 25 of this year, once again a reflection was brought to the public about the sincerity of these animals and the need to review the way they are sometimes subject to unacceptable conditions. What does the NAP talk about, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? For example, we are talking about the application of electric discharges in areas not allowed in the body of animals, with prolonged and little spaced durations; the application of violent panics, including kicks, pushes and aggressions in sensitive parts of the body; the inefficiency in immobilization of animals in slaughter, which would help to prevent suffering, agitation, injury or unnecessary contusion; the harassment of animals without relaxation, so that slaughter is carried out under effective and without delay; the poor positioning of mechanical or electrical means at the head of animals at the time of stunning or death; and the excessive use of equipment, without comfort or precision; and various abnormalities in the method of slaughter; decapitation and bleeding operations carried out with the still conscious animal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot ignore these reports, these documentary evidences and reports related to behaviours in slaughterhouses which, of course, consubstantial to ill-treatment, nor so little to the violence that the workers of these places are subjected to, as a result of exposure to a whole process which is, by itself, extremely violent. This data should bring us all to the debate on video surveillance systems in slaughterhouses, and that is one of the proposals that the NAP brings. England has already implemented this measure following a public consultation in 2017, in which 99 % of English citizens were in favour of the obligation to install closed TV (TV) systems in slaughterhouses. In Spain, the Government has been developing a similar process through the Ministry of Health, Consumers and Welfare, and has already launched a public consultation on the installation of these systems in slaughterhouses to control animal welfare. Scotland has also approved the installation of a similar system. We know, ladies and gentlemen. Members, which is a subject that many prefer to ignore, but, as has already been mentioned by the inspectors of ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ), it is essential that we resume this debate on the grounds of food security, public health and also animal welfare, which is commonly underestimated. We have also brought to the discussion the fact that in recent years we have been confronted with numerous cases of fires on livestock farms resulting in the death of thousands of carbonised animals. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, only in this year of 2021, died well over 5000 charred animals in livestock farms following fires with unknown origin. Repeat: more than 5000 charred animals. In view of the frequency of fires in these farms, we propose to amend the current legislation on the safety regime against fires in buildings, providing for the installation of fire detection equipment and smoke sensors, thus ensuring the safety of employees and animals, in particular in livestock farms...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u3	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u4	... where there is a high density and concentration of animals, as is the case for intensive livestock holdings of classes 1 and 2. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u5	The Bureau is awaiting registrations from the various parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] Mrs Emília Cerqueira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing a matter which is, in fact, recurring in its various meanings. We are very often discussing, almost always at the initiative of the NAP, initiatives linked to what the NAP calls animal welfare. Today, it is the case of a proposal which determines the obligation to install fire detection systems in agricultural facilities and another proposal on closed slaughterhouse television circuits. On these initiatives, it seems to me that, in order to see how unjustified they are to be presented, it reflects the very exposition of reasons presented by the NAP. So the NAP justifies legislation by resorting to facts that the NAP itself claims to be a crime and therefore does not require new legislation to be a crime. What does PAN want? In order to use a system almost demand to monitor every moment through closed television circuits to, in particular, violate the GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation), not taking into account people's privacy rights, rather than doing what should be logical, which would be the strengthening of means to control activity and not commit crimes such as those that the PAN itself points out: the application of electric discharges in areas of the animal's body that are not allowed; the application of beatings with violence, including kicks, pushes and aggressions in sensitive parts of the body; the inefficiency in immobilization of animals in slaughter, in order to avoid any pain, suffering, agitation, injury or unnecessary contusion; the application of animals without their relaxation, in such a way that the slaughter takes place in effective and without delay. These are some of the reasons presented by the NAP itself. That is to say, we have to monitor and implement the law that we have and not to create total control records of everything that is movement of people, goods and animals, under the penalty of living in a regime where freedom is getting less and less, where citizens are getting more and more distant in all their movements and where they are confused who comply with the laws with whom they violate them. It can't be! It is enough to impose on us how we should eat, how we should dress, how we should have our pets in their premises. It is such persecution for everything and for all because they want to impose on us ways of life, confusing these ways of life that they want to impose on us with animal welfare. The PSD will always be in the first line of defense of animal welfare—it is -it is today, as it has always been! — and if there is a violation of the law, this must be monitored. The law must be applied and the prevariators must be punished in an exemplary way. Now, we are constantly creating new entropies to make the system completely blocked and so complex that it is almost impossible to be applied... But there is another issue that never takes into account. We understand the NAP agenda, which does not like the agricultural sector, does not like livestock—even if you think we should all be vegans and want to teach us how to live! — but above all, account is not taken of the costs that this would have on all livestock farms and slaughterhouses,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u8	... especially in small farms, already so punished by the pandemic, so punished by the energy costs, so punished by taxes and also by the ageing and impoverishment of the so-called "Real Country", outside the major centres, increasingly depressed. What are they offered? Instead of offering them conditions for their activity to be boosted, they create more expenses, more entropies. Just think about what is the cost of a fire detection system in the small agricultural holdings of our interior. I, who are Arces de Valdevez, from Peneda-Gerês, am seeing all our small agricultural facilities having to put these systems in the middle of that brewery,... [[Protests from the MP of the Bébiana Cunha PAN.]] ... where often you can only walk, many of them even without electricity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u9	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u10	Many of them do not even have electrical installation systems, the more internal television circuits or fire detection system. Therefore, this is a completely torn life of reality that makes the comparison between intensive and extensive, in a preconceived that the intensity is here and the extension is there. The fact is that we have both intensive and extensive arrangements on farms. As for internal television circuits, really, this is understood only for those who know only the reality of Lisbon or Grande Porto. Those who know the Real Country cannot afford these initiatives. Let us hope that the PS, in the midst of all the pirouettes we have seen that it is doing, for once, take into account the public interest and do not follow these initiatives, because, as we shall see, the Budget will leave us concerned about what the real agenda will be. In fact, these initiatives are not good for anyone, much less for the agricultural sector and for animals. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u11	Mr Norberto Patinho, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In contemporary societies it is today consensual to recognize the nature of animals as sensitive living beings, as well as the need to take action to protect them. In Portugal, the strengthening of animal protection measures in the face of acts of cruelty and ill-treatment has been gathering an ever-wider consensus and is a subject to which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is quite sensitive. In our country, animal welfare legislation has been densified, prohibiting all unjustified violence against animals and laying down rules for its protection. The draft law that the NAP presents to us does not have any significant changes to the bill that it presented in the previous legislature and that was rejected by a significant majority in this House. This bill does not introduce into its articulate any new proposal or measure which will strengthen the rules already provided for in the law in force, for the protection and welfare of animals in slaughterhouses. The explanatory statement refers to serious ill-treatment of livestock in slaughterhouses in several European countries without realising any case in our country. It alerts to a standard of conduct that may occur, and that, if they occur, would consubstantial the failure to comply with standards of welfare and animal protection, not referring to any situation that has happened or was reported in slaughterhouses in Portugal. At no time are there any signs of fragility of the law in force regarding the welfare of animals in the Portuguese slaughterhouses. No problems in the application of the law are mentioned, in particular as regards the health inspection or supervision of the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary Affairs ( DGAV ). The protection of animals at the time of slaughter or killing is covered by European and national legislation and has been considerably strengthened by more demanding rules. It establishes a set of requirements which comply with the responsibility of operators, in discharge operations, handling, accommodation, stuttering and bleeding of animals. The verification of animal welfare requirements at slaughterhouse level is based on technical parameters established for the different operations and on animal-based indicators. Its assessment shall be carried out by personnel and technicians with appropriate training for this purpose and implies a detailed analysis of each animal. The slaughterhouses must have standard operating procedures for each of the operations, as well as monitoring systems that allow corrective measures to be taken if necessary. Each slaughterhouse must have one responsible for animal welfare, which supervises and guarantees compliance with procedures and rules. All these requirements are controlled by health inspectors, present daily in slaughterhouses, and by an animal welfare plan. In the bill now presented, there were no alternatives to video surveillance that are intended to impose, for example, the bet on training professionals, the strengthening of the staff framework or the improvement of working conditions. Video surveillance at the workplace can be collided with workers' rights and freedoms and can only be justified when necessary to pursue legitimate interests and within the limits defined by the principle of proportionality. As regards the draft law determining the installation of closed television circuits in slaughterhouses, it was not properly justified its need and adequacy and its impact and proportionality were not assessed. The economic assessment of the proposed law does not seem consistent, so we do not have a concrete idea of the size of the costs with the implementation of it and there are contradictions in the proposed articulation about those who have access to the images and their purpose. The bill provides for the placement of cameras that affected 24 hours, directly about the workers in the places where they perform their professional activity, monitoring them permanently and remotely. This would mean permanent policing with clear violation of the most basic rights, producing permanent pressure on workers. The vision of the images by the operator would enable the use of the images to control professional performance. Even if video surveillance guarantees better welfare for animals in slaughterhouses, which is not the case, this can never be achieved through the loss of workers' rights. As regards Draft Law No 764 / XIV / 2. the, which determines the obligation to install fire detection system in livestock farms, we agree with the need to install the fire detection system in certain types of holdings, in particular livestock holdings of class 1 and class 2, intensive, with animal detention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u13	Mr Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are facing two interests here today that need to be borne in mind. The first is that of animal welfare, and we are going to talk again today about animal welfare, because this is a matter that has to be in the first line of concern whether it be with pet animals, whether it be with livestock or others, and the second is that of the right to privacy, which is associated with the debate on how far we can go in the logic of extreme surveillance, of the permanent 'eye' on each one, about his behaviour and attitudes. For our part, we have no doubt which side we are on when it comes to animal welfare. We have no doubt about the need for greater supervision, including permanent supervision by the State authority and not by slaughterhouses, to ensure both public health and all management rules and procedures that guarantee acceptable minimum animal welfare. We therefore argue that, in principle, local production and the dynamisation of primary activities of agriculture, livestock and fisheries should be developed - on the basis of food on the national market and that animal production for human consumption must respect the rules of animal welfare and favour extensive production by grazing, which reduces by 50 % the emission of greenhouse gases and the power of animal welfare, just as in the beatings against indiscriminate closure of slaughterhouses that require animals now to make hundreds of kilometers to be slaughtered. But we also believe that there are lines that, with regard to the privacy of each and, in particular, the rights of workers, cannot be exceeded, nor can we now open doors, not even windows, where the surveillance chamber will first enter, and then we do not know what will enter. Moreover, the good consensus has been that the existence of video surveillance in the workplaces already under discussion violates the rights of workers. The proposal presented to us today for discussion is not enough to calm these criticisms. Leaving at the mercy of bosses or entrepreneurs images that can serve as blackmail, threat, pressure, is not acceptable. Having arrived here, we insist on the need to equip the State supervisory structures, in particular the DGAV of the human resources for a permanent presence throughout the slaughter process, from the entry into the slaughterhouse of animals to the dispatch of carcasses. That is, for the Greens, the best guarantee of ensuring animal welfare rules. Not only the highlighted veterinarians can make suggestions for less aggressive procedures, adjusting workers' practices, as they can do in real time. It can be seen that video surveillance images, unless someone shows them later, will not prevent any action that causes unjustified suffering in animals. On the other hand, the presence of specialized technicians in charge of the State authority, with training for awareness-raising and clarification, can do so immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u15	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed here several projects that have to do with animal welfare or, better, with a certain vision of animal welfare either in livestock farms or in slaughterhouses. Preventing cruelty is a purpose for which we agree; however, some assumptions, not to say practically all, that are present in these projects do not seem the correct ones. First, and most importantly, the one that was spoken: the report of RTP And if we were to talk. On the initiative, above all, of the NAP, but also of other parties, I think that we have often discussed this issue and I would rather today, rather than give my opinion, read the opinion of those who know, of those who work with animals every day. I would therefore like to read the opinion of the Order of Veterinary Physicians on this report And if we were to speak, and I quote: "It is therefore with great surprise and some embarrassment that we witnessed in the light, trendy, incoherent and uncultivated form, with which the subject was presented in the Front Line programme transmitted by RTP1 last February 25th. We recognize that this is a complex and controversial issue. That there is not one view and much less the right view. However, and perhaps so, animal welfare deserves serious discussion, transparency, intelligence and, above all, the essential support of science. None of this happened in the so-called program. Do not keep on seeking. ” Further, they continue: "In addition to contempt for scientific evidence, one of the sectors of animal production, which contributes most to the economy and the well-being of Portuguese, was attacked, without even giving an opportunity to respond. Not only producers, as consumers. There was no risk of talking about alternatives to animal production or its role in the preservation of the rural economy, in the occupation of the disadvantaged areas of the interior, in the defense of biodiversity and ecosystems, in the fight against forest fires, in the fair and equitable food of the Portuguese population. Do not keep on seeking. ” I can only say one thing about the position of the Order of Veterinary Physicians: I agree. I think they know more than any of the project authors speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u18	Secondly, I will also give voice to the core of students of Zootechnical Engineering of the Higher Institute of Agronomy, who also know more than any of the authors of the projects, about the report that inspired them. And I quote: "This report sins in its conception and exposure of information, in fact, misinformation. Where she showed interest in gathering hearings and not showing facts. True facts, related to the good practices used in this industry, which are regulated and which are the priority of the producer, because an animal in distress does not produce. It is regrettable the amount of technical and factual errors that are presented as claims to portray reality, revealing a research work and collecting careless information and negligence from those responsible. Do not keep on seeking. ” I can only say one thing: I agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u19	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u20	Of course, Mr. President. I will conclude by saying that it is a pity that some parties, acryptically, choose, purely and simply, to reproduce what they see wrong. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u21	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This morning we discussed two projects that seem quite distinct, one on fire detection mechanisms in livestock farms and another on video surveillance in slaughterhouses. On the first, it seems important to us that this mechanism exists even more when, lately, we have had examples of fires that have victimized so many animals and also put the workers of these places at risk, in addition to the danger of the spread of fires. We'll only have to win in anticipation of this kind of calamity. As for the video surveillance project, this is not the first time we have discussed it and I do not think there have been any substantial changes in understanding this kind of mechanism. Video surveillance cameras are mechanisms of repressive action that do not — sometimes, on the contrary — guarantee animal or human safety and well-being. They often give up the feeling of false security and may incriminate the most fragile part in a situation of oppression. There are not few reports of the use of video surveillance cameras, where it can be used, which account for the use of these mechanisms to hinder those who work. This mechanism will work in order to blame the end of the production chain, without taking into account the hierarchies it implies. We are talking about a rather lucrative business that is contrary to change and transparency, it is true, but the subjects that have been known have been through workers or even researchers and journalists who are going through once again by workers—we see the case of Geoffrey Le Guilcher and Ted Conover. This is also why we cannot give in to the working conditions of those who work here and who, once again, do not decide on errors or correctness of the assembly line, the lack of workers, the lack of means and materials in which the obsession with profit is about not investing. It is often found in these spaces, where we witness situations of animal abuse, issues of poverty, harassment at work, exploitation and failure to comply with basic labour rules, but also public health issues and environmental problems. It will not be coincidence that the pigs in Leiria are the largest polluters of the water resources in that region or that many contaminations by multi-resistant bacteria are associated with industrial meat production. All of this has to have a better answer and this will be as much as you understand what drives these industries and the global treatment of contempt and coercion against any difficulty to profit, whether the environment, workers or animals. The Left Block reaffirms that this is a wrong proposal which does not put the emphasis on the means necessary to guarantee State supervisory resources, minimum investment requirements on the part of companies, the hiring of more people, the recognition of labour rights and the equalization of technicians from the release to veterinarians, the most effective channels of complaint for workers. A chamber that is controlled by those who already hold power and can use it in an intimidating way is a tool with which we do not agree and, in fact, we understand that, with political courage, we can do much more to advance in animal welfare without paying attention to workers and without creating a society where to watch and punish is the motto. So we are in total disagreement with this last project and we are strengthening this position again. I reiterate what I said in March 2018: « Animal welfare will only be guaranteed if those responsible for food industries are publicly, transparent and coherent. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u23	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. For an intervention, Mr João Dias has the floor. Mr. João Dias ( PCP ). — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss two bills, both in the area of animal welfare, which the NAP brings to us, having one of them to deal with the need to install closed television circuits in slaughterhouses. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must have a basic premise in this debate: regardless of the end of animals in slaughterhouses being slaughter, this does not mean that all standards of well-being and ensuring that animals are treated well are not respected. This is a premise that we have to have, that we have to defend and what we have to look at is the way and the motivation that leads to the NAP bringing this issue here. In fact, the problem that the NAP has, as it reveals with the presentation of this project, is not with animal welfare in slaughterhouses. The problem of the NAP is that of the existence of slaughterhouses, because for the NAP if it ended with the slaughterhouses it would end with the problem, even because, looking at the reasons that lead to the NAP bringing here this bill, the first thing we see is that it holds the workers responsible for the slaughterhouses creating the idea that these workers are insensitive and that they also do not deliberately respect the rules and rules that are established and defined in the law. This is an accusation made to workers by the NAP. Then he makes another accusation: he throws a suspicion about the health inspectors. This suspicion is, black in the white, in the bill itself, which says that closed television circuits in slaughterhouses are one, and I quote, "a means of identifying problems of animal welfare or incidents that may not be identified by those on site to be observed;". In other words, health inspectors are not working, they are « observing ». The PAN is questioning and throwing a suspicion on the health inspectors! More, sirs. Members, the NAP uses the Labour Code to justify the use of TV cameras, but I made a huge effort to find, in the Labour Code, an instrument that determines labour relations between workers and employers' identities and found nothing related to animal welfare. Well, the only thing we have to thank the NAP is to introduce ourselves to the countries of the whole world, but we don't know our reality. It is therefore important for us to ensure inspection measures, to provide conditions for DGAV to play its role.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u24	Exactly! [[Protests from the MP of the Bébiana Cunha PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u25	We do not agree with the NAP's position to destroy and dismantle DGAV, creating conditions for animals not to have proper follow-up by the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u26	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u27	As for the bill that involves the installation of fire systems, the NAP objective is not the prevention of fires either, but it is clearly to end small and medium-sized farms. If not, they had not corrected the initial project, because it had the feature of forcing the installation of a fire system to whom it had a pint, a cow or a horse, as if it had 15 000 cow heads, as is the case of Jerome Martins. [[Protests from the MP of the Bébiana Cunha PAN.]] That's what I was asking for. However, it changed and placed only this obligation for Class 1 and Class 2. But let's see what already exists. Madam Member, we need to know the arrangements for the installation of livestock holdings and this already implies, for Class 1 — Mrs, I have here the form for which you apply — the identification of risk factors, in particular the risks of fire and explosion, the identification of technologies to reduce that risk and the means of detection and alarm for risk situations. For Class 1 they are already defined, but for Class 2 they count and value the size of the holding. Mrs Bebiana Cunha tells us here that she will want another form of closure of the farms!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u28	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u29	Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to ask the honourable Member, who also says to know this world outside, how many small farms have burned down in our country. It was the large farms that burned and these already have the conditions to detect fires; the small farms do not have them. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u30	To close the debate, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u31	Mr President, I will try to answer several arguments raised in this debate. With regard to Mrs Emília Cerqueira's intervention, I would like to say the following: in our draft law, the prior approval of the National Data Protection Commission is provided for, and also the transmission of due information to workers about the existence of these systems. On the other hand, in all this debate, from one end to the other, the violence these workers are also subjected to, as a result of the whole process, and also the fact that this power is a way to protect these workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u32	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u33	In fact, Mrs. Emília Cerqueira, in her speech, just mentioned Paul McCartney! Almost could have said that if the slaughterhouses had glass walls, we would all be vegetarians, because what I wanted to bring here was clearly that idea and could have quoted Paul McCartney. [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] With regard to Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I cannot fail to mention the position that she has in relation to a documentary carried out by the RTP — I imagine that the honourable Member has even seen it — in which, clearly, the view of the various perspectives is exposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u34	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u35	In fact, one of the testimonies given in this program is the former Director-General of the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary, who was also an inspector and clearly represents the livestock activity, on which his vision is brought. When the honourable Member says that this programme only has a vision, it is being clearly trendy and it would be important for us to have this debate in a serious way.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u36	It wasn't me who said it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u37	We haven't heard from either of the gentlemen. Members talking about what CCTV systems (closed television circuit) can bring, i.e. greater transparency, public confidence and also protection of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u38	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u39	If there is a desire to strengthen the number of inspectors, if there is a desire to strengthen the monitoring work to be carried out in slaughterhouses, then at the time the government does so, the NAP will be here to follow this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u40	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u41	in this debate which has been completely ignored by the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we remember — and well — what the ASAE inspectors have already brought to the public about the need for an in-depth debate on this subject, on public health issues and, of course, also on animal welfare.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u42	Mrs. Member, please, you have to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u43	The NAP will lower the measure of the CCTV system so that both the ladies and gentlemen. Members may make their contribution, in particular. [[PAN's applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u44	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the first item on our agenda. We now move on to the second point of discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 185 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Consecrates on Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory national holiday ( sixteenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ) and 969 / XIV/ 3. a (PAN) — Consecrates on Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory national holiday, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February. Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There has long been a great carnival tradition among the Portuguese, which is why Carnival or Entrudo represents, in the Portuguese ceremonial calendar, one of the most important festive cycles in our country. However, the Portuguese in general, the tourist operators and the municipalities themselves that make Carnival a high time of their municipality have to hang for one or two weeks to know whether that day is a holiday or not. The Greens therefore reiterate today the need to consider Carnival Tuesday as a mandatory national holiday. And we do so for three reasons and reasons. First, because that day is culturally assimilated by people as a real holiday, which, moreover, has led the Portuguese to plan, over time, an exit with the family, so often even with advance reservations of stays that it is necessary to guard. It is not, in fact, because the school calendar is organized on the assumption that the holiday exists on Tuesday in Carnival and, hence, the interruption of the school year in that period, such holidays in Carnival. It also adds that the GNR itself ( Republican National Guard ) prepares in advance and puts on the ground, invariably during this period, the Carnival Operation. Second, Carnival represents an important factor of economic dynamization in many municipalities, such as the Carnival of Loulé, Ovar, Sesimbra, Canas de Signorim, Madeira, Torres Vedras, Alcobaça or Mealhada, among many others. This is an economic dynamisation that matters to caution, from the outset because it requires significant investments from the municipalities themselves to be made with time and due planning, not understanding, therefore, with uncertainty or indefinition until the government's decision to consider whether or not Carnival Tuesday as a holiday, which usually happens only a few weeks before Carnival. We therefore find it unreasonable that municipalities and tourist operators themselves should be waiting for a government decision to carry out the necessary procedures with a view to an investment that requires months of preparation. Thirdly, with this proposal, the Greens intend to avoid situations like those that lived during the PSD/CDS government, during which they did not consider Carnival Tuesday as a holiday. In fact, during that period, the Government of then, ignoring the economic, social and cultural importance that this date has in the country and with the Portuguese, not only has grossly opposed the social, economic and cultural dynamics of various communities and localities, as it has still created a truly charged and unique situation, of the three-days of Carnival, during which half-country has been stopped and half-country working, as shown by the fact that many of the municipalities have given tolerance on that day. More, the part of the country that worked on those Tuesdays of Carnival did it only in half-gas. And why? Because on that day there was no mail, since the CTT ( Correios de Portugal) were closed and the banks did not get to open. Not to mention the mobility difficulties of those who had to work, since the collective labour agreements of the majority of public transport companies considered and considered on Tuesday Carnival as a holiday and therefore presented a much smaller offer in terms of public transport, i.e., they present their own offer. In addition, following the decisions of the PSD/CDS government, many municipalities expressed their concern because these decisions eventually resulted in a very significant reduction in the number of visitors, with serious economic consequences. This concern was also expressed by the sectors of trade and tourism, claiming serious losses in these sectors. In view of this framework, the Greens Ecological Party proposes an amendment to the Labour Code, in order to include Carnival Tuesday in the list of compulsory holidays. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u46	You have the floor for the NAP, Mr Nelson Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the field of labour rights, a number of cases of discrimination between public and private workers are at present. A few months ago, the NAP brought to the discussion the question of whether it made sense to require a private sector worker to work 40 hours a week and a public sector worker a 35 hours a week. We wanted to put an end to this discrimination, but the PS, the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Liberal Initiative voted against this proposal, perhaps because they think discrimination is justified or then that public sector workers work less hours. This question remains to be clarified. Today, we are giving this Parliament the opportunity to put an end to further discrimination between public and private workers, who are dealing with Carnival Tuesday, a day which the NAP wants to dedicate as a compulsory national holiday. Currently, the Labour Code foresees on Tuesday Carnival as an optional holiday, but this option exists only in the private sector. Let us see: excluding this year, due to the pandemic context we were living, in all the years of this and the previous legislature there was point tolerance for public service workers, whether in mainland Portugal or in autonomous regions. Even in the years of bad memory of the Government of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas, where point tolerance was not granted by the Government, there were hundreds of municipalities, many of them led by PS and PSD, who eventually gave point tolerance to their workers. In private, yes, there is the possibility of Carnival holiday and the situations are very disparate. In the CTT, a company with a public sphere history, Carnival is a day of point tolerance, because the collective agreement of the company so provides, the cost of renunciation of December 24th. But in the case of Altice, former PT ( Portugal Telecom ), with a history similar to that of the CTT, Carnival is not in the collective agreement and therefore in a few years is given tolerance, as in last year, in others not. Then there are a number of companies, such as those in the food retail sector, where the holiday is just a mirage. For the sake of justice, we must end this disparity which leads to many of the private sector workers being treated as second-hand workers with regard to labour rights. We know that in the European Union only Andorra dedicates Carnival as a mandatory holiday. However, in Portugal, Carnival is not any holiday and assumes a very different figure than we see in other countries, being marked by an intense participation of local communities in these same festivities. This celebration, in Portugal, has a remote origin in the thirteenth century, assuming a more traditional character in the area of Cabanas de Viriato and de Podence, but also having a great highlight and fervor in Torres Vedras, in Ovar, in Estarreja, in Mealhada, in Madeira, in Loulé, in Loures and in Sesimbra. In some of these localities, such as Torres Vedras, Carnival is even an instrument of social and political criticism that we should value. Finally, it is important to set up Carnival Tuesday as a mandatory holiday, because this is an economic development factor that could encourage the existence of events to celebrate this date in several areas of the country and thus combat the seasonality of the tourist sector. It is noted that, without a mandatory holiday, the Torres Vedras Carnival brings 305,000 visitors to that town, representing a return of EUR 9 million to the local economy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, have you ever imagined this potential for the dynamisation of the local economies replicated in other locations? When they like to talk so much about the dynamization of the interior, have you ever imagined how dynamizing such a measure can be for locations like Ponce or Viriato Cabanas? It is time to fight these inequalities between the public and the private, it is time to preserve tradition and create incentives for the dynamisation of local economies, it is time, once and for all, to establish Carnival Tuesday as a mandatory national holiday. [[Congrats from the PAN Deputy Bebiana Cunha.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u48	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has 13 compulsory national holidays, to which normally joins a municipal holiday, to which, by agreement, it joins on Tuesday of Carnival, to which half a dozen bridges a year, at which time FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers) likes to take advantage of to strike. It's a party! in this domain, Portugal is well up in international rankings. We're good at having holidays. Certainly not by chance, we are not so good at what it really counts: in the other rankings, that of prosperity, of development, of competitiveness, we are well down there and, what is worse, we are going down. In view of this, what do the ENP and PAN propose? For they propose to turn Carnival's optional holiday into compulsory. A matter which is currently the subject of free negotiation between employee and employer is imposed by the State. Always the State which, not being very interested in the disorder caused to people who need public services, has already granted to a large part of public officials on that date, probably because the State pays wages with the money of others. The others are us. This proposal raises the question: Why? And why now? It is certainly not because Portugal is in a great stage of development. No one also detects a huge social outcry in this sense. The only possible explanation is that the NAP and the ENP think that proposing this measure will bring you electoral dividends, of which they really need.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u50	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u51	It is not enough to make sense and much less to deserve our support. The saying 'It is Carnival no one leads to evil' should not be taken to the letter. There are things about Carnival that must go wrong, and that is what happens with these proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u52	For an intervention, Mr Eduardo Teixeira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss two bills in plenary, one from the ENP and the other from the NAP, with the aim of dedicating Carnival Tuesday as a mandatory national holiday. A subject which is a recurring issue in Parliament and a regular discussion, already several times, in debates and legislative sessions in this House and to date, according to the Labour Code, even though it is not imperative, is already an optional holiday. If it is true that coherence is demonstrated by the Green Party and the PAN, by bringing the matter back to plenary, it is also true that the PSD has always defended the same in recent years, namely that the subject of holidays should always be treated and evaluated in the context of social consultation. We all know that Carnival is an important tradition from the cultural and social point of view and fundamental for praising local economies from north to south, in various municipalities in the country where tradition and celebrations are more incidents, but it is also true that it has always developed within the current legal framework, which is only optional charis. In other words, local interest has prevailed where municipalities have it at municipal holidays, others are in collective bargaining, others in point tolerance, either from the government, or from local authorities, institutions or companies. And, in this respect, so that it can go from optional holiday to compulsory holiday, there is the respect that we must all have for those who represent workers and employers, who are the partners of the government in social consultation. Since the issue is not new, everyone is also aware of the PSD position in this area and, if there is negotiation and agreement with the Government, which decides in the Standing Committee on Social Dialogue, of the Economic and Social Council, everything is very well. All right, because we recognize, in the proposals presented here, the goodness of the argumentation of predictability criteria, especially with regard to other factors, such as school holidays and periods of family rest, and the Carnival Operation, of road prevention usually placed on the ground by the Republican National Guard. Also in terms of economic dynamisation, its global, social, cultural and trade impacts in various communities and localities should be assessed by all partners in social dialogue. So, finally, the way of this mandatory consecration is not through the amendment of the Labour Code, as it is now being appreciated, but it is up to the Government, supported by the Socialist Party, to decide in social consultation, after evaluating with the partners all global social and economic impacts. This is and it will always be our position. And, on Carnival, no one will lead to the harm that, with consistency, we have maintained exactly the same sense of vote that we had in previous legislative sessions in relation to projects identical to those presented today. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u54	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills that today the NAP and the Greens present here are not new, as is not new the position of the CDS on this matter. We understand that Carnival is an important holiday, with municipalities in our country giving it greater relevance than others. So it is in Mealhada, in Estarreja, in Ovar, in Torres Vedras, in Loulé, in Funchal and, still, in other municipalities of the country. In certain areas of the country — but not in all — there is a consolidated tradition of party organization in this period and, given that these parties result in great gains for local economies, the CDS believes that point tolerance can be granted in these areas of the country. We also consider that point tolerance as a measure that the Government, the local public administration and the companies themselves can determine is sufficient to value this holiday, it is not necessary or appropriate to dedicate Carnival Tuesday as a mandatory national holiday. Carnival has long been celebrated within this legal framework: as point tolerance, when and where it is granted and not as a mandatory holiday. Article 235 ( 1 ). the Labour Code, concerning optional holidays, maintains the original wording: "In addition to compulsory holidays, may be observed as a holiday, by means of collective labour regulation or contract of work, on Tuesday Carnival and the municipal holiday of the town. Do not keep on seeking. ” With regard to Tuesday Carnival, the PSD/CDS Government did not introduce any amendments to the law, contrary to what is said in the bills under discussion. The PSD government / CDS understood, yes, not to grant point tolerance to public officials in the years 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, because we lived a time, memory, of great exception and serious economic crisis, in which it was necessary to suspend some holidays. Now, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, holidays are not suspended at the same time as point tolerances are granted. And in these years, Carnival has always been celebrated where it made sense to be celebrated. Many of them were the municipal chambers which granted point tolerance to their employees and their services. Finally, Mr President, I recall that now as before, there is a whole private sector that continues to work on these dates while the public service enjoys point tolerances granted by the Government. So we don't think that the country has to stop because it's Carnival. It's not like that, nor has it ever been like that. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u56	Mr José Soeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Carnival has an expressive tradition in Portugal and, as has already been said, is even the main party in some municipalities, such as Ovar, Torres Vedras, Madeira, among many others. It is counting on the Carnival holiday that organizes the calendar and school holidays. Public transport itself, even for the purposes of business agreement, provides for Carnival's holiday and has on that day half-gas careers. For this reason, it makes every sense to consecrate the Carnival holiday as a compulsory holiday in the Labour Code so that we are no longer dependent on, within a week or two or on the day itself, the Government decrees the holiday or point tolerance, or dependent on the will of the municipalities, or, worse, on the choice of the bosses. In fact, the absence of this right and its consecration in the Labour Code has already allowed a Government of the PSD / CDS, not many years ago, not to recognize the Carnival holiday, thereby stealing one more day's leisure and rest for workers, which was added to the three days' holidays removed from the labour law, under troika pressure in 2012, which it installed in several companies—and not only in companies but then in courts—a conflict on the Carnival holiday and on the application of the uses and customs as a source of right for that holiday. Therefore, recognizing and consecrating Carnival as a compulsory holiday included in the Labour Code is, from our point of view, fair, reasonable and, we would even say, to establish common sense. from there these bills deserve the support and applause of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u58	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to thank the Greens Ecological Party for the scheduling of this debate, because the discussion of the right to rest and leisure time today is very important because we are at a time of great deregulation of working hours and of tremendous family difficulties in the articulation of personal and family life with their professional life. We would also like to remember that, in the hands of the PSD and the CDS, four holidays and three days of vacation were taken away from the workers. Work time was taken, leisure time, and workers had even been taken away from the payment and their right to extraordinary work when they were working on these days which they were supposed to receive as holidays and which in those years did not receive, in essence, a week's work for the bosses. All this was yours and therefore it is not surprising the interventions that have taken place here as it is not surprising the intervention of the Liberal Initiative. We also recall that the replacement of the four holidays was inseparable from the struggle of the workers and the proposals presented by the CFP and that they were translated into the replacement of fundamental rights as the right to four days' rest for the workers. It seems to us that the recognition of the Tuesday of Carnival as a mandatory holiday is of the most elementary justice and of very significant importance for the communities in which this celebration has very important popular and historical roots, but also for many others where it is of course important to ensure a framework of universal recognition of this right for all workers. There is not a single argument from an economic, social or cultural point of view that the right to leisure and rest time is not to be given as a compulsory national holiday. In fact, we have heard here the list of holidays in our country, but, curiously, when, a few days ago, we discussed the replacement of the values of additional work, from the benches that are now pronounced against the Tuesday of Carnival as a mandatory holiday, we have not heard any indignation about the fact that in 2019 the workers have done more than 4700 hours of extraordinary work per week. And we know why. Because it does not cause you any problems that workers continue in this unbridled exploitation. from the PCP side, of course, we follow the objective of the consecration of Tuesday Carnival as a mandatory holiday. We will vote in favour of the Greens initiative, as well as the NAP initiative, on this same recognition as a universal right, because we also know that today it is often dependent on the point tolerance itself, meaning that there are no conditions for the organization of the life of the families themselves. in this sense, the consecration of Tuesday as a compulsory holiday, naturally guarantees the universality of this right, but also guarantees, without any doubt, that workers who have to work this day receive it as a holiday and not as a normal day of work. We also remember here that more than 130 years after the first 1. the May one, effectively continues to be a huge nowadays the struggle for working hours, for the right to leisure and rest time, for the right to articulation of professional, personal and family life. For the PCP, we continue in these struggles: for 35 hours for all workers, for the end of the unregulated work, for decent times, for time to live, for leisure and rest times and for work with rights. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u60	You have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Eduardo Barroco de Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u61	Mr. President, Dear Members: We are here discussing two projects, one from the PAN and one from the Greens Ecological Party on the establishment of the Carnival Tuesday as a mandatory national holiday. In fact, we're talking about Carnival and we thought the PSD camp was on December 4, but after all, they were masked. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u62	Mr. Member, I think you need to have a different can to talk about consistency... [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to you with respect, thank you for listening to me too. I think you need to have a different can to come here and talk about consistency when... Continuation of PSD protests.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u63	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to let the speaker speak, as in fact has happened in all the speeches. Mr. Deputies, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u64	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Carnival is crazy. Take it easy! Mr President, as I was saying to you, there must be a different can to speak of coherence — coherence of the PDS! — and come here to tell us to defend the institution of holidays by means of social consultation when you, in power, have disregarded the rights and demands of workers, withdrawing four compulsory national holidays. [[PSD protests.]] Four mandatory national holidays! Therefore, there is a need for a different can to say that they defend social dialogue. Saying this, the Socialist Party committed itself in its 2015 Election Programme to return these holidays and contributed to it in 2016. What we're discussing here is something else, is if an optional holiday like Carnival should become compulsory. The Socialist Party has already had the opportunity to discuss this in previous years, had the opportunity to show its position, which has not changed. But it is necessary to explain why it has not changed and what makes us different from the arguments of the other sides, in which some are in favour of this proposal and others are not. First of all, the Socialist Party has not entered this priority into its electoral programme and, therefore, has not presented itself to the voters in this way. Secondly — and I think that is also relevant — today we do not feel a cry for the compulsory national holiday and, more than that, we believe that the instruments currently available are instruments that allow the Carnival to be celebrated. They allow the celebration of Carnival the instruments of collective regulation of work, through labor contracts, through municipal holidays and through what we have always defended, as we defend even when the PSD and CDS did not want to assign it, to point tolerance in Carnival. Therefore, from this point of view, we are not against the Carnival celebration, on the contrary, we understand its relevance, its cultural relevance, its social relevance and its political relevance as well. We also understand that we need to respect rest and working time. in this we do not differ from the arguments on the left, which it is important to allow workers to have the right to rest and the enjoyment of their lives. What distinguishes us are other things. For example, just a short time ago, the Liberal Initiative Member said that we were on the holiday ranking, forgetting, for example, to count the rest times that workers are entitled to, as a result of their holidays, because that ranking is no longer appropriate for the Portuguese right. He was saying... [[I haven't said anything yet!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u65	You want to talk about everyone? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u66	Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you're very nervous. Take it easy, which is still missing until December! Just to conclude — and because I think it is important — I would say that I also find what distinguishes us from the left. This is not about disregarding Carnival, it is about considering what Carnival is in its relevance in specific localities, in concrete regions and with concrete traditions. We understand, of course, that in Portugal there is a wide tradition, with the traditional forms of the Entruder, such as in Lazarim and in Power, for example, and in other less traditional or more carnival regions, such as Ovar, Mealhada or Madeira, we understand that this is relevant to their local economies and local cultures, but the truth is that this does not necessarily transform it into a national tradition. All arguments — and are positive — that can be used for the national Carnival holiday could be used, for example, for the celebration of Saint John or Saint Antony or Saint Peter, which have no less popular membership, no less economic relevance or less social relevance. Therefore, what is involved here is also to respect the regional identity of each of the localities, which considers that their period of commemoration and rest is different from that of the side, which choose other periods for different reasons. Thus, today, we believe that we have perfectly legitimate instruments at our disposal and that they allow ourselves to do what we believe is important: respect local identity, respect their traditions, also respect workers and their rights. We can continue to do so in this way, attributing point tolerance...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u67	Ah, after all! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u68	... and allowing, either through the municipal holiday, either through the instruments that are already available from the point of view of the Labour Code, that there is this commemoration. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u69	Mr Eduardo Teixeira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I did not intend to speak again, but, after hearing the Socialist Party's Member, it seemed to me that, in his speech, he was not convinced at all. But I want to say that this House requires seriousness and dignity in its interventions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u72	And you know perfectly well that between 2011 and 2015 — I was a Member at that time — the holidays, not this one, were suspended because of the Socialist Party taking us to bankruptcy... [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] ... and an external intervention was needed in Portugal. Seriousness is therefore required in this debate. Mr President, I thought, from the initial words of your speech, that I was going to vote in favour of the projects of the PAN and DOS Verdes, but it seems that they live obsessed, only and only,... [[Protests by PS MP Eduardo Baroque de Melo.]] ... by the positions of the Social Democratic Party, which consistently, yes, defends this matter, because it was only a suspension of the other holidays, which have already been restored. This one, no! It is another matter, yes, in line with social consultation. I would also like to tell Mr José Soeiro and Mrs Diana Ferreira that we have raised this issue here, in coherence also with the period that was at that time. It is good to remember that there were several holidays that had to be suspended by intervention of the troika, but have already been restored.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u73	For us!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u74	This holiday was withdrawn, it is optional and deserves, in social consultation, where some of your trade unions and confederations sit, be discussed with the Socialist Party. [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] I also want to tell you that if this matter was so important at the time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u75	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u76	... from 2015 and until 2019, they should, because they were part of the management, put this in the book of charges for the Socialist Party to solve this issue. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u77	Thank you, sir. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u78	If this was the red line, they should have defended it and not come now, blindly, to throw the problems on the governments of the PSD and the CDS, who ruled Portugal with great difficulty, taking it out of bankruptcy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u79	You have the floor for the end of the debate, Mr José Luís Ferreira, DOS Verdes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: At the conclusion of this debate, I would like to make some comments on some of the things that have been mentioned here. We know that, for the Liberal Initiative, there would be no holidays, neither Carnival nor any other,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u81	That was a good idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u82	...and, if possible, there wouldn't be any weekend. And then, if there was no holiday, it was the liberal paradise! The honourable Member asked: "Why now? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, if it is for the year, does the Liberal Initiative feel it is appropriate for Carnival to become a compulsory holiday? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u83	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u84	Then the PSD always talks about the question of social consultation and I think that this required careful reading of some of the norms of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which is very clear as to who makes the laws: whoever makes the laws is the Assembly of the Republic, it is not the social consultation! The partners of social dialogue must be heard, as in fact, during the public assessment of this diploma. Now, one thing is right, who approves the laws is the Assembly of the Republic and not social consultation. In addition, Mr Eduardo Teixeira, I am surprised that the PSD says there was a suspension on holidays because when we voted here for your replacement the PSD did not vote in favour. So it wasn't suspension...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u85	It was political will!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u86	... I repeat, it was not suspended, and we don't owe it to the PSD, because the PSD did not vote in favour of the replacement of holidays. [[PEV applause.]] Finally, as far as the Socialist Party is concerned, it says that it respects cultural identity, but will vote against, as it has done in the past. And I think it was important... [[PSD protests.]] Yeah, you're damnable! You're damnable! I'm saying it in a critical tone. Even I think it was important to hear what the authors of the Socialist Party, the PSD and the CDS who are in the municipalities and make Carnival an important moment of their council, should ask them if they are well to stay a week or two waiting for the government to decide whether or not it is on holiday. There is still another note that I wanted to mention, which has to do with public services and the difficulty they have in scheduling their demands. For example, a court does not know whether to make inquiries for the Tuesday of Carnival, because it does not know whether or not it is holiday; to mark consultations, hospitals are waiting to know whether it is holiday or not, information that usually comes only one or two weeks earlier. Then we also wanted to avoid the clown that was Carnival during the PSD/CDS government, in which half Country was working and half Country stayed at home. [[PSD protests.]] Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u87	Thank you, sir. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u88	Mr. President, just to say that until the end of the legislature, I still wish to realize why every time I speak of the PSD / CDS government, of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas, there is so much indignation in these benches... [[PSD protests.]] It's because it was very good! It's because it was very good! And then Mr. Deputies comes to talk about the government before the PSD. It's interesting! [[PEV and PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u89	We thus arrive at the end of the debate on this subject, very exciting, by the way. We will move on to the third point of our agenda, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of Bill No. 581 / XIV / 2. a ( Citizens) — Prohibition of dog racing in Portugal, 219 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the prohibition of the most known race dogs by race of chickens, 783 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — prohibits the racing of chickens and other animals of the canidae family as practices contrary to the natural behavior of animals and 970 / XIV/ 3. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Determines the prohibition of racing dogs for competitive purposes. For the opening of the debate, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 21,000 signatories of the citizens' legislative initiative, promoted by the SOS Animal Association, today represented, to whom I comply, as well as numerous other animal protection associations and more thousands of citizens in our country. In June 2016, Vision magazine published a report entitled « The Secret World of Chicken Races », which stated that « behind the sprints there is an opaque universe of training with electric shocks, doping and a brutal wear ». Several reports have shown how chicken races in Portugal hide a macabre reality, inserted in competitions that, in some regions of the country, involve money, animal abuse, and oppose all the advances achieved in the protection of pets in our country. On the other hand, the fierce competition and wear that animals are subject leads to hundreds of animals being discarded and abandoned, either because they are no longer fast enough, because they have hurt themselves in training or competitions or because they have lost their value and no longer serve the only purpose for which they want to: win races and, above all, earn money. They are animals that end up being collected by the citizens, by associations, by collection centres in areas where, precisely, these types of competition take place, in a life course marked precisely by the traumas, injuries and ill-treatment to which they have been subjected. In addition to this, it adds the use of anabolic steroids, ephedrine, arsenic, stricnin and other substances that research published in the Portuguese press and reports and reports from non-governmental organizations have been reported. We are also told about training with animals tied up in the clouds or placed in racing rugs, so that they are forced to run at high speeds, or using electric shocks to stimulate slow animals to run faster. at the end of two years, the truth is that these animals are completely worn out, reducing their average life expectancy and unable to participate in these competitions, being easily discarded by their owners. The recent report on the hidden side of the chicken races, the maltreatment, violent training and, even, the traffic in blood associated with animals that cease to serve this activity, has made the extraordinary spectacle that, by the way, some of you in this Chamber so much appreciate. We are all familiar with this reality. This is why it is high time to stop these kinds of competitions that at no cost contribute to a country that must respect animals and have a consistent legal arrangement, in line with its own legal status that recognises the living beings with sensitivity — in fact, with a legal status approved in this same Assembly of the Republic. And today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have this opportunity. Contrary to what they usually say, it is not a matter of taste, it is not a question of urban world versus rural world. It is a matter of respect and sensitivity to pets, those who so quickly say that they are our best friends, as soon as we allow them to be exploited, abused, abandoned, or even left to starve, as in the case, that they become public, of the animals of João Moura and which generated strong social indignation. The projects presented today and the civic mobilization around this issue that brings us this legislative initiative of citizens, with more than 21,000 signatures, demonstrate well the extreme cruelty of dog races, their anachronism and the will that exists in Portuguese society to stop this business and this cruel activity. It remains to be seen whether the other political forces will close their eyes again, whether they will ignore the voice of these thousands of citizens and the rights of animals that, day after day, training after training and running after the race, are discarded. And, no, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not close this debate around the urban world versus the rural world, because it does not raise us and, less so, does not help to protect animals in our country. [[PAN's applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u91	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating each of the 21 306 people who, with their mobilisation, have been able to present to this House one of about half a dozen legislative initiatives of citizens we have even arrived. This brings us greater responsibility in discussing this matter and also the seriousness of listening to the proponents. We've heard the voices of veterinary doctors here this morning. Well, we heard in the Commission a veterinary doctor from a nationally recognized association that confirms that this type of race is contrary to animal welfare and is a way of instigating animals violently to behavior that does not happen unless there is this use. Chicken races take place in an organized way in countries such as Australia, Ireland, Macao, Mexico, Spanish State, United Kingdom and United States of America, where there are professional tracks and betting systems similar to those of horse races. in these countries, the chicken races carry violent training, combined with a large number of abandonments, or because at the start the animals do not have the desired characteristics and speed, or because they are injured, being unable to run. One extreme case was known in 2006 in England : for 15 years, 10,000 animals will have been killed only because they did not have the desired characteristics for the race, although they are healthy animals. In Portugal there are also chicken races, but in amateur records. We speak of at least six municipalities in the country, from north to south, with track for chicken races, integrated into a national championship. We also speak of more than 20 galgueiros, located from north to south, registered on lists of international betters. In addition, we know this reality better thanks to two reports already mentioned here, such as that of the public newspaper in Famalicão, where the municipality did not even know about the running and had not arrived at any licensing request. Journalists have not yet identified the presence of veterinary doctors on the site. In 2016, another report, in Vision magazine, depicts « an opaque universe of training with electric shocks, doping and a brutal wear of animals». The suspicion of doping of animals is so widespread that, according to the magazine, the race organizers themselves in Portugal consider the introduction of anti-doping tests.We are talking about 2016. The brutal physical wear to which the animals are subject has also been reported, since in « the United Kingdom and Ireland, the chickens run up to 4 / 5 years. In Portugal, just over two years of age they already are so worn out that they are retired». The most recent case of maltreatment that came to us, through public opinion, was related to the well-known yellow and tauromáquic João Moura, in whose house were found 18 hens in a state of extreme undernutrition and dehydration that shocked the country. This case also led to the seizure of animals and the setting up of a trial to the knight. Dog races are against legislation and animal welfare protection policies. It is evidence that violent training, doping, widespread ill-treatment and a large number of abandonment of animals must be of great concern to us. This project aims at mitigating these ill-treatments and also aims to contribute to the reduction of the number of illegal bets, a common practice in the race of dogs in Portugal. It does not seem to us that there is any reason why we should not move forward this time, to ensure not only compliance with animal welfare legislation and legislation with regard to illegal betting but also to move forward towards a society that is more friendly and more protective of animals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u93	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues did not register.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by thanking all citizens who have mobilized to bring this issue to debate and, in particular, to SOS Animal for the initiative. We know that dog races are inseparable from certain practices that cost life to animals that participate in or reduce their average life expectancy. There is an excess of animal breeding, as well as abandonment, when they are not suitable for racing, it is common to be kept in inadequate facilities, there is use of training methods using force and violence, resulting in injuries and fractures, and there are cases of doping. I cannot but quote Carla Amado Gomes when she tells us that « Sports, although traditional, must be reviewed according to the changes in dominant social conceptions. Animals are companions of man in the adventure of life and, as such, and in their condition as sensitive beings, must be protected from practices which, unnecessarily, harm their integrity'. The aim of this project is not to prevent dogs from running freely, on an appropriate location, but only those race organised for competitive purposes, for which animals have a specific training, which involve an bait and which we know put at risk the well-being of the animals involved.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u95	Mr João Gomes Marques, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are once again debating the lack of knowledge and distortion of facts with the obsessive aim of ending sports and recreational activities with canides and changing the animal nature itself. With the bills under discussion, the PAN and the Left Block simply want to ban the running of dogs and punish those who promote them, but they end up forbidding any canyde race induced by human beings. in these bills, they state that, and I quote, «in the case of dogs and within this theme, it is their interest to run freely and not under human coercion». Even in its articulation, it is understood as « as a dog race all the events involving competitive and / or recreational racing incitement». Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with these approved proposals, can an innocent child play with his little dog throwing balls or sticks at him so he can run and pick them up? Or could anyone practice running or jogging, for sporting, recreational and even sanitary purposes, leading his dog to follow him in the race, induced by the human being and, by the way, against the dog's will, also be condemned to the constant penalties in these bills? This is absurd, it's enormous! As for the bets that they say exist in the dog races, they are already forbidden by law, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. That is why it remains a challenge to denounce and put an end to this illegal one, as our duty as Members of Parliament is. Therefore, the law applies. To end the races with the aim of putting an end to these illegalities and abuse of animals, particularly dogs, which the PSD also vehemently condemns, reminds me of the famous popular agagio: « Does the donkey give a coice? His leg is cut off». That's right, in this case! Instead of penalizing the violent and oppressive behaviors against animals, sports races or other recreational or aid activities are prohibited, with animals that have this natural and genetic fitness, such as chickens for racing or other dogs for guards, guides, for search and rescue and for combating crime. We all know that high-competitive sport is extremely demanding and implies some sacrifice. Will the PAN and the Left Block, as they propose in these bills, propose the prohibition of high-competitive human sport? It is not, dear Members, because there are offenders who must end a play or sports activity. There are also those in human sports. And what happens? They are penalized, they are taken away the merits and prizes, they are punished and punished sports and judicially, whoever they are. That is how it must happen in this case too. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we reaffirm that this proposed legislation is incoherent and unnecessary, it is an attack on animal nature and something that raises serious doubts about what is animal welfare, to which we all have to respond, but with good sense and equity. Therefore, the PSD does not follow these bills. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u97	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are today discussing four initiatives aimed at banning chicken races and, in some of them, all dogs in Portugal. One of them, in particular the bill of the Left Block, speaks in its title, in prohibition, but then, in its articulation, the objective is the same and of course: it is the prohibition of them, as in all other initiatives. What we have once again come to know is the reality of many other countries, in this case Australia, Argentina, the United Kingdom, finally, is all this reality that is imported to justify a reality that is not ours. That is what concerns us, that is, on the basis of realities that are not ours, which are completely different from ours, if we are to prohibit what happens in Portugal. It is important to understand the reasons, what are the reasons behind the presentation of these initiatives. Two of them are very clear: one of them is to understand that the race of dogs, in this case of yellow dogs, contradicts what is the natural behavior of animals; another, also present in the various bills of law that we have here under discussion, is the fact that there are unwarranted abuse of animals. What we must also see is that legislation already exists in Portugal, which prevents animal abuse and prohibits certain behaviours with animals. The truth is that the law already exists. In other words, the Criminal Code in Article 387. the, already clearly defines the behaviors that should be punished in relation to pets. So the law already exists! And then, as has already been said and is widely known, media cases that came to the public have proved that the law that exists works. So, what we have to ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the following: Now, if the law exists and works, why are we going to ban these activities? Because one thing is guaranteed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to ban twice no longer prohibits. What we have, therefore, is to respond to needs, including regulation and supervision. That's why the ban here comes about, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be frank, it is for the sake of taste and not because there are objective reasons for banning each other. in this sense, what is the scope of these initiatives? There are other activities with animals, particularly dogs, and it is important to understand what happens to them if these initiatives make the way, including training and the practice of agility of dogs. What happens to obedience training?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u99	End it all!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u100	What happens to training and using dogs in search and rescue?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u101	The dogs are to be on the couch! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u102	What happens to dogs in training and use in identifying drugs? What happens, for example, to dogs used to support blind people and people with disabilities? Mrs. Members, this also runs counter to the natural behaviour of animals, so we must understand the scope of these measures. Therefore, the question that the CFP raises is whether we need to regulate, because prohibiting dog races is, in our view, a mistake, because what we need is to have these activities properly regulated, properly monitored and that is what we demand, that is, that the SEPNA (Naturity and Environment Protection Service) and DGAV are able to be present in these activities and to fight all the frauds that can happen, because they can happen in what is regulated, but if it is unregulated, then we enter a full jungle. So what matters is to comply with the law, it is to create conditions for it to be fulfilled. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u103	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on matters involving animal welfare is becoming more important every day, as we have already said. In this way, today, in addition to projects submitted by three parties, we have a project of the initiative of more than 21,000 citizens involved with this goal. I would therefore like to begin by welcoming each of the subscribers of this bill, for their contribution to the deepening of our participatory democracy. It is time to understand that democracy goes a long way beyond the formal act of voting on the day in progress, and there is much that everyone can do within the framework of the Constitution and the law. The fight for animal welfare, which causes the Greens to embrace from the first hour, in addition to fair, is making an important contribution to the development of our democracy and even to deny the idea that people do not participate or participate. We believe it is important to distinguish the wheat from the juicy. The proposals that are being debated today announce that they wish to achieve the objective of ending animal suffering in various ways caused by practices already considered illegal, besides because they are violent and disrespectful of the most basic rights of animals. There will be those who say that they will thus open the doors to prohibit practices that do not have these characteristics and practices considered traditional involving animals without causing them harm or harm. The Greens believe that we should start somewhere. We do not confuse those who treat animals with respect, without causing them pain or suffering without need, those who, relieved by the vice of the game and competition, motivated by their particular character or economic interests, make them ill-treatment, violence, abandonment, their reprehensible way of life. We will not say that they are all the same and that participating in one of these races involves a treatment of animals that we cannot accept, just as we do not do this debate on the basis of sensational news or isolated cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u105	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u106	But we recognize that the legal void that is created allows abuse and impunity, which worries everyone who suffers from seeing an animal suffer. And we know more: although in recent years there has been a path, which we have valued, in the defence of animal welfare, the means of state structures are not dimensioned to make proper monitoring and monitoring. The means and structures of the State do not follow the evolution of the animal welfare law and it is increasingly clear that it fails to include money in the State budgets to ensure the change of mentality and the construction of a vision that animals are not things, they are not objects and deserve the respect of all those who hold them, because they are part of our lives. That is why we are afraid that these funds will actually correspond with more means of the state and local power, so that the discussions we have here and the laws we approve here will have those who apply them and those who enforce them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u107	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u108	Caring for an animal must always be an act of affection, it must involve respect, it must be dignified. And so, as always, the animals will double the attention we give them. That is the guarantee we believe that it is necessary to ensure this. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u109	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the citizens who present this citizens' legislative initiative, to whom several initiatives from other parties were then joined. The citizens' legislative initiative is always a noble form of citizen participation, whether it agrees with its content or not. I wanted to leave this respect because I think it is our duty, and I would even dare say that it is a pity that it is no longer used in Portugal and that we have no more opportunity to discuss citizens' legislative initiatives. That said, and what we are discussing today has to do with dog races, chicken races, I think the first question we have to deal with is what the problem we actually have, what its size is, because we know that chicken races are, in fact, a large-scale professional reality in some countries. It's not the Portuguese case. In the Portuguese case, we have some amateurs who are engaged in these races, but before we think about importing solutions it is appropriate to understand the size of the problem we have and from this point of view does not result from the initiatives a finished portrait. What results from them is what has been reported by Vision magazine, which is opposed by many of those who devote themselves to these practices, and by the familiar « João Moura case », which has already been mentioned here, which is already, and well, punished. It was detected and what happened there is not only forbidden, it is crime. in these cases, there may be a question of supervision, but these cases are already, well, crime and are already punished by the penal law portuguese. So that's not what we're dealing with, we're dealing with the other cases. The cases of cruelty and ill-treatment are already criminalized and we may be dealing with other cases. And then I draw attention because what is said is that "this violates the dog's natural behavior, which is to run freely. This leads us to a question that I would say is more philosophical and requires more reflection, because the emergence of the dog has to do with a man's action on the natural behavior of another animal. That's how the species came about. So what is the dog's natural behavior? I think this deserves a little more reflection than just saying that all races must be banned because they are cruel in themselves because they violate the dog's natural behavior. This is what I think is underlying the initiatives and this assumption, based on a vision article, is a assumption that I cannot honestly accept. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u111	You now have the floor for an intervention by the PS, Mrs Lúcia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's initiatives under discussion in this House on the ban on chicken races deserve the greatest attention of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. With socialist governance, we have more protection and animal welfare, and this is an example of the many measures approved. In Portugal, the chicken races are usually an activity that complements the hunting activity, and the chickens, in racing scenario, are fast, powerful and elegant dogs, in search of the trophy, the victory. But they are also animals that appreciate comfort and rest on the sofa, next to their owners. They're family dogs. And if it is true that the chicken races, mostly, are more recorded in rural areas, it is also no less true that exhibitions, contests, agility tests for pets happen more in urban areas. However, competitions and exhibitions of pet animals have a legal framework under existing legislation by Decree-Law No 314/2003, which provides for the licensing of the powers conferred on the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary. And, following the decree-law of decentralization of competences, the same are assigned to the municipalities, through Decree-Law No 20 / 2019, while the galgos races do not have legal framework within the framework of the aforementioned legislation, nor do they have legal framework of the galgos races in the context of commercial shows by regulating the sale of tickets. Many of these races are integrated into local programs and parties and open access spaces, in some regions of the country, such as Alentejo and Minho, which meet the traditions and culture of the territories, and are also often promoting activities of local economic activity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the initiatives under discussion are based on reports of doping and maltreatment of the chickens. However, it is important to clarify that animals that do not have competitive fitness are removed from the races, and, given their characteristics, because they are docile and sweet dogs, are welcomed as pets. And the argument that chickens are used for entertainment or entertainment of people is in some way also applied to pets, which are often used in contests or exhibitions of beauty or even in agility tests. However, it should be pointed out that authorisation to carry out chicken races must be accompanied by a veterinary physician, thus defending that aspects related to identification, health care and, where appropriate, anti-doping checks are safeguarded. Moreover, practices of abandonment and abuse of pets are already criminalized by Law No 69 / 2014. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, aware of the progress of scientific research, recognizes that it is now indisputable that animals have the capacity to feel and manifest suffering and the evolution of societies - leads us to increasing sensitivity and care in the most varied dimensions, both in environmental matters and in nature protection, and, of course, also increases the sensitivity to animals, especially the concern with their well-being, attentive to all the dimensions of man/animal binomy. The violation of human rights and animal rights, the exploitation of human beings, are unfortunately condemnable practices throughout the world. It is through education, reporting, good practices and training that we achieve the civilizational goals. Fundamentalism is often counterproductive. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u113	For a new intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Quite quickly, I want to say that this plenary uses science as you like. There is a medical-veterinary science that deals with animal welfare and it is about this medical-veterinary science that we, in our article 2. the — which Mr John Gomes Marques certainly did not read in point 3, we indicated that « does not include in the previous issue activities carried out in respect of the animal's natural behavior. Do not keep on seeking. ” So let us be a little serious in this discussion, instead of saying that children will no longer be able to run with their animals, because that is simply not true. [[Protests by PSD Members Emília Cerqueira and João Gomes Marques.]] The arguments we have to bring to this Plenary must be truly based, as it is mirrored in these bills. As for the issue of high-competitive human sport, I ask you, Member of the Commission, if you have already asked any galgo if you intend to do high-competitive sport. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u115	Mr Paulo Leitão, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the authors of the citizens' initiative that is currently under discussion, a tool that, increasingly, should be encouraged. The proposed bills aim to prohibit the running of dogs in Portugal, basing this need on abuse, abandonment and medical practices harmful to animal health and welfare. However, if we compare the practices that support the projects presented with existing legislation, we easily find that the practices described are already punished by the legislation in force. There may be situations that do not have timely drafting changes, in order to ensure that there are no possible interpretations that allow the non-punishing of the wrong practices that are described in the explanatory statements of the draft laws under consideration. It should be remembered that the imposition of the prohibition must be the last step to be taken, only when all the others have proved ineffective for the resolution of the practices we intend to ban. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, to conclude, may rely on the PSD to prohibit practices that serve as support for the bills under discussion, but not to prohibit, in an unfounded manner, the running of dogs, as is intended by the authors of the projects. In other words, they count on the PSD to ensure the punishment of those who abuse animals, abandon them and practice medical acts harmful to the health and welfare of animals. For the ban on dog racing they cannot count on the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u117	With no more inscriptions, we can move on to the closure.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u118	Mr President, the NAP had signed up and asked the Liberal Initiative to give in time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u119	All right. Then you have the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It should be clarified, of course, that animals are not sportsmen. In contrast, unlike the human being and other species, the animals do not organize themselves to race—for example, the birds organize themselves on a plane to fly. So there is an anthropocentric view, in a philosophical debate—and there is something here that we are in agreement with the CDS! There is indeed a much deeper legal-philosophical debate, because we cannot use animals to our delight, disregarding their true genetic identity, which is certainly not to run races or even illegal bets on these same races. You cannot be confused or quarrel with those who also accompany us in your homes. We are not talking about creating a regime on abuse or abandonment, a punishment for the abandonment of animals, but, rather, filling a gap that exists in our legal system. How are we going to monitor or enforce a law that does not exist? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u121	For dog fights, which are prohibited, the organisation, assistance, participation, illegal collection of bills and doping of animals is also called for. However, in dog races we are talking about a market and an absolutely obscure and illegal business, a reality that is not controlled.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u122	Let's ask the search and rescue dogs if they want to do the search and the rescue!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u123	So I ask you, honourable Member, how does it monitor a law that does not exist,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u124	There's no what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u125	... that we are not able to enforce and, more, something that many, in this house, still praise? Oh, my God! To conclude, these races do not in any way ensure the welfare of animals and cannot be confused with jokes. This, yes, is a distortion of the facts, because we are not talking about the same reality. We must make this clear: we do not intend to limit activities such as agility, but rather cruel, dark and illegal activity in our country. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u126	Having concluded this point, we will move on to the fourth point of our agenda, which deals with the final report of the Parliamentary Investigation Committee on the losses registered by the New Bank and charged to the Resolution Fund. For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to this CPI ( Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry ) on the New Bank, I want to talk about responsibility and propaganda. The responsibility for dismissals in a financial institution lies primarily with its administration, but it is no less true that the independence and diligence of supervisors can prevent or mitigate the consequences of such dismissals. This CPI has made it clear again that the Banco de Portugal de Consâncio and Carlos Costa have not been able to avoid the enormous losses that the Portuguese continue to have to pay. We cannot excuse the policy of rotating doors between the central bank and consultants, nor the unbelievable culture of secrecy in the Banco de Portugal, nor the capture of supervision by political power. Above all, we cannot excuse the lack of courage of those who have a mission to pursue the common good. Each of these factors contributed, in its own way, to the sense of impunity of the offenders in the financial system. Now, I'm going to talk about propaganda. The Left Block intended, with the parade of arrogant or insolent debtors in this ICC to create the idea that all entrepreneurs are corrupt or dishonest. The Liberal Initiative wants to dismantle this narrative. The overwhelming majority of our entrepreneurs are accomplished. More: they are responsible for investment, job creation, exports and tax revenues. It is the companies and the people who work in them the driving force of our economy. Those who want to say otherwise, I repeat, an example of a statistic economy that has produced prosperity — I say no more freedom — for their citizens. This ICC has placed responsibilities on administrators, supervisors, auditors and debtors, but it must also be denounced the outrage of attacking all the private initiative that the Liberals will always defend, because without private economic initiative there is no individual freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u128	Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the start of the Commission of Inquiry into the New Bank that the NAP said it wanted to focus on BES Angola and on the issues of conflicts of interest. At first glance, the question of BESA ( Banco Espírito Santo Angola) might seem not useful to explain why we are injecting millions into the New Bank, but it is not. According to Deloitte, BES ( Banco Espírito Santo )’s negotiations with BES Angola suffered a loss of at least EUR 194, 4 million, which was relevant to public money injections in the New Bank. Trying to figure out how these losses arose, how toxic BES Angola was and to find out what was about to be discovered were the missions that the NAP did not extend in this Investigation Board. Thanks to the NAP, the Commission's Final Report found some aspects that led to the conclusion that the Banco de Portugal, either with Consâncio or with Carlos Costa, has failed on the whole line in regard to BESA. As far as BESA is concerned, we have not been able to assert our intentions on two points: firstly, we have failed to make it clear that, as stated in the Costa Pinto report, BES said that it bought the public debt of Angola for political reasons, thus putting itself in a situation of enormous risk only to please the cleptocratic regime of José Eduardo dos Santos ; secondly, we wanted Rui Pinto to come to this Parliament to present information that he had about the deviation of BES 600 million to BESA, through the creation of purely instrumental companies, fictitious deposits and bank transfers to offshore like the British Virgin Islands and Seychelles, and about BES Congo, a mysterious bank held by BESA, by Álvaro Sobrinho and Hélder Bataglia, which has never been mentioned in the BES accounts reports. The Committee of Inquiry could have used investigative powers from the judicial authorities, which are recognised by law, but did not, because the PS and CDS Members who voted against and the Liberal Initiative Member who abstained showed that not only did they want to use these powers as they preferred to read reports, which is regrettable and diminishes this Parliament. Finally, we still have the question of conflicts of interest. in this Commission, as « Olivia Patroa, Olivia Costureira », we saw Centeno, Governor of Banco de Portugal, criticising a report by the Court of Auditors criticizing the action of Centeno, Minister of Finance. More surreal is impossible. Even with this surrealist scene of Centeno, we also saw the PCP and the Left Block handing over to the Socialist Party and rejecting the NAP proposal that mentioned the need, on behalf of the independence of Banco de Portugal and a better supervision, to devote a period of disgust to the transfer of political positions to positions in the administration of Banco de Portugal, as already foreseen for the commercial bank since last year, on the proposal of the NAP. Finally, there are two doubts which have arisen in the air and which have not been clarified by the Commission of Inquiry, which are related to the possible entry of the State into the New Bank's capital next year, due to the deferred tax assets regime and the safety network agreed with the European Commission, which may involve an injection of EUR 1.6 billion. Any of these situations have a potential impact on public accounts which may condition short- and medium-term budgetary options. Therefore, in the field of specialty, we will propose that any of these things should be the subject of decision by the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u130	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Carneiro, from the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The main purpose of this Committee of Inquiry was to analyse the process of selling the bank and its management after the sale. They wanted some, afraid of the conclusions, that if it were later in time, to divert the focus from the essential. The conclusion, however, is obvious and is contained in the Commission report : The sale of the New Bank and its contractual conditions as defined by the Banco de Portugal and the XXI Constitucional Government have not allowed the best safeguard of the public interest. from the contributions of the Court of Auditors it is concluded that the contract did not minimize the impact on the sustainability of public finances, nor did it reduce the moral risk, thus preventing the defence of taxpayers. These conclusions have long been perceived by public opinion, although the contract is not known as the PSD wanted. Even considering the conditions imposed by Brussels on the sale of the bank, the Commission of Inquiry factually concluded that the Portuguese Government was unable to reverse the central aspects of the conditions imposed by the European authorities and, although the bank was not liquidated with the sale, the public interest was not adequately protected. These are the exact conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry which call into question the intervention on the sale by the Government of António Costa and Mário Centeno on that date. Since the sale, the State has allowed the quota capital mechanism to be virtually used by the management of the New Bank. The Government of António Costa knew that the New Bank would use almost all of the 3, 89 billion euros, although it never told the Portuguese, on the contrary, we well remember. Mr. President and Mr. Members, the Socialist Party throughout the Commission tried to create a parallel between the 2017 sales and the 2014 resolution, but there is no parallel. Just as there is no political fraud in the resolution. Otherwise we see: in 2014 the resolution occurred in an emergency context, in view of facts that were unknown, and three days was the time that the public authorities had to prevent settlement. Already on sale in 2017, the Government of António Costa and Mário Centeno had at least many months, or years, to find a solution. The Commission's report on the the thesis of political fraud resulted from the PS's agreement with the left and the best argument that dismantles this great falsehood lies lies in the statements of the then rapporteur of the report, Mr Socialist Party, who, contrary to his bench, said that there was no political fraud. He welcomed this position of the honourable Member. The Commission report also states that the resolution was the only measure which could be considered in such a short time. on the management side of the New Bank, we confirmed that management optimized the use of capital injections, that certain assets were sold for scrapping and that at various times the bank process there were conflicts of interest. Unfortunately, because of the criminal decisions prior to 2014, which we must never forget, the Portuguese have come to see the serious inactions of financial supervision — large debtors who shamefully failed to honour their commitments and auditors who saw nothing. The PSD presented about 120 amendments to the conclusions of the report, which were almost all adopted, and therefore we voted in favour of the report. For those who think that this report has no author, I say here that this is not true. This report has the popular majority, through its representatives, to meet the conclusions that Parliament has successfully reached, at whose cost it costs. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u132	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has intervened in the Committee on Parliamentary Investigation on losses recorded by the New Bank and charged to the Resolution Fund with a view to establishing facts and political responsibilities on what has happened in the New Bank since the resolution so far. This Commission has had the merit of giving public visibility to the ruinous businesses carried out by BES and the New Bank, making it very clear that the parasitic nature of much of the great national capital—and here we are not confused with the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in this country—has been recorded that much of this parasitic and even illegal activity was only possible by the options, coverage and sponsorship of the right-wing policies of PS, PSD and CDS, in particular in the privatization and liberalisation of the financial sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u134	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u135	There are conclusions drawn by the CFP that, not being new, are reinforced by the development of the 58 hearings and access to information that we have never had before: the political fraud that represented the resolution decided by the PSD/CDS government, when it was said that it would be possible to solve a bank with EUR 4, 9 billion, creating a supposed « good bank », a reality that was denied with heavy costs, which still weighs on the people and the country ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u136	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u137	... the ruinous character of privatization, decided by the PS Government, delivering the bank to a private fund, Lone Star, which was left with all the instruments to use the total public guarantee of EUR 3, EUR 9 billion, without any effective control mechanisms, the inadequacy of the independent supervisory model and the serious failures of the Banco de Portugal, aggravated by the rotating doors between large auditors, banks and supervisors, the role of the European authorities, notably DGComp, which represented an even greater damage to the public interest, having Portugal being the target of a genuine experimentalism of the new European resolution rules ; that the resources of the resolution fund, delivered to the New Bank for the benefit of Lone Star are even public resources, as the CFP has always stated, as the Court of Auditors has confirmed in its audit. We know that there was someone who wanted a final report that would free the main leaders, including the governments and the political forces who made the decisions that had already cost the Portuguese people more than EUR 8 billion. We perceive the inconvenience of Antonio Ramalho, President of the New Bank, with the final version of the report, expressed in an unacceptable article of opinion for those who manage a bank that has caused so much damage to the country and who deserve the CFP response in the same media agency. at the end of dozens of hearings, we still do not know the identity of the main investors and beneficiaries of the funds to whom they were sold assets at balance price. We can't even know who Lone Star is after all, who are the entities and investors in the entire chain of ownership of this fund, from the fund created in Portugal to the top in the United States of America. In view of this opacity and the lack of response to these issues in the Committee of Inquiry, we need to draw political and non-judicial conclusions as much as it costs Antonio Ramalho. Don't be afraid of words. There were ruinous political decisions and political fraud. There are leaders and the report, in the final version, points them out, so uncomfortable has caused the PS, the CDS, and even the PSD, that approved it. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, all that has happened in the BES / New Bank process is not an isolated situation. The country has paid for the cancellations of privatization, speculation, fraudulent management, a policy in favour of financial capital. A situation that is far from over, as evidenced by the recent revelations of the so-called Pandora Papers, which once again denounce the scandal of the offshores, used to hide bad business, such as those that happened at BES and the New Bank. We therefore need to draw conclusions and lessons for the future. Measures must be taken to combat offshores, which cannot be expected from international agreements.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u139	We must assume that strategic sectors, if they are too strategic in order to be able to fail, then they must be under public control, as should happen to the bank. In particular, the New Bank, which, after paying the cleaning account by the Portuguese, already makes profit to Lone Star. If the country pays the damages, there is no justification for not moving forward in public control, recovering what has been paid, and placing the bank at the service of the economy and the country. It is for this purpose that the CFP will continue to fight. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u140	You have the floor for an intervention by the CDS, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Committee of Inquiry has been very useful. First, it was possible to discover many of the acts that were at the root of the losses still felt in the New Bank ; it was possible to detect the way in which management is going, as well as serious errors in the way in which supervision and resolution fund managed and managed the BES and the New Bank ; it was possible to realize that the sales agreement that was made made possible—and even predictable—that many million of the State continue to be injected into the New Bank ; it showed that it is possible, with study and serious work, to discover facts without having to be dealt with in the rule of law ; and that it is also possible to distinguish the wheat from juicy— in this Commission of Inquiry many companies have appeared that we have already seen in other committees of inquiry, but that in no way represent the Portuguese business fabric. As I said, the Commission has been very useful, but it must be said that the way in which it ended did not dignify it. As always, when attempting to turn a committee of inquiry or its report into a partial narrative, those who lose are the facts.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u143	And here the one who went out to lose was the facts. The report we had started by being a partial narrative and an account adjustment between governments and governments of Banco de Portugal. in other circumstances, in time, we would have proposed a committee which would draw up another report, different. But there was no time and so there was an effort by all parties so that the Commission would not end without a report. I participated in this effort, only acceptable and understandable in this context, but it was completely impossible to vote in favour of the final report. The effort of all, with a single and inflexible exclusion of the Socialist Party to reach agreements, was immense. The result, however, must be said - it has been a blanket of clippings and a report in which everyone, all of them, has conclusions in which to come, but I do not believe that there is any party or any Member to see in all the conclusions as a whole. I think there are conclusions that are manifestly inconsistent with each other. One of these conclusions, which has been inserted, is the classification of the BES resolution as political fraud. It is not a hard conclusion, Mr President, it is not an awkward one. It's a lie. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] It's a lying conclusion that rewrites history. Looking at the history of BES, as from several other banks, is also looking at a history of promiscuity between some economic fabric, some companies and a political power willing to enter this game. There is a political leader who excels, the former Prime Minister Socrates, who appears repeatedly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u145	The resolution of BES is a turning point when a government appears saying 'no, public money will not be used to save BES and usual entrepreneurs'. It's a political rupture I'm proud of, it's not a fraud!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u147	It's a break-in and I'm glad it was. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I understand that the PS would like to hide it, but as much as it would be willing to vote in favour of a report which criticizes — and well — the Socialist Party's Government could not, in conscience, vote in favour of a report which has a conclusion of these. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u148	You have the floor for an intervention by the PS, Mr. João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I begin with the statement by Carlos Costa, former Governor of Banco de Portugal and, in this condition, responsible for the sale of the New Bank. I quote: "The question is always the same: I will sell a fruit cabaz that is partly rotten. I cannot count on the kindness or generosity of the buyer so that he will pay me all the fruit as being of quality." In August 2014, Carlos Costa, Passos Coelho and Maria Luís Albuquerque had promised a "good bank" without cost to the taxpayers. Being back about seven years old, Carlos Costa acknowledged that the New Bank was, after all, loaded with toxic assets. The statement by Carlos Costa confirmed what the Socialist Party has always said about the resolution: the disease of BES has moved to the New Bank. In other words, the separation between a « good bank » and a supposed « bad bank », with the transfer of toxic assets to the New Bank, is at the root of the losses incurred by the resolution fund since 2014. And, no less important, the resolution also incorporated the undertaking of the sale of the New Bank within two years. A compromise negotiated by Carlos Costa, Passos Coelho and Maria Luís Albuquerque with the European Commission and which represented a constraint on the taking of other options in the future. For all this, it was of the highest public interest that the work of the survey went through all the time, from the management of BES to the last days of New Bank activity. Although on a proposal from the Socialist Party, the Assembly of the Republic has used the new powers of parliamentary investigations to seek the whole truth. And only so—I repeat, and only so— was it possible to access the « João Costa Pinto Report », hidden for six years in a vault of the Banco de Portugal and which revealed an essential part on the oversight failures in the management of BES. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party was one of the parties applying for this parliamentary investigation, an investigation into BES and the New Bank. It has always moved us to seek and ascertain the truth impartially. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Investigation committees do not substitute for justice, Parliament is not a court, Members are not judges or prosecutors of the Public Prosecutor's Office. But parliamentary investigations have political and media strength to ascertain and expose hidden face information. And, as it is known, the Public Prosecutor's Office, in addition to having official knowledge of the work of parliamentary investigations, is responsible for ascertaining the facts and their conclusions. It is therefore essential to establish a direct relationship between the facts and the conclusions adopted. We therefore consider it fair and appropriate to reaffirm that the preliminary report has, with scope, rigour and impartiality, reflected the facts established in the statements and the documentation sent to Members. But unfortunately, because of the partisan, the preliminary report was unjustly accused of sending. Those who have the opportunity to listen to the hearings will find that the most relevant matter is transferred to the preliminary report and, when reading the conclusions adopted, they will verify that some of them do not have access to the facts. I am referring in particular to the chapter on the sale of the New Bank. Part of the report was misused for an account adjustment with the former Government of the Socialist Party, a partisan tacticism that links the Left Block to the right. The factual line of conclusions was abandoned: on the one hand, conclusions were adopted without any link to the facts found and on the other, some of these conclusions are false, with the aggravating of being contradicted by other conclusions. I will give the example of a conclusion approved by the majority of the Left Block and by the parties on the right. I quote: « The sale of the New Bank and its contractual conditions, as defined by the Banco de Portugal and the XXI Constitutional Government in line with European taxation, have not allowed the best safeguard of the public interest ». And I now give the example of a conclusion adopted in the opposite direction: « The intervention of the XXI Constitutional Government, within its own competences, by creating the conditions for the realization of the New Bank's sale decision, taken by Banco de Portugal, in a competitive process and to the best proposal, preventing its liquidation, aimed at preserving the sustainability of the banking system and the financial system, safeguarding the public interest ». These are two contradictory conclusions. It was all worth everything in this chapter, the chapter of the conclusions on the New Bank, which cannot be taken seriously. They missed the report with partisans by approving conclusions without any connection to the facts reached and even contradictory conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The taxpayers are today more informed about what happened at BES and the New Bank. The public utility of this parliamentary investigation is recognised by the volume of information discovered and brought to general knowledge. Failures were proved in the role of supervision in the management of BES ; it was proved that the initial capital of the New Bank was insufficient; it was proved that the Coelho and Maria Luís Albuquerque's Government played a decisive role in the failure of the New Bank's initial capital, contrary to the Banco de Portugal's proposal ; it was proven that the sale of New Bank, within two years, was decided in 2014 in the framework of the negotiations with the European Commission ; it was proved that the failed sale of New Bank, in 2015, proved another heavy inheritance of the former Government ; it was proven that the sale failed in 2015 made the sale mandatory in 2017 ; it was proven that the alternative to the sale would be liquidation, with much higher costs for public finances and taxpayers ; it was proven that the sale saved the public interest. It was also shown that after 2014... [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u150	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u151	I will finish, Mr. President. As he said, it was also demonstrated that after 2014 operations were carried out in the restructuring process which clearly provided for a set of large debtors, namely the Moniz Group of Maia, the Ongoing Group and the Luís Filipe Vieira universe ; and it was also proven that these operations postponed or avoided the execution of personal guarantees, with effective gains for those debtors, which thus succeeded in consecutively deferring personal insolvency processes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u152	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u153	The losses of the New Bank charged to the Resolution Fund have raised doubts, suspicions and public opinion revolt. The public debate converged on the possibility of a parliamentary inquiry, a parliamentary inquiry which could contribute to full public clarification. After the investigation has been closed, we are sure that the action of the Socialist Party's Members has contributed to making taxpayers more clear today about what happened at BES and the New Bank. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u154	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u155	You now have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua. In the meantime, I would like to inform you that registrations for quorum will now be opened for the purpose of voting in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I know that a few months have passed since the closure of this Committee of Inquiry. Nevertheless, I would like to thank Mr President of the Commission, Mr Fernando Negrão, and the rapporteur, irrespective of the outcome of the report, we know that it was a very short time and that it required a great deal of effort and work — and also the body of officials who followed the Committee of Inquiry and who are present here today in this debate. It is known that the original version of the document, as presented to the Commission, did not bring together the majority of the parties, the majority of the Members who joined it, at least one consensus. during the vote, draftings were introduced that enabled the feasibility of the conclusions, which were more fair and true in the final document. This report includes three important conclusions, which we want to highlight. Firstly, the report establishes political responsibilities in the way that no other Member State would say: responsibilities of the European Commission, which have conditioned the whole process and all decisions both in the resolution and in the sale ; responsibilities of the Banco de Portugal, which have also been established in the previous Commission of Inquiry ; responsibilities of the administration of the New Bank and in all decisions taken from the moment of the resolution to the current administration and management of the New Bank under the Resolution Fund ; responsibilities of the governments that have accepted the European Commission's taxes, which have taken more decisions that have not defended the public interest and that have not been able to be transparent with the country and to take the decisions and consequences of the decisions they have taken. And this is about the resolution, because we all know today that there was no "good bank", we all know today that the bank was subcapitalized and so we all know today that the cost-free resolution was a lie told to the Portuguese. But this also concerns the sale, because there was no cost-free sale. The rules of the mechanism created by the sale allowed the New Bank to always maximize the injection of the Resolution Fund and, above all, it was proven that the sale was made to a « abutre fund» with an opaque property structure and no one, throughout the Commission of Inquiry, managed to even find out who it is that it is sent to the New Bank, the more it came to talk to that person. Second conclusion: the fiction of a resolution and a cost-free sale was finally denied — the Court of Auditors says so. The Resolution Fund is taxpayers' money, every cent that entered the New Bank, which today belongs to the Lone Star, is taxpayers' money. And yet, who today has the profits of a clean bank, with taxpayers' money, is Lone Star and not the Portuguese State that lost the right to control the New Bank, which is such an important bank for the Portuguese economy. Third conclusion: the mechanisms used by large debtors to create and escape the debts they constituted in the New Bank and the Portuguese bank in general were clearer, to the detriment of the whole economy. These debtors do not represent all the entrepreneurs, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, these debtors do not represent all the entrepreneurs in the country, these debtors represent a political elite, which has benefited from the privatisations and policies of financial liberalization, represent an economic elite protected by PS, PSD and CDS. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u157	These debtors represent an economic elite that feels good in the hosts of the Arrival and that even helps finance the party, they represent an economic elite that the Liberal Initiative strives to defend. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today there is no need for propaganda to disassemble and unmask this economic elite. Every time his representatives sit in a chair of a committee of inquiry, he is in front of everyone and of all his defiance, his arrogance and his sense of impunity. [[Congratulations from BE.]] And that's why, only because of the exhibition of this economic elite, it's worth it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u158	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The elites, says the Left Block... The Left Block, supported by the elites since the beginning of the regime, and still sitting here today, the elites that allowed the regime to be what it is today, are here pointing their finger to the right benches. [[BE's protests.]] Shame of all, who are here today supported by an elite that destroyed the country 47 years ago and yet come here saying « the elites that are going around ». [[BE's protests.]] There is an obvious aspect in this report. This report was not the report that came, because it would investigate the financing of political parties in Portugal, such as the Left Block and the Socialist Party. [[PS and BE protests.]] This report was not what he wanted, because this House did not allow it to be so. But there's something obvious... [[PS and BE protests.]] Calm down!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u160	Mr. Deputies, please continue. Here, who says 'quiet' is the President when he has to say. But please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Banco de Portugal has failed, and this is obvious today. It is clear today that the structures gave the Portuguese a wrong signal when they told them they could be sure of the financial system they had. And this report makes it very clear that it is. The sale of the New Bank did not undermine the public interest. But it is clear today that hearing the Socialist Party say that this was due to the last government is not to accept that this has a person named José Socrates and that that is why and for him that we are still paying for what we are paying for the New Bank. To draw this permanently to the right is to have no memory of what brought us the troika and the crisis and the sole and exclusive leader — that we are today paying for what is called José Socrates and who was Prime Minister Socialist. [[PS protests.]] But this report — and I shall finish, Mr President — brings another very curious aspect: it is that it forgets so many aspects and so many responsible ones that have led Portugal to the state in which it is today. And it is very curious that we are here discussing this on the same day that Ricardo Salgado claims in the court that he has Alzheimer's. In fact, it is a collective Alzheimer's who marks this Committee of Inquiry and who marks the investigation to the New Bank and who does not allow to point the finger at those responsible, many of them from parties sitting here in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u162	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u163	Everything that happened with the BES and what happens with Ricardo Salgado is one of the greatest shame we have had in Portugal in recent years. [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u164	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are considering the report approved by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to the New Bank, which has more than 200 conclusions. Will there be any of these conclusions in which Members A, B, C and ourselves may not be able to see ourselves as a whole? There, that's true. But what is also true is that the vast majority of the Members representing the Portuguese have reverted to this report,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u167	...with the exception of a political force, the PS. And I understand why, Mr. João Paulo Correia: is that, for you, the most important of all in this work was saving your dear Dr. Centeno. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u168	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u169	As for responsibility, I do not know why he does not also responsible D. Afonso Henriques for having created Portugal! Maybe he's responsible too! But if the country did not exist, we would not have the problem of BES and the New Bank. For you, responsibility is for all: it is for the former government, it is for the administration of the bank, it is for the former Governor of the Banco de Portugal, finally... But here is something that is even a depressor for you: is that this is an attestation of incompetence to a government that is in office.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u170	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u171	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is that you have already confirmed that they had a government, but that they did not rule. We already knew that the government was not ruling, but you are assuming that, when you say that this government has done nothing in this respect, it has not had any influence. However, Mr President, it was clear that there were concrete responsibilities of the government led by Dr. António Costa in the alienation process, those responsibilities that cost us all more than EUR 3000 million. These responsibilities have these names and that is why the Socialist Party opposed the final vote on this report. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u172	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, from the Left Block, asked for the floor to make an inquiry to the Bureau. Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u173	Mr President, I just wanted to ask for a document to be distributed on an investigation into entrepreneurs linked to BES, the businesses of Vale de Lobo and BES Angola, who met to help finance the arrival. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u174	Mr Ventura also asked for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u175	Mr President, it is also to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u176	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u177	Mr. President, it is to say that a document will be delivered on all terrorists listed in the Left Block. [[BE's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u178	Mr President, I do not think you have made an appeal to the Bureau. We then moved on to the fifth point of the agenda on Bill No. 997 / XIV/ 3. a ( PS, PSD and PCP ) — Third amendment to Law No 24 / 2009 of 29 May approving the legal regime of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences ( CNECV ). At this point, no time for discussion has been assigned. We are therefore in a position to proceed to the vote. As I have already said, the quorum check started minutes ago, but some Members are still missing. I will give you another minute so that everyone can sign up and then we will begin the vote. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been no more entries, so we will start the votes. First, we will vote on the Draft Vote No 685 / XIV / 3. a ( presented by members of the PS and PSD ), regretting the death of the Consonant Alexandre Mendonça. I ask the Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died in Caracas the Consonant Alexandre Mendonça, who, during his more than 33 years of priesthood, was directly and intensely connected to the service of the Luso-venezuelan community. It was another victim of the infamous epidemic of COVID-19 that has hit us and we are now starting to cross. Born in São Pedro do Funchal, Madeira, Alexandre João Mendoza de Canha emigrated to Venezuela at the age of 12. However, due to the difficult economic situation of his family, only at the age of 26 did he enter the seminar. For more than 15 years, he was a mentor of Campo Rico, a popular parish of very poor people, where he served as an iconic of the Archbishop of Caracas, director of the Priestly House — who welcomes sick priests — and a chaplain of various Venezuelan public security agencies. In 1999 he opened the gates of the Portuguese Catholic Mission to welcome dozens of compatriots who lost their homes and families during the rents in the Venezuelan State of Vargas. He presided over the Virgin of Fatima Foundation and was an adviser to the Marian Priestly Movement. It was also a spiritual guide of charitable associations and colleges, of the Portuguese Center ( Macaracuay ) and of the Caribbean Center of Venezuela ( Turumo ). The Cónego Alexandre also had an acute political conscience, particularly with regard to the living conditions of Venezuelans, on several occasions demonstrating his concern about the shortcomings of the local Lusa community and the situation of insecurity in the country, alerting to the dangers of polarization of the situation in the country due to extreme speeches between the supporters of the government and the opposition. In 1997 he was thanked by the President of the Republic with the rank of Commander of the Order of Merit and in 1999 with the order Cecílio Acosta, first class, by the authorities of the state of Miranda ( Venezuela ). In 2006, it was declared an illustrious Madeirense and thanked with a medal and a award by the Pro-Celebration Commission of Madeira Autonomous Region Day in Caracas. In June 2019, he was decorated with the Medal of Merit of the Portuguese Communities, on the occasion of the Portuguese Day, in which he took advantage to appeal to the Portuguese to pay attention to the most vulnerable, in particular to the Luso-venezuelan elders. He also received the Caracas Metropolitan Police Cross, second and third class, and in 2006 was decorated by the Portuguese Center of Caracas with the Great Order John Fernandes of Leon Pacheco. Father Alexandre Mendonça was, above all, very close to the community. I could hear. He knew how to intervene when his lives were at stake and how to protect his well-being. It was a support for consular and diplomatic work and it reached where no one else could reach. His serene voice was the greatest sign of his strength. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Connego Alexandre Mendonça, addressing its condolences to his family and friends and to all those who were addressed for his action. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u180	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We passed the Vote Project No. 691 / XIV / 3. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, PAN, Member of Parliament not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and by CH ) — Regret of the death of Armanda Passos. I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with his reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last October 19, at 77 years of age, Armanda Passos, a major reference of contemporary Portuguese painting. Born 1944, in Peso da Régua, Maria Armanda Pinheiro da Silva Passos graduated in Plastic Arts from the School of Fine Arts of the University of Porto, an institution to which it remained forever linked and that it was one of the main aesthetic references. It was in the city of Porto that it settled and where it held its first individual exhibition, Painting and Design, in 1981, where it soon stood out by the emblematic representations of birds and by women of large volumes, approaching it of neofigurative art. Member of the Group Series Artists Printers, Armanda Passos leaves a vast work, which crosses painting, drawing and screenplay, attesting to his immense talent—that, according to his own, ‘(...) has manifested itself slowly’. It was also with the time that his recognition emerged, patent in the hundreds of exhibitions in which he participated, individual and collective, in Portugal and beyond, contributing to universally affirm his work, just celebrated with the retrospective Reservations and Artwork Graph, that the University of Porto promoted in 2011, in parallel with the publication of Armanda Passos — Centenário U.P. — A retrospective by José-Augusto France, Manuel Sobrinho Simões and Luís de Moura Sobral. Armanda Passos is represented in public collections (National Museum of Contemporary Art — Chiado Museum, Modern Art Center of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, Serralves Museum, Douro Museum – which donated an important part of its artistic acquisition — or the Quinta de Santiago Museum, in Matosinhos – which has also attached significant and private works. Among the many distinctions he received, stands out the Order of Merit Command, in 2012, by the President of the Republic of Aníbal Cavaco Silva. At the time of his disappearance, let us pay tribute to the memory of Armanda Passos, highlighting the importance of his work, his profound humanity and sensitivity—especially for women and animals—and his immense generosity. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Armanda Passos, addressing to his family and friends the most sorry condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u182	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now move on to the Vote Project No 690 / XIV / 3. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities ) — regretting the murder of Sir David Amess. Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « Sir David Amess, British member of the Conservative Party, died after having been stabbed on 15 October last, in an audience with voters in the Methodist Church of Belfairs, in Leigh-on-Sea, in an act classified as a terrorist by the British Government and which, obviously, is a cause of particular concern and rejection for all Democrats, and in particular for those who, like us, are also representatives of the people. Sir David Amess served his constituents dedicatedly, representing the circle of Southend West ( Essex County) since 1997, having been elected to the British Parliament for the first time in 1983. Born in Plaistow, Essex, March 26, 1952, Sir David Amess studied Economics at the University of Bournemouth, having served as a primary teacher. Catholic, 69, married, now leaves five children. Elected by the Conservative Party, in 1982, to serve as councillor by the electoral circle of Redbridge, it was pointed out by the population of Basildon, its preferred land, to perform this same function in 1983. Prime Minister Boris Jonhson praised Sir David Amess as ‘ one of the most generous and generous people in politics, ’ known as “the drafting of laws to protect the most vulnerable. ” In particular, its dedicated involvement in the promulgation of the Protection Against Cruel Tethering Act of 1988 in the fight against animal abuse and the 2000 Warm Homes and Energy Conservation Act against energy poverty was highlighted. An attack on a Member is always an attack on democracy itself. No difference of opinion, ideological dispute, personal disagreement can at any time justify violence, much less an act as heinous and cruel as the murder of a public servant. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, deeply condemns the vile and cowardly murder of Sir David Amess, as well as all forms of attacks on human life, transmitting to its family and friends, to the representatives of colleagues of Amess, the English Conservative Party and all Members of the English Parliament, as well as to the people of the United Kingdom, the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u184	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the regret that we have just adopted, we will remain silent for one minute. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes is asking for the floor. I'm guessing it's to warn the Bureau that it's present.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u185	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u186	The gentlemen. Members who have not been able to sign up, but who are present, please speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u187	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u188	Me too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u189	And I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u190	Are there any more inscriptions?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u191	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u192	Me too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u193	Any more Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u194	Me too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u195	And I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u196	All right. As you will recall, I opened the entries for registration with quorum effects and then I gave another one minute and so on, but no one signed up. As long as we do not get used to this simple fact of having to sign up twice, one time when we arrive and the other when the votes begin, we will continue to have some problems. But there are more serious things in life. We continue with the vote on the draft vote No 683 / XIV / 3. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Congratulations on the achievement of the Futsal World Championship. Mr. Secretary Diogo Leone will read this draft vote. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last 3 October, the Futsal National Selection was the first world champion to win the championship of the modality that took place in Lithuania between 12 September and 3 October 2021. The National Selection thus brings together the title of World Champion to European Champion, a title achieved in 2018, confirming the excellence of our athletes, as well as the solid and consistent work developed by the Portuguese Football Federation, its leaders and technical team, in the consecration of national sports and the colours of Portugal. In addition to the collective consecration, there is also to highlight the allocation of individual awards to two Portuguese players: Richardinho, captain of Portugal, elected tournament player (Golden Ball), and Pany Varela, second best player (Golden Ball ) and second best scorer of the championship ( Silver Boot ), with eight goals. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, congratulates the athletes of the National Selection of Futsal, as well as the technical team and leaders of the Portuguese Football Federation, for the brilliant performance at the World Futsal Championship, which both honored Portuguese and Portuguese sports. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u198	Thank you, Mr. Secretary Diogo Leon. Before we proceed to the vote, I would like to inform Parliament that several are present in the gallery responsible for this victory: Humberto Coelho, Vice President of the Portuguese Football Federation ; José Coucier, Vice President of the Portuguese Football Federation ; José Luís Mendes, national coach; and Euclides Vaz, world champion player. [[General applause, stand up.]] In the Assembly of the Republic we do not have the figure of votes by acclamation, so we have to vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now have for the vote draft vote No 687 / XIV / 3. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PSD, CH, BE, PS and PCP ) — Of solidarity for the Day of Memory and Hope. In the galleries, I report that the heads of the committee promoter of this Day of Memory and Hope are present: Mr. Juiz Conseileiro Jubilado, Dr. Álvaro Laborinho Lucio, Professor Dr. Isabel do Carmo, Dr. Jorge Wemans, Dr. Evelina Ungureanu and also the Association Accreditar. It was agreed that interventions would take place before the vote on this draft vote. I will therefore read the vote after what will take place on it. The draft vote shall be as follows: « Portugal is, today, proudly, the country of the world with the highest levels of vaccination against COVID-19, a reality that was only possible thanks to the commitment of Portuguese and Portuguese and their institutions, in the most diverse plans of action and intervention, which gave their best and best of themselves. A collective effort gave the motto to the manifesto that is at the base of the Day of Memory and Hope, to be carried out between October 22 and 24, in order to honor the victims of the pandemic — directly affected by the disease, but also by the fear and loneliness that caused it — and to promote a joint reflection on how it was faced and fought, because the pandemic touched everyone, because it affected all sectors of society, because it conditioned the life of all and life in society. The Assembly of the Republic, which has been in full operation throughout the period of the pandemic crisis, has been called to authorize state of emergency declarations and their successive renewals (which, it must be recalled, have been translated into limitations to certain rights, freedoms and guarantees) — is now called upon to associate itself with the national tribute to the victims of the COVID-19 and to the deserved tribute to all those involved in the fight against the pandemic — and many — in particular to health professionals, for their efforts, dedication and professionalism, without which it would not have been possible to reduce the suffering and pain of so many, nor to counteract the most harmful effects of the pandemic crisis. In this regard, it is recalled the invaluable role played by the National Health Service, as recognized by numerous testimonies of those who were assisted by him in this difficult time. At the same time, Parliament is called upon to associate itself with a national reflection on how we should view dramatic crises such as the one we have experienced in the past year and a half (in the overwhelming proportions that it has achieved, whether in terms of health—physical and mental— or from an economic, social and human point of view), and on the importance of affirming the hope of a better future, of a more just, more solidarity, more tolerant and fraternal society. Vaccination figures—which also pride us on how much they say about the confidence that Portuguese and Portuguese put in science and knowledge produced by it, contrary to what happens in countries that are so close to us— bring with them a horizon of hope about a future with less limitations and conditions, which will not make us forget the pandemic we are about to win and the lessons and teachings that the traumatic experience of the past year and half brought to the Portuguese and Portuguese. However, the pandemic has not yet been overcome — it is important to recognize it — and it is not known when it will be, and there is still much to be done, particularly with regard to the democratization of the vaccine throughout the world, as the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, has warned, which will save lives, reduce suffering and prevent the emergence of new variants of the virus, ‘In memory of what each has lived, to underline collective mourning, affirm the hope that moves us and honours the victims of the pandemic’, as can be read in the manifesto of the Day of Memory and Hope, to which the Assembly of the Republic is associated through this Vote of Solidarity. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays tribute to all the victims of the COVID-19 and transmits its solidarity to all those who have been affected by its consequences, recognizing simultaneously and within the framework of the Day of Memory and Hope, the effort, dedication and professionalism of all those involved in the fight against the pandemic, especially to health professionals, without which it would not have been possible to reduce the suffering and pain of so many, nor to counteract their most harmful effects. Do not keep on seeking. ” I report that there are also a group of activists in the galleries and the Association Protector of the Diabetics of Portugal. To speak on this point, Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group is already inscribed. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me start by welcoming the promoters of this citizen-based initiative, the Day of Memory and Hope. First of all, this day is asking us in solidarity so that we can recognize that this problem of COVD-19 is not yet overcome and that there are people in the world who are still suffering from all the personal, family, economic, social dramas that the COVID-19 brought, because of the fact that their countries have not yet had access to the vaccine to be able to deal with this public health problem, which, in fact, continues to mark the reality of many countries and many peoples throughout the world. Of course, it also asks us, in relation to the situation that we live in our country, to reflect on not only the way in which the pandemic had, in Portugal, this dramatic expression — firstly, with the loss of human lives, which marked us indeliblely — but also by the way in which we had to call all those who, in their day-to-day terms, have contributed to the functioning of society in a self-sufficient way and to whom an increased effort was required to contribute so that Portuguese society should not suffer any more than what it has suffered, not only from the point of view of losing human lives, but also from the point of view of guaranteeing living conditions, to ensure that the economic and social consequences are not even more profound. At this point, I would like to stress the absolutely remarkable role played by health professionals, the professionals of the security forces and services, the workers of essential services, such as food supply, services and trade, the workers of the collection of solid urban waste, municipal water services, transport, and so many men and women who, in their daily lives, seem invisible, but who are real workers of the way in Portugal we have managed to respond to the epidemic so that the consequences are not even more dramatic than those we have to face. This reflection on the valorization of those who had to give, and have given, this contribution should generously ask us also to make a deeper reflection on the true conditions that Portugal has to ensure that its people do not have to be confronted with new dramatic situations, such as those with which we have been confronted. We hope that we will never be, but we must be prepared for this eventuality. I believe that this reflection leaves us with the initiative that they have initiated and therefore we also want to welcome it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u200	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u201	Mr President, this vote of solidarity which Mr President, in good time, has decided to present, on this Day of Memory and Hope, enables us to affirm, in a clear and unequivocal manner, our tribute to the victims of COVID-19, our solidarity with all those who have been affected and our recognition for the efforts of health professionals, who have helped us at this difficult stage and continue to help. But the fact that this is a memory journey also allows me to say that we will not forget the future victims of delays in consultations, examinations and surgeries. We will not forget the students whose learning, whose socialization, whose mental health was seriously affected by this pandemic. We will not forget the pregnant women who have been prevented from being accompanied in their pregnancy process. We will not forget all Portuguese who, every day, continue to be confronted with the poor response of the SNS (National Health Service) due to the chaos occurring in several hospital units. As this is a journey of hope, I would like to tell all Portuguese that the true source of hope is not to confuse these moments of honor, recognition and solidarity with a whitening of the real problems which, in the future, may lead once again to the fact that Portuguese do not have the answer they really need in public services. For this moment of hope and for these answers, they will always be able to count on the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u202	Mrs Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the vote of solidarity for the Day of Memory and Hope, which will take place on 22 and 24 October, The Greens, in addition to joining and greeting their promoters, would like to leave some reflections. The days of ignorance, fear, isolation seem to us far away. In memory, these times of fear remain, but above all, the moments of courage of those who have continued to work to guarantee the needs of our day-to-day life. In memory there is, above all, the invaluable value of the National Health Service, the commitment of health professionals who gave themselves so that many would survive an unknown virus. In memory, the uncertainties remain in the rapid response that science has given us and in the courage that the population has responded to this call. How good it would be for everyone in the world to have access to vaccination, because no one escaped the virus! Commercial and capitalist values speak higher and, therefore, vaccination will be slower in various parts of the world, as if these human beings were children of a lesser god. Unfortunately, the promises of changing behaviors, of greater solidarity, of greater concern with the other and with the planet quickly faded away. This is what we see when we continue to have elderly people isolated and afraid, when we still do not have the necessary conditions to support and prevent mental illness, when children and young people still do not have the necessary conditions for access to sport, mobility, health and culture. For the future, it is certain that more investment is needed in public services and recognize the role of researchers and technicians. It remains certain that public health cannot be neglected, that mental health needs to stop being the poor relative, that public school needs to be improved and that it is essential to protect the environment and nature so that future pandemics can be prevented. For the future, we have maintained the struggle for better living conditions as a tribute to all who have died with or from COVID-19 and for all who have lost their lives because they have not been assisted, in their chronic diseases or in the diseases that have arisen during these difficult months. We cannot forget the past, we need to learn from it and it is urgent that we look to the future with the hope that it is possible. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u204	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u205	Mr President, I would also like to associate myself with this Day of Memory and Hope. COVID-19 brought us a world that we didn't expect and that none of us could predict. We must remember, in this House, all those who died or were affected by the COVID-19, but also their families and all those who were, in one form or another, irremediably affected. But we should also remember those who, because of this pandemic, were left behind and to whom we could not give what they deserved. Also those who have not been able to access consultations, who have not been able to access medical acts, which were often urgent and necessary, must be in our memory today and we must not forget that it was this black period that was most demanding that our action should be correct and effective. To speak of memory and hope is also to recognize the work of all those who have so much engaged in the fight against this pandemic: the health professionals, who have fought as they probably never fought, to achieve dignity to a country that was afraid and afraid, but also many others, besides the health professionals, who were present when they were called — the security forces, the militarized and military forces, who have participated in the effort of vaccination, containment, distribution of medical materials and to whom we must also pay tribute today. We cannot focus our homage, uniquely and exclusively, on a sector of society, because all of them were, in their own way, important and fundamental to ensure that the pandemic did not become a catastrophe in Portugal. We cannot forget not only the sectors that have never stopped—often afraid of going out on the street, with small children or elderly people at home having to be treated, these people deserve us not to forget about them—but also the association.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u206	Thank you, sir. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u207	I will finish, Mr. President. in this Day of Hope and Memory, all of them and all deserve our applause and consideration. Thank you very much for the initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u208	You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the promoters of this journey, thanking the initiative and taking advantage of this vote of solidarity, presented by the President of the Assembly of the Republic, to remember, firstly, all those who have been victims of this pandemic, which is still prolonged in the country and in the world. I wanted to leave a word of regret for all the fatal victims and a word of solidarity for all those and all those who lost someone dear during this pandemic — at the date of yesterday's 17 182 people who died of COVID-19 and, indeed, they cannot be forgotten — but also those people who have been ill during the pandemic and who, still today, have experienced sequelae in health, because of the same disease. There are over 900 000 people who have been sick in Portugal for over a year and a half, and who cannot be forgotten either. Thirdly, I would also like to remind the victims of the various crises that have increased with the pandemic crisis, because there has been a social crisis and an economic crisis that has caused many people to suffer from unemployment and poverty, and that cannot be forgotten either. Fourthly, I wanted to give a word of the fairest recognition to all those who did not let the country stop: health professionals, in the first line — no doubt about it — but also all the workers, who were in the front line every day to ensure that food, essential goods and essential services reached the whole population and were not interrupted. It is also necessary to recognize this work and to ensure that they are not forgotten. And not forgetting is not to let everything remain in the same, not to let everything return to what was before the pandemic. Don't forget it's taking lessons from the pandemic. Of course, three, very fast...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u210	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u211	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, of course, three very fast: that the National Health Service has to have more and health professionals deserve more; that precariousness cannot be the rule, especially for new contracts and for young people; and that there are living conditions that make certain people more vulnerable to disease...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u212	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u213	... and that these living conditions should be improved, including housing and work. This can't be forgotten. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u214	Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the promoters of this initiative, to which the NAP addresses a special word of appreciation. This pandemic, which was actually the mother of all pandemics, because of it, as already mentioned here, and well, resulted from the pandemic of the socio-economic crisis, but also derived the silent pandemic of mental illness. The country can stay, and must stay, thanks to its heroes and heroes who saved millions of lives in our country: health professionals and all the professionals who allowed Portugal to continue, that Portugal continues. The appreciation of these professionals, however, cannot continue to be evocative and must, yes, pass from words to actions. We also do not forget the fundamental role of non-governmental organizations, which have replaced themselves and continue to replace the State by supporting thousands of families, who have seen their situation become more fragile in this pandemic. Nor can we forget that environmental issues, which were an integral part of the origin of this pandemic, cannot be left behind. Structural changes and changes are needed both in the environmental sector and in the socio-economic and support sector, especially for families and more vulnerable people. We greet and honor the victims and their families of this global scourge. That this pandemic has indeed served as a lesson and that Portugal learns from the mistakes it has made in the past and that it has led to thousands of lost lives, but also thousands of saved lives. Once again, we reiterate the appeal: we cannot stand by the evocations, we must turn to action. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u216	It is the time of the PS Parliamentary Group, through Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes the initiative of this vote of solidarity, which associates the Assembly of the Republic with the Day of Memory and Hope, which takes place in the coming days. We welcome the promoters of this great initiative. In this regard, we must remember all those who have left, victims of this pandemic, and address a word of comfort and solidarity to all families and all friends who, unfortunately, suffered this disgust. We also want to leave a word of hope to all those who, having suffered from CVID-19 disease, still feel the consequences on their health, on economic and social conditions, in their daily lives. It is also our obligation to point out and thank all health professionals and essential services for the effort, work, delivery to combat this pandemic, which, in conjunction with scientific and technical progress, allowed us to come to this moment of hope in strengthening more fraternal social relations, closer. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, we associate, greet and be supportive. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u218	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The COVID-19 pandemic was a tragedy — more than 17 000 Portuguese people killed, nearly 1 million infected, lives marked and disturbed, citizens in an extreme effort to cope with the various circumstances and demands that bring us a pandemic. Portugal, like the rest of the world — Europe, in particular — has suffered here a moment of great anxiety, a tragic moment. And we cannot lose the memory of those moments. Memory is something that saves us from this dark past and throws us into a future of hope. Therefore, we can hope, because we have gained this hope in the commitment of our health or education professionals, public service professionals, municipal services, from the most modest to the most responsible. And these moments of memory restore us and give us hope for the future. We therefore welcome this vote, we welcome this initiative, Mr President, and the citizens who have given themselves to it. We welcome in particular those who feed the hope that it is worth having a future life in Portugal because we really have a society with immense capacity, with immense resources. Today, we note that in Europe — especially in Europe, where we belong and where we live — the dynamics of infection continue, with the number of deaths growing in many countries that live with us. And we, however, are apparently, for some time, safe, because we were really supportive, because we were responsible, because we had a notion of what this sister relationship is, this fraternal relationship, which is required in these moments of tragedy, as was this moment of the pandemic. Therefore, Mr President, I welcome this initiative, hoping that in the future we will be able to respond to the imperative challenges of the tragedies and not forgetting all those for whom the PSD Parliamentary Group devotes its solidarity, its brotherly feelings and friends why many Portuguese have suffered, and we are with those Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u220	I call on the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Promoters of the Day of Memory and Hope initiative : I would obviously begin by joining the words of sorrow for the victims, for all those who have lost their lives, of solidarity with their families and also with those who, having suffered this disease, will never know what the consequences will be. We must therefore add our voice to the words of sorrow and solidarity. But when we speak in memory, we also need to realize that this memory has to be whole, it has to be integral and it has to be true. And a true memory on this subject leads us to situations that have gone well, to situations that run less well, and even to some situations that have been quite wrong. It is not worth squatting it today, if we want to make that memory, because from there we can learn lessons for the future. As for what went well, it has already been said that the country, Portugal, the Portuguese reacted globally well, demonstrating something that we knew of our history as Portuguese: that, in the most difficult times, in the most critical moments, the Portuguese are together, they act, so to speak, and respond to the difficulties. We saw this in the institutions, we saw it in the health professionals, we saw it in the fire department, we saw it in the security forces, we saw it in so many and so many autoarchs at the level of the parish in this country outside, we saw it in so many volunteers, from the church or not, who gathered to go to the people's house to bring food, take drugs, not let anyone get forgotten or stay behind. That's what went well. What went wrong — and we cannot forget — is that there have been many hesitations throughout this process. Just remember: it was to wear a mask, it wasn't to wear a mask; it was to come with a mask, it wasn't to come with a mask; it was to vaccinate everyone; it was to start with some, it was to start with others; it was to close, it was to open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u223	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. There have been many hesitations, Mr President, and we must learn from that. Lesson, of course, of the importance of the National Health Service, but also of the use of all installed capacity and of the whole system of private and cooperatives,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u224	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u225	... lessons of solidarity, lessons of resilience, so that the country will come out stronger, because we do not yet know, as I said, all the consequences of this drama, which may happen for the future. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u226	You have the word Mrs. Deputy not enrolled Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I greet and greet the promoters of these days. First of all, I wanted to address the deepest condolences to the families and friends of the victims of COVID-19 and also wish rapid improvements to all those who are currently hospitalized. I would also like to greet health professionals, security forces and services and all those who were on the front line fighting the pandemic and who, with their persistence and work, allowed the rest to live as normal as possible. Portugal is the country of the world with the highest level of vaccination against COVID-19 — something that is a cause of pride — which was only possible with the effort of all those who, despite fatigue, never lowered their arms. The pandemic caused an unprecedented economic and social crisis, which affected, in particular, people in a situation of special vulnerability, changed the way we lived, which also had profound impacts on Portuguese mental health. Therefore, despite the importance of the path we have made, it is essential to continue to resist and monitor its effects and to continue to work to minimize all the impacts caused by this pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u228	You now have the floor, and to conclude this debate, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira does not register.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet the authors and the authors of this initiative. This is a time of enormous reflection. Why? Because, for a year and a half, we have been in an environment of enormous anxiety: anxieties with regard to the pandemic, but also enormous anxieties with regard to the structural inequalities of our society. We should not forget that the most affected by COVID-19 were the most socially vulnerable people. So this is actually the time to invest much more in the SNS and value professionals. It is time to invest in the values of democracy, to fight against negationisms. It is also time to strengthen that minorities have suffered — and suffer — much more from the impact of COVID-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u230	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u231	Therefore, this is the time to fight together against inequality, because the health pandemic has also shown us that for many years we have been with a humanitarian pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u232	It is therefore time to vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote No 687 / XIV / 3. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PSD, CH, BE, PS and PCP ) — Of solidarity for the Day of Memory and Hope. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[General applause, stand up.]] We shall now vote on the request submitted by the PS, having obtained the consent of the author of the request from the Committee on Culture and Communication, for the 60-day period of the Proposal for a Law No 113 / XIV/3. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 789, laying down rules on the exercise of copyright and related rights applicable to certain on-line broadcasters and broadcasting of television and radio programmes, and the Proposal for a Law No 114 / XIV/3. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 790 on copyright and related rights in the digital single market. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice-President Antonio Filipe was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u233	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u234	The honourable Member is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u235	Mr President, it is only to inform the Bureau of my presence for quorum purposes that my name is not present.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u236	All right, Mr. Deputies. Be registered. If there is any more honourable Member in the same situation, I would like to thank you for identifying yourself. Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro asks for the floor. Is it for this purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u237	Yes, Mr President, it is precisely for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u238	All right, Mr. Deputies. Be registered. We will now move on to additional script I on the review of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 128 / XIV — It allows the use of drug-assisted procreation techniques through semen insemination after the death of the donor, in cases of expressly consented parental projects, amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( assisted drug-procreation ). We shall proceed with the special vote on the proposed amendments. I wonder if we are going to have to vote one by one or if we can vote them together. [[Pause.]] With no objection, we shall jointly vote on the proposals submitted by the PS, the BE, the CFP, the ENP and the NAP, amending Article 23 ( 5 ). the Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( as set out in Article 2 ). the decree ) ; amending Article 22 ( 1 ). -A of Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( added by Article 3 ). the decree ) ; amending Article 22 ( 2 ). -A of Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( added by Article 3 ). the decree ) ; amending Article 22 ( 3 ). -A of Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( added by Article 3 ). the decree ) ; amending Article 2033 ( 1 ). the Civil Code ( Article 4 ). the decree ) ; adding Article 2046 ( 2 ). the Civil Code ( Article 4 ). the decree ) ; amending Article 5 ( 1 ). the decree and amending Article 5 ( 2 ( a ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD, CDS-PP and CH and abstentions by 5 PS (Bruno Aragão, Fernando Anastácio, Filipe Neto Brandão, Porfirio Silva, Rosário Gambôa).]] [[These are: By amendment to Article 23(5) of Law No 32/2006 of 26 July (Article 2 of the Decree). ‘Article 23 [...] 1 — [...] 2 — [...] 3 — [...] 4 — [...] 5 — Since consent exists for the possibility of post-mortem insemination with successive effects, the inheritance of the deceased parent shall remain lying within three years of his death, which shall be extended to full birth and with the life of the unborn child if the insemination procedures allowed under Article 22(5)’ — Amendment to Article 22a(1), (2) and (3) of Law 32/2006 of 26 July (added by Article 3 of the Decree). ‘Article 22a Requirements of consent for post-mortem insemination 1 — The consent for post-mortem insemination referred to in Article 22(1) shall be reduced to writing or registered on a videogram after providing the donor with information on its legal consequences. 2 — The consent referred to in the previous paragraph may be included in the document in which the informed consent provided for in Article 14 is provided, provided that it is independent. 3 — The consent document authorizing the post-mortem insemination referred to in the preceding paragraphs shall be communicated to the National Council for Medicinal Products Assisted for the purposes of its centralised registration.’ — By amending Article 2033(1) of the Civil Code and Article 2046(2) of the Civil Code (constants of Article 4 of the Decree). ‘Article 2033... 1 — They have successive capacity, in addition to the State, all persons born or conceived at the time of the opening of the succession, not exempted by law, as well as persons conceived in accordance with the law in the context of a post-mortem insemination procedure. 2 — [...].’ ‘Article 2046... 1 —... 2 — There being consent for the possibility of post-mortem insemination, in accordance with the law, the inheritance of the deceased parent shall remain lying in existence for the period of three years following his death, which shall be extended to full birth and with the life of the unborn child if the insemination procedures allowed under the law are pending.’ — Amendment to Article 5(1) of the Decree and amendment to Article 5(2)(a) of the Decree. Article 5 Transitional arrangements 1 — The possibility of post-mortem insemination with the semen of the husband or de facto unit shall apply to cases where, prior to the entry into force of this law, a clearly consented and established parental project has been established in a free and informed manner and for all its effects. 2 — In the cases provided for in the previous paragraph: (a) in the absence of a document satisfying the requirements of Article 22a of Law No 32/2006 of 26 July, they shall be admissible as evidence demonstrating the existence of written consent of the donor, videogram registration of the donor's declaration or declaration under an honour of the doctor who accompanied the procedure confirming the existence of such consent;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u239	We are now voting on the new decree, with the amendments introduced. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD, CDS-PP and CH and abstentions by 5 PS (Bruno Aragon, Fernando Anastácio, Filipe Neto Brandão, Porfirio Silva, Rosário Gambôa).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u240	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u241	The honourable Member is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u242	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on these last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u243	All right, Mr. Deputies. Be registered. Let us now move on to additional script II on the review of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 167 / XIV — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 713 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on combating fraud and counterfeiting of means of payment other than cash by amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, Law No 109 / 2009 of 15 September approving the Cybercrime Law, and other legislative acts. With no objection, we shall jointly vote on the proposals submitted by the PS and PSD for the elimination of Article 17. the Law No 109 / 2009 of 15 September ( as set out in Article 5 ). the decree). [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to amend Article 30. the Law No 109 / 2009 of 15 September ( as set out in Article 5 ). the decree). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PCP, the PEN, the ENP, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, BE, CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It is as follows: ‘Article 30 [...] The processing of personal data under this Law shall be carried out in accordance with Law No 59/2019 of 8 August and shall apply, in the event of a breach, the provisions of Chapters VII and VIII thereof.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u244	We shall finally proceed to the vote on the new decree, with the amendments made. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and CH.]] We will now proceed to the joint vote of the requests, submitted by the respective parties authors of the legislative initiatives, to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, for the period of 30 days, without a vote, of Bill No. 666 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 58 / 2019 of 8 August, which ensures the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation, ensuring the access of medical students to information systems and platforms on which health data from health care users are recorded, and 966 / XIV/3. a ( BE) — It allows access to a set of personal data by medical students and scientific researchers, for academic purposes, of archives of public interest for scientific or historical purposes or statistical purposes ( first amendment to Law No 58 / 2019, of 2021 ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] These bills are thus down to 1. the Commission. Then we will vote on draft resolution No 1315 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Strengthening the social network for early childhood. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the PCP, the PEV, the IL and the Non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u245	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u246	The honourable Member is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u247	Mr President, it is to announce the delivery of a declaration of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u248	All right. Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now vote, in general, on Bill No. 371 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — It proposes measures to extend the freeness of day care and equivalent solutions. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] This bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 963 / XIV / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Programme to encourage the creation and flexibility of daycare hours. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD and the PAN.]] Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 965 / XIV / 3. a ( BE ) — Creates the Public Knitting Network Program. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] The vote on draft resolution No 186 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — Enlargement of the public day care network and support for families where there are no public sector responses. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PAN, CH and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, PCP, PEV, IL and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 871 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Set up unequivocally the principle of the most favourable assessment in the evaluations made by medical board ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 202 / 96 of 23 October ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] This bill goes down to 9. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 916 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Medical attestation of Multi-purpose Incapacity — clarifying the processes of review or re-evaluation of the degree of disability by means of an interpretative standard to Article 4. the Decree— Law No. 202 / 96 of 23 October. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, CDS-PP, CH and IL abstentions.]] The bill goes down to 9. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 9 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the permanent financing scheme of the Programme of Support for Tax Reduction in Public Transport. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PAN and CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u249	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u250	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u251	Mr President, it is only to inform me that I will deliver a written vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u252	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we proceed to the general vote of Bill No 964 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN) — Establishs the strengthening and evaluation of the implementation and implementation of the Programme of Support for the Reduction of the Public Transport Tariff ( PART) and the Programme of Support for the Density and Strengthening of the Public Transport Offer ( PROTransP). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the NAP and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CH, IL and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We continue with the vote on the Draft Deliberation No 2 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Evocative Session of 25 November. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD, the PAN and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 70 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government propose to the President of the Republic the allocation of the Freedom Order to the persons who have contributed decisively to the triumph of democracy and freedom on 25 November 1975. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions against the NAP and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 45 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — For the solemn celebration of 25 November. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions against the NAP and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We will now vote on the application by the NAP to the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea for 60 days of the Bill No 746 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Determines the installation of closed television circuits in slaughterhouses. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote of Bill No. 764 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( PAN) — Determines the obligation of the installation of fire detection system on livestock holdings of classes 1 and 2, on an intensive basis, by making the fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 220 / 2008 of 12 November 2008. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and IL and abstentions from the ENP and CH.]] This bill goes down to 7. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 185 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Consecrates on Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory national holiday ( sixteenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS MP João Nicolau and the abstention from CH.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 969 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — Consecrates on Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory national holiday, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS MP João Nicolau and the abstention from CH.]] Mrs. Members, let us continue with the general vote of Bill No 581 / XIV / 2. a ( Citizens) — Prohibition of dog racing in Portugal. The problem is that there are requests for a discharge from the committee, without a vote, of the bills of the Party's initiative, but citizens do not have the possibility of asking the committee for a discharge, without a vote, of their bill, so we will have to vote on this bill of the citizens' legislative initiative. Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the Members of the PS Norberto Patinho and Pedro do Carmo, votes in favour of BE, the PAN, non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, PS Deputies Ana Passos and Pedro Delgado Alves and PSD Deputies Alexandre Poço, Cristóvão Norte, Margarida Balsairo Lopes and Pedro Pinto and PS and PEV abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u253	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u254	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u255	Mr President, it is to announce the delivery of a written statement of vote by DOS Verdes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u256	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the requests. We shall vote on the application by the NAP to the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea for 60 days from the Bill No 219 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Determines the prohibition of racing dogs best known by chicken races. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote, in general, on Bill No. 783 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — prohibits the racing of chickens and other animals of the canidae family as practices contrary to the natural behavior of animals. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the Deputies of PS Norberto Patinho and Pedro do Carmo, votes against BE, the PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and ENP abstentions.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 970 / XIV / 3. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Determines the prohibition of racing dogs for competitive purposes. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the Deputies of PS Norberto Patinho and Pedro do Carmo, votes against BE, the PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and ENP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u257	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u258	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u259	Mr President, it is only to say that the written declaration I announced recently also refers to the vote on these last two draft laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u260	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft Law No 997 / XIV / 3 in the speciality and in the overall final vote. a ( PS, PSD and PCP ) — Third amendment to Law No 24 / 2009 of 29 May approving the legal regime of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences ( CNECV ). [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and BE abstention.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1419 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ) — The suspension of extradition agreements with China and Hong Kong as recommended by the European Parliament. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP and votes against BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u261	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u262	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u263	Mr President, it is to inform that the PSD Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u264	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will now vote on draft resolution No 1463 / XIV/ 3. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure the inalienable right of children to the presence of a significant figure of children at the time of transition from educational contexts. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and BE abstentions.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 908 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — The fourth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 252/2000 of 16 October adopting the Organic Law of the Foreign and Border Service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD and the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues abstained.]] We're going on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 104 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Reform of security forces and services engaged in internal security activities within the framework of the rehabilitation of the competences of the Foreign and Border Service. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the BE and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u265	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u266	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u267	Mr President, it is to announce the intention to make an oral vote on this vote at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u268	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u269	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u270	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u271	Mr President, it is in order to give the Bureau an indication that we intend to make an oral vote on this vote and to indicate already Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias to that effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u272	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u273	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u274	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u275	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD Parliamentary Group intends to make an oral statement on the vote on this final text and we have already indicated Mr André Coelho Lima to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u276	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u277	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u278	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u279	Mr President, it is also to inform the Bureau that we intend to make an oral vote and will be Mr José Magalhães doing so. I would also like to ask for the waiver of the final wording and the deadline for the complaint with regard to this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u280	At the end of the vote there will be a period for oral explanations of vote on this matter. We shall then vote on the oral request, made right now by Mrs Lara Martinho, for the waiver of final drafting and for the deadline for submitting complaints against inaccuracies, with regard to the vote on this final text. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, relating to the Bill No 706 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Determines the circumstances in which digital environment access to protected content should be removed or prevented, as well as the procedures and means to achieve this result. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the vote in favour of the PS, with the vote against the IL and with the abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on the Proposal for a Law No 110 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves anti-doping law in sport by adopting in the domestic legal order the rules laid down in the World Anti-Doping Code. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, ENP and IL.]] I wonder if we can vote on the next two final texts together. [[Pause.]] With no objection, we shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final texts presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport, relating to draft resolutions Nos 722 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently promote the expansion and rehabilitation of Raul Proença Secondary School, Raul Proença School Group, Queen's Caldas Town Hall, Leiria District, 736 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government programme retraining works in Raul Proença secondary school in the Queen's Caldas, 991 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the necessary works at Raul Proença High School in the Queen's Horses, 747 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the high school building Camilo Castelo Branco, in Vila Real, 766 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake works at the 3 Camilo Castelo Branco High School in Vila Real, 1237 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the Camilo High School White Castle of Vila Real, and 1274 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Modernization and requalification of the Camilo Castelo Branco High School in Vila Real. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We now vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on Bill No 691 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the protection of the insured person by prohibiting discriminatory practices by improving access to credit and insurance contracts by persons who have surpassed aggravated health risks, by acknowledging the « right to forget ». [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u281	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u282	Mr Nelson Silva, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u283	Mr President, it is only to inform us that we intend to make an oral vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u284	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u285	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u286	Mrs. Lara Martinho, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u287	Mr President, it is to inform us that we also want to make an oral vote on this subject, which will be made by Mr Miguel Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u288	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now, in a comprehensive final vote, vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 112 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — establishes a seal tax exemption for the restructuring or refinancing operations of the debt in a moratorium. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u289	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u290	Mrs. Lara Martinho, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u291	Mr President, it is to request that the final wording and the deadline for submitting complaints against inaccuracies be waived in respect of the final text that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u292	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this request. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on Bills Nos 678 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Approves the complementary legal framework for prevention and combating unauthorized financial activity and consumer protection and 781 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Approves a scheme for the prevention of unauthorised financial activity with a view to protecting consumer rights. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against CDS-PP and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u293	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u294	Mr. João Almeida, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u295	Mr President, I would like to inform you that we will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u296	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on Bills Nos 872 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — prolongs the deadline for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis ( sixth amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September ), 880 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — prolongs the deadline for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis ( sixth amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September ), 913 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — prolongs the deadline for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis ( sixth amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September ) and 967 / XIV/ 3. a (PAN) — The extension of the deadline for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis and guarantees transparency mechanisms in this process, amending Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u297	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u298	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u299	Mr President, I believe that we can vote on this replacement text in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u300	Thank you very much, Mr President, but, as Mr Duarte Pacheco very well reminds us, the vote on this replacement text, in the specialty, is to take the votes that have been made indirectly in the committee by the plenary. So we have to vote, firstly, in general. Let us therefore vote on this replacement text in general. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] Now, yes, we are voting on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes carried out in the specialty, in committee. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall then move on to the final vote of the replacement text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on Bills Nos 872 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — prolongs the deadline for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis ( 6 ). the amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September ), 880 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — prolongs the deadline for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis ( 6 ). the amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September ), 913 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — prolongs the deadline for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis ( 6 ). the amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September ), and 967 / XIV/ 3. a (PAN) — The extension of the deadline for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis and guarantees transparency mechanisms in this process, amending Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u301	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u302	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u303	Mr President, I would like to make an oral request to request the waiver of final wording and the deadline for filing claims against inaccuracies, in respect of the replacement text we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u304	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this request. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on two requests submitted by the BE and the PCP respectively, of a lawyer, the plenary, of the vote, in the specialty, of the Bills Nos 495 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends and improves the conditions of access and periods for granting unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit ( tenth amendment of the Legal Protection Scheme in Unemployment ) and 18 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Improves the allocation rules and changes the duration and amounts of unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit. There are requests from BE and the PCP to submit their requests, each one-minute party for this purpose. To submit the request of BE, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this bill, whose vote, in the specialty, we propose to avocado, the PS and PSD, which had made the left block proposal viable in the plenary, have given the floor for not saying in committee. [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] In 2010 and 2012 there were reversive changes in the unemployment allowance, which remain in the law: it lowered the reference value of the unemployment allowance, which was no longer linked to the salary; it lowered the period of granting the unemployment allowance in 6 months; the conditions for recourse to the social unemployment allowance, which reached only 2 % of the unemployed. It was more than time to reverse these cuts, which, to a large extent, come from the time of the troika. It was more than time and there was expectation, because the project had been made viable. But in the committee, I repeat, the PS and PSD have joined together to, one by one, bring down the reversal of these cuts, which are still in the law of protection of unemployment, thus leaving the most unprotected unemployed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u306	I believe that we can now submit the request by the CFP and then we can vote together if there is no objection. [[Pause.]] There is no objection, you have the floor to submit the request of the PCP, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are talking about strengthening the social protection of unemployed workers, improving the conditions for access to unemployment benefits, reducing guarantee periods, extending the periods of allocation of benefits and making the increase final by 25 %, which was entered in the State budget to 2021, on a proposal from the CFP. This is what we propose to vote in plenary, after the PS and PSD have plunged these proposals into committee, in the field of expertise. This is an answer that needs to be given to these workers. Moreover, in the State budget for 2021, it was necessary to decide whether the unemployment allowance should be extended so that no one would be protected, which shows the urgency of changing the unemployment allowance rules. The PS and PSD, with their votes, reject this amendment, rejecting this response to the unemployed. It is important to know whether it is this contempt that the PS wants to give these workers and whether it is this disregard for problems that workers live every day that the PS actually wants to achieve, not improving the conditions of access to unemployment benefit. It is important to know, indeed, what an answer is that the PS will give to the unemployed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u308	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u309	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. It is that the rejection of these proposals means the weakening of the social protection of these workers. Mrs. Members of the PS, of no use are announcements or intentions to change labour law when everything is maintained in the same way, in access to and payment of unemployment benefit. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u310	We shall then proceed to the vote on both requests for legal aid by the plenary now presented. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We will therefore have a period when each parliamentary group, non-attached Members and only representatives of the party have two minutes to proceed with the discussion of these two bills, whose votes in the speciality we have just voted on. I'm asking the ladies. Members who wish to speak in favour of signing up. [[Pause.]] Mr Nuno Sá, of the Socialist Party, to intervene, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u311	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying that we understand the difficulties faced by the unemployed and that we are supportive. So the issues they raise are cautioned in the State budget...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u312	They're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u313	...and also on the Dignified Work Agenda. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, we have been strengthening the social protection of unemployed workers by ensuring that more than 60 % of registered unemployed are covered. In 2016, we created the extraordinary measure of support for long-term unemployed. It is in force today, and will continue to be in force with the next State budget, the increase of the minimum unemployment allowance limit to €505 per month. It is not yet enough for a just and inclusive social state, but within days they must present your proposals and be available to negotiate them, within the State budget. The Portuguese demand that this sustained way of strengthening the social state continue and the PS is at their side, determined to continue to improve the lives of Portuguese people, ensuring that the State responds to their needs. So, let's go what matters to the future of the Portuguese. The Socialist Party, with a sense of responsibility, seriousness and courage, wants to continue the journey of the recovery and recovery of income and social protection of all: of our children and young people, of the workers, of the reformed. Which side do you want the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party? With the Socialist Party, to recover income and social protection for all Portuguese, or on the right side of « troikista»,... [[Rice and protests from PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u314	...growling, with your vote, the future cuts in orders and pensions? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests and PS counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u315	Mr Miguel Arrobas da Silva, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech. Continuation of PSD protests, CDS-PP and CH and PS counterprotests. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to allow the honourable Member to speak, otherwise neither does the honourable Member speak, nor does we have lunch.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u316	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I see that everyone is on the bench of the Socialist Party « troicada». [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the draft laws of the PCP and the Block of Left avocados by this Plenary, the CDS recalls the position it has taken on this matter. One of the most serious effects of the economic crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic was the sharp rise in the number of unemployed. Only during the months of March and April last year, the number of unemployed in our country rose 24 %. If this reality was already worrying, the reduction in the rate of unemployment benefit coverage, which measures the number of unemployed who have access to unemployment benefits and the unemployed who do not have, deserved to be looked at with equal concern. The seriousness of the moment required measures to reverse this decrease, not allowing the number of unemployed Portuguese people and without access to unemployment benefits to increase. In the context of the discussion of the National Reform Programme, the CDS presented a social emergency plan, of global scope, multidisciplinary and cross-sectional nature in all areas. The families, which in many cases lost income, in particular by one of the members who had been unemployed, were one of the priorities of this Programme, where we proposed, among other measures, to reduce by half the guarantee period for access to unemployment benefit and end-of-activity allowances. We understood that this measure could halt the rise in the number of Portuguese unemployed, and in this sense we introduced it in the form of draft law, which was rejected in the field of specialty. We have proposed that, exceptionally, the guarantee period for access to unemployment benefit, end-of-activity allowance and end-of-work allowance should be halved. The CDS proposal on this matter was clear, simple and socially fair, and therefore it should have deserved the approval of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u318	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u319	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, from BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u320	Mr President, Mr Nuno Sá, what we are discussing in the case of the Law on the Left Block, is the reversal of cuts which the troika introduced into the legislation on unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u321	Here, you've got it! [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u322	In the commission, the PS and PSD gathered together to defend the troika's heritage in the law of unemployment benefit. None of the proposals which are currently under discussion and which will be voted on today with this appeal — none! — is contained in the proposal for a State budget. None! In fact, what we think is unacceptable is that, at the end of all these years, we continue to have these cuts inscribed in the unemployment benefit law. What are we talking about? the change in value. Does it make sense that the value of unemployment benefit is not a proportion of the minimum wage, because it is a contribution benefit, and is it a provision of the indexer of social support (IAS)? Oh, my God! Does it make sense that, in contribution benefits, there are beneficiaries who receive below the poverty threshold? Oh, my God! That is why in Portugal the unemployed group is the most vulnerable group to poverty. This also has to do with the rules on the calculation of minimum unemployment allowances and the social unemployment allowance we naturally have. We can also talk about the concession period. We had to extend the period of granting the unemployment allowance extraordinarily because of the situation in which we were living. But truly, in the law of unemployment allowance today, the cut that was introduced in 2012 continues to be there, during the duration of the unemployment allowance. That's what we're proposing to cancel. Why does the Socialist Party have to join the right to maintain this legacy of cuts in unemployment benefit? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Or on condition of social unemployment benefit resources? The social unemployment allowance is now just over 2% of the unemployed. It's very little. And it is very little because the rules for calculating the condition of resources for social unemployment benefit make there many people who need the social unemployment benefit and who are excluded. This is why extraordinary benefits have been created which, in fact, no longer exist, because they have been discontinued and are not in the State budget either. It is these structural changes, this reversal of cuts that must be made. On this, in this case, the Socialist Party will vote on the right side, to defend the heritage of the troika. [[CDS-PP and CH rice.]] We are against the measures of the troika. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u323	Mr Helga Correia, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the PSD has not accompanied these two proposals as it will not accompany them here in plenary. We reaffirm what we have said during this discussion. I do not want to say that we are not in solidarity with all those people who have suffered seriously in this crisis, who have suffered when the support has not come in time to address those situations. However, we believe that these workers, in addition to valuing the question of social support, of the unemployment allowance they may be entitled to in the event of dismissal, certainly value the creation of jobs and value much more there are no job losses. in this sense, it is up to the government to create the right solutions to maintain jobs, to have more and better jobs, so that these people are not placed consecutively in unemployment. We are currently discussing the State Budget for 2022. This is the time for the Left Block and the CFP to make amendments to the State budget in this regard, to make agreements with the PS — such as those we have seen being made on the Fair Work Agenda and the Valuation of Youth in the Labour Market — and to ensure that these situations are taken care of, so that in the future these people do not have to make use of unemployment benefit. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u325	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u326	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Soeiro asked 'but why will the PS vote on the right side? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is very simple, Mr President: it was the PS who negotiated with the troika the cuts that are in force today. So how can the PS come today to say that he will vote differently when he was responsible for what he is here today? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u327	Capable of that is the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u328	That's why. The other reason is simple: the PS likes to tell you something or two and to do something completely different for you to approve the State Budget. So being asking this question to PS is the same as asking PS because it's called PS. The reason is this, Mr President. But contrary to what he says, not all the right will vote against. The arrival will abstain in relation to this project, and for only two reasons we do not vote in favour: in the reduction of guarantees this project goes in the right direction, but goes in the wrong direction when it allows to continue to feed a culture of subsistence and non-promotion of jobs and its development. This is the wrong path for these two projects, but they still have a positive sign that it is in fact to allow people who have worked and have not been able to keep their jobs helped at a time like we never lived in Portugal. That's one thing. Another thing is to continue to feed gross levels of subsidy-dependence, which prevent employment, which prevent companies from operating and leads to that in many places in our country—such as the Azores, Portalegre, Beja and Évora—
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u329	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u330	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, another thing is to continue to feed gross levels of subsidized dependence, which prevent employment, which prevent companies from operating and which leads to that in many places in our country—such as the Azores, Portalegre, Beja and Évora—we today have entrepreneurs who want to hire but who have no one to hire, because they are all receiving State subsidies. That's where the two projects fail. In the rest, we will not be opposed to its viability.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u331	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u332	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nuno Sá, the last year and a half demonstrated the need and urgency for changes to the rules on unemployment benefit. In the State budget for 2021 it was necessary to extend the time for granting unemployment allowance, because what is currently registered is short! Therefore, protection had to be extended so that workers would not be without unemployment benefits, especially at a time of greater fragility, as was the year of 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u333	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u334	After recognizing this need, the PS does what it is to ignore this whole course and ignore that need. And let me remind you that they also rejected this proposal in the State budget itself when the CFP presented it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u335	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u336	The CFP submitted the proposal under the State budget and the PS rejected it. When the CFP brings to the discussion the legislative initiative outside the State budget and the PS, after all, it already says that this is to deal with in the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u337	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u338	Mr President, the PS decides what it wants to do in relation to the unemployment allowance and the response that it is necessary to guarantee workers who are in a state of unemployment, because the words left here do not correspond to your practice or the vote they have taken on this matter. The honourable Member has come here to talk about children and young people, but he has refused, including in the vote on the PCP legislative initiative, the increase of 25% in unemployment benefits for single-parent families! That's what the ladies are talking about. Members did when they rejected the legislative initiative of the CFP. Even to conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that it is the lack of a PS response to such issues as these, with the continuation of the vote against the CFP initiative, which pushes people to the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u339	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u340	It is the lack of response to the concrete problems that hundreds of thousands of workers live daily in our country, including unemployed workers, pushing people to the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u341	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u342	PCP proposals do not push people to the right, solve people's daily problems. The PS has to decide which side you want to be on this issue: whether you want to be on the side of the solution or whether you want to be on the side of the problem. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u343	We're here!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u344	Like foxes waiting for chickens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u345	We do not register any more entries on this point, so we will proceed to the votes on additional indents III and IV. Additional script III has to do with Bill No. 495 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends and improves the conditions for access and periods for granting unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit ( tenth amendment of the Legal Protection Scheme in Unemployment ) and additional script IV refers to Bill 18 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Improves the allocation rules and changes the duration and amounts of unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit. I wonder if we can vote together. [[Pause.]] Having nothing to oppose, we shall vote together in the speciality of Articles 1. o, 2. o is 3. the draft Law No 495 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) and Articles 1. o, 2. o is 3. the draft Law No. 18 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ). [[Subject to vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u346	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u347	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u348	Mr President, I would like to say that with regard to Bill No 908 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — The fourth amendment to Decree-Law No. 252/2000 of 16 October approving the Organic Law of the Foreign and Frontier Service, which is on page 14 of our script, did not show the sense of vote of the Liberal Initiative, which is abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u349	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members are now in approval of paragraphs 63 to 71 of the Diário, concerning plenary meetings of 6, 12, 13, 14, 18, 19, 20, 26 and 27 May 2021. There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. Mr Duarte Pacheco will do well to refer to the opinions we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u350	Mr. President and Mr. Members, a first opinion is that, in accordance with the request by the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Local Criminal Court of Lisbon — Judge 5, Case No 10607 / 18.4T9LSB, Member of Parliament Helga Correia ( PSD ) is authorized to give written testimony as a witness within the framework of those cars. A second opinion is that, in accordance with the request by the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Bragança, Judge of General Competition of Vila Flor, Case No 144 / 20.2T8VFL, allow the Deputy Catarina Rocha Ferreira ( PSD ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the scope of the said cars. A third, and last, opinion is that, in accordance with the request by the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Local Criminal Court of Lisbon — Judge 5, Case No 10607 / 18.4T9LSB, allow Mr Adam Silva ( PSD ) to present a statement as a witness within the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u351	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with no requests for a word, we shall vote on these three opinions. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Let us turn to the oral explanations of vote that have been announced. First of all, the explanations of vote concerning the vote on the Bill No 104 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Reform of security forces and services engaged in internal security activities within the framework of the rehabilitation of the competences of the Foreign and Border Service. To make a statement of vote, Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u352	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP voted against the final text of the Bill No 104 / XIV / 2. the, agreed between the PS and the Left Block, which extinguishes the Foreign and Border Service ( SEF ). The PCP does not disagree with the need for separation between the police and administrative functions that currently compete with the SEF. And don't mind the creation of a new service that specifically deals with these administrative functions. Immigrants, asylum seekers and foreign citizens in general should not be treated as police cases, so it is not justified that matters relating to their stay in Portugal should be treated with a security service. However, the CFP considers that this option does not necessarily imply the extinction of the SEF as a security service, and it must be kept exclusively for the exercise of the police functions which it is responsible for. during its existence as a security service with specialized functions, the SEF gained experience in combating complex and highly organized forms of crime, such as trafficking in human beings and illegal labour exploitation, as well as in controlling national borders. Similarly, the SEF has experience of international cooperation with congeneral services from other countries, whose value should not be underestimated. The fact that some elements of the SEF have been accused of the practice of heinous crimes in the performance of their duties is something that requires a complete clearance of responsibilities and guarantees of which similar facts can never be repeated. But it is not fair to adopt a measure of extinction of this service which, at the time it occurs, is inevitably associated with these facts, creating a perception of punishment involving the SEF as an institution and all its professionals. The option to terminate the SEF and distribute its police functions by the PJ ( Judicial Police ), the PSP ( Public Security Police ) and the GNR, with the consequent distribution of its elements by security forces with nature, attributions and very different statutes, will certainly not be free of problems. To date, the following criteria are not known in this complex operation, nor the time and manner of processing. This indefinition situation, which will certainly be prolonged over time, will necessarily imply a situation of instability that is not desirable and that it is likely to create difficulties in the area of internal security that could well be avoided. Moreover, the transfer of administrative powers to the Institute of Registers and Notariado(IRN) will not be exempt from problems, and the obvious lack of human resources of this Institute is recognized, which is already causing unacceptable delays and enormous disturbances to citizens. during this legislative process, several opinions and opinions containing strong criticism of this process of extinction of the SEF were received. All SEF trade unions as well as all trade unions in the area of registers and notary criticised this measure, in which they were accompanied by the generality of the former governors of the area of Internal Administration, who understood to pronounce themselves publicly, and by strong concerns expressed by organs and structures in the area of justice, as well as by other personalities with present and passed functions with direct or indirect connection to security. Everything has been ignored.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u353	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u354	In the specialty, the CFP voted in favour of the provisions aimed at safeguarding the rights acquired by current SEF professionals and aimed at guaranteeing the fundamental rights of foreign citizens, immigrants or asylum seekers, in their relationship with the security forces who are now in charge of their processes. However, the fundamental option resulting from this legislative process, which is the extinction of the SEF, has the disagreement of the CFP, which considers it unjustified, hasty and may have negative consequences, both at the level of internal security and for the professionals involved and for foreign citizens themselves. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u355	Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u356	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This process of organic separation of the police and administrative functions of the SEF ends with the anachronism of the existence of a police exclusively for foreigners. This is a necessary step and a significant advance in the construction of greater justice and equity. Migration is not a police case. Migration is not a crime. Migration is a right and must be protected. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have been in this process with great responsibility. We assume the intransigent defence of the rights of migrant persons to quality public services, with respect for their dignity, appropriate to their needs. With the initiative of the Left Block, it was possible to approve the creation of the Agency for Migration and Asylum ( APMA ), which promotes a public service that does not discriminate, with humanist and robust care, and support for migrant persons and in situations of refuge in international areas, providing legal, humanitarian, linguistic, medical and psychological support. With these measures, we promote significant progress in the policy of reception, eliminating the unfair link between migration and risks to internal security. in this process, we also assume responsibility for defending the rights of people who work in the SEF when no other party did. We heard the alerts and concerns, which the representatives of the professionals of the different careers of the SEF expressed in meetings and hearings, and we also took into account the opinions issued by several entities in the public consultation of the project. We have taken all these contributions into account and have presented rules laying down the principles that should guide the transfer of workers and workers from the SEF to the security forces ( GNR, PSP and PJ ) to the Agency for Migration and Asylum and to the Institute of Registers and Notaries. One of our priorities was to ensure that the category, age and remuneration index are respected and that the functional content and nature of the functions previously performed are taken into account. The adoption of these measures represents a clarification of the procedure. However, we know that there is still much to be done. That is why it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen. Members, carefully follow the process, ensuring that the hearing of interested parties and the collective bargaining in the transfer of workers and workers is guaranteed. We will thus be able to guarantee security in the two dimensions that are fundamental in this process. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u357	Mr André Coelho Lima, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u358	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bad day for the Republic and for the organization of the State, in which a matter of sovereignty is treated with shocking lightness and lightness. This is a matter that, as much as you want to deny, is completely « hanged» in the unhappy and unbelievable events that happened with Ukrainian citizen Ihor Homenyuk, but which could not lead to the disorganization which, in the Internal Security System (SIS ), brought us here. The fact is that the Government said — and here Mr Internal Administration said — that it was fulfilling the Government's Programme. That was true at the time, but it is not true today. What the Government Programme often mentioned was that the Socialist Party was proposed and then the Government made an organic separation between police and administrative functions. As has already been said, all parties and all entities, trade unions and others, are in favour of organic separation between police and administrative functions. As the PSD said in due course, we are also in favour of this organic separation being transversal to the entire Internal Security System and not only located in a police force, in a security service force. But the truth is that what began as what the government designated as « the reform of the SEF », as we have always said, was the dismantling and extinction of the SEF. As we have always said, the administrative functions have entered here, in Parliament, as being transferred to a security service, the Foreign and Border Service, and leave here to a new entity, which is the Portuguese Agency for Migration and Asylum. In the week and a half, what has entered here in a certain way, comes out in a completely different way, in a change that is made of suspicion, without the due weighting, without the awareness that we are moving about the greatest importance. And, worse, it is done with prejudice, as we have now heard from Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias. [[Protests from BE Beatriz Gomes Dias.]] It's because he's a cop against foreigners, they say. But you're ignoring the fact that it's a policeman who defends foreigners, it's a policeman who defends immigrants, who protects them from trafficking in human beings. Police exist to protect and not to pursue. This prejudice is blinding you and giving effect to the State's organization in matters of sovereignty, in which there should be the greatest sense of responsibility. And in this — and I conclude, Mr President — the PSD is comfortable, because it had the position that is required in this area: it presented an alternative proposal, a proposal that transformed the SEF security service into a security force. But it hit a wall, because we saw Mr. José Magalhães, in particular on social networks, say this: "Then it is necessary to submit to the disciplinary regime of security forces and services those who have been disturbed and need to land on the ground. They lose the right to strike..." — that is, the SEF — «... they do not deserve and begin to wear the uniform of institutions with a solid culture and equipped with anti-patulea mechanisms. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u359	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u360	And Mr Magalhães continues, saying: « Some of those involved in the shameful scenes of recent months can go home without loss of rights, which they do not deserve, but which has been consecrated». This, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the PS! It's the PS against the unions, against the right to strike. It is the PS against democracy and against the sense of state.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u361	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u362	It is the PS who "sends out evil" the sense of state. It's a PS that hurts democracy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u363	Mr. José Magalhães of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u364	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the law approving the restructuring of the Portuguese border control system is undoubtedly a historic milestone and a step forward. It was very thoughtful, we had months to do that weighting. Moreover, the Government did not press for the submission of the proposal under the Government Programme. On the contrary, we have had the possibility here in the Assembly of the Republic to dialogue on this matter. We did not have the possibility to know a PSD proposal, except at the latest, last hour, taken away, indeed, we do not know well where, in a working group of antiques, some of which have not studied this matter since the last century, and whose only characteristic was to draw the right to strike to the workers of the SEF, which we fully agree with, transforming it into a security force, and leaving everything else as it was. This is immobilism. This position contrasts with the position of the CFP, for example, which is in favour of the merger of the security forces, but it did not consider it appropriate at the moment to make this amendment. However, you agree, as has been said, with many of the measures taken here. These measures are subject to practice and require a difficult operation, including the simultaneous creation of APMA and the transfer of assets from the current SEF to the security forces. I believe that the transfer to the Judicial Police is entirely obvious, but in other cases difficulties are more sensitive. However, there are those who are able to manage this process, so we trust in the capacity of the senior governing bodies of the system and the Internal Security Council itself, which exists in this matter. What is here is a turn, turn this very well synthesized by Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias. And it is also a historic turning point, insofar as, in the area of migration policy, our belief is clear, adjusted to the most advanced position in the European Union and adjusted to the creation of the European Asylum Agency, something that we will mimic in some area. We obviously need resources, because none of this will happen by magic. And the wisdom of the workers of the SEF will not fluctuate. They will not become ignorant because they are transferred from the site where they are now to the PSP or to the GNR, they will maintain their know-how, and will even receive training actions, which we foresee in this law, with additional know-how. Will this be easy, Mr. João Oliveira? He's not.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u365	He's gonna put the carpenter on the blacksmith's job!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u366	Let us not call carpenters, nor do we parallel the blacksmiths, because in this matter we are discussing a rather finer issue and a more sensitive domain. I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we have sought to make an effort for an extended consensus. We have achieved the possible consensus and an operation that is in sight of all. The promulgation of this diploma will now be in the hands of Mr President of the Republic, for which we will request the final drafting waiver. And the work has to start very quickly, because it's a job that will still require a lot of logistical operation...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u367	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u368	... and at least two legal decrees, the Agency's creation decree and the law decree to create the security information technology unit, which is absolutely fundamental to databases, which are sensitive and very important. And we thank all those who willingly collaborated in this process. We thank the others absolutely nothing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u369	All statements of vote have had too much tolerance on the part of the Bureau. We will now proceed to the explanations of vote on Bill No. 691 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ). The first explanation of vote lies with Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u370	Mr President, unfortunately, Mr Nelson Silva did not indicate that the statement of vote on the SEF was oral and not written, so with the tolerance of the Bureau, I will do both together. I will try not to exceed the time available, but certainly the Bureau will have some tolerance, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u371	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u372	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the need for restructuring of the SEF, I would like to make it clear that from the very first point of view of the NAP this was absolutely essential. However, this is a process of extreme relevance to the country, given the nature of these security functions, but also in humanitarian matters, which the NAP does not review — and hence the vote against — is in limited cases, as has been reported by the representatives of the professionals, in particular by the trade unions. These little-participated processes are therefore not rigorous and are not open to this participation in respect of the rights of workers and their protection. It is that, apart from the protection of all citizens—which is of the greatest relevance and for which the NAP has also warned—we must not forget the participation of these workers and that there is necessarily a law that welcomes and harmonises these different interests: the rights of workers, the rights of citizens and the need to have more humanitarian legislation with regard to the reception of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers in our country. We have an unprecedented humanitarian crisis, to which Portugal cannot be on the back. For Bill No. 691 / XIV / 2. we could not fail to welcome the Accreditation association and all those who, for years, have been claiming for the fair right to forget, including oncological patients or other types of pathologies that had been considered to be increased risk diseases and therefore denied other types of rights, including insurance or access to credit. The Assembly of the Republic has therefore taken a step of greater importance by adopting a more than just measure for cancer patients with HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus), diabetes, hepatitis, which thus overcome a barrier, depending on an aggravated risk of the disease, which prevents them from accessing other rights in their lives. During this process, the NAP presented a proposal which was rejected but which welcomed many of the legitimate concerns of these people. Despite being generally rejected, we have continued to work in the field of expertise so that such important matters as clarifying a sanction framework for the violation of the credit agreement and insurance contracts by people who have surpassed the aggravated risk of health would not remain outside the law, as well as the subject of updating the reference grid, every two years, in a public way, and the State must publish it on relevant sites on the Internet, thus ensuring that these people are fully accessible. Finally, thanking the association once again to believe in all the work done, as well as these people for alerting the legislator once again and for working so that this House of Democracy does not continue to ignore its rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u373	Finally, Mr Matos has the floor for a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u374	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a historic day for Portugal. And it is a historic day for thousands of people who, for years, after having overcome serious diseases, cancers, after having controlled and mitigated the effects of diseases such as HIV, diabetes or hepatitis C, see in the purchase of the house an inaccessible barrier because some wanted to profit from the disease they managed to overcome or mitigate. Well, today, the representatives of the people say « no more! They say it is time to respect these people and say that someone, 10 years after he has overcome his illness—or 5 years later, in the case of a disease diagnosed up to 21 years later, or 2 years later, in the case of a chronic disease that has managed to control—not only should he be discriminated against as he should not have to report these diseases to banks and insurers. And in addition to the regimes in other countries such as France, Belgium, Luxembourg or the Netherlands, we also say that in Portugal we will not accept discrimination between physical health and mental health. And we say more: when someone has their disease diagnosed and insurance is not renewed, insurers have to continue treatment proportionally because these people deserve dignity in treatment. Yes, it is a matter of dignity that this House of the Republic is conferring today and therefore the Socialist Party would like to welcome this initiative, to welcome the vast majority with which it has been approved and to congratulate those who have helped make it a reality. We congratulate Rita Merenda, who first brought to me and this parliamentary group this subject, the entire Acreditar association, whose survivors have fought for years for this cause to become a conquest, the Group of Activists in Treatment and the Protective Association of the Diabetics of Portugal, which, for years, brings this matter to the collation and which today they see justice done. We therefore welcome those who, from 1 January, will finally be able to have the right to their own home. There we will be to ensure that banks, insurers and others will not be able to continue to profit from the disease that they, with courage, have managed to overcome or mitigate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-22.u375	Mrs. Members, the next plenary session will be on Tuesday, 26, at 3 p.m. for the general assessment of the State budget for 2022. For this week it's all, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a good afternoon and a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 40 minutes.]]
