ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u1	Good afternoon, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries. Before we begin today's debate, Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo has the floor to make the announcement to the House of the entry into the Bureau of some initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. I inform the House that they entered the office of Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, and were admitted, Bill No. 881 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 14. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, and draft resolutions Nos 1346 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1347 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1348 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 1349 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u3	The agenda for today's session consists of a legislative agenda, required by the Arrival, for the joint assessment, in general, of the Bills Nos. 807 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ) — Amends the Penal Code and creates Article 335. o -A, defining the crime of illicit or unjustified enrichment, clarifying its objective and subjective assumptions of application, as well as the applicable criminal framework, still distinguishing according to whether or not the agent holds political office and 881 / XIV / 2. a ( Unregistered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Creates the crime of concealment of wealth in order to prevent corruption and increase public integrity. To present the draft law of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, after a few times and a few years, illicit enrichment is again discussed in this House. After a series of failed attempts, almost always boycotted by the Socialist Party, illicit enrichment arrives again at the House of Democracy. The illicit enrichment or indignation of an entire country, which increasingly looks at its representatives, those who accumulate wealth and its agents with enormous mistrust. Combating illicit enrichment is not the only way to fight corruption, but it is an important way to fight corruption. The fight against illicit enrichment is not the only tool to fight the endemic evil that destroys the Portuguese social fabric, shames the Portuguese, disengages elected and electors and keeps people from our political system increasingly. Illicit enrichment has become a tremendous stain on our society. Who did not see and who could not see, a few months ago, a former Prime Minister was washed, completely, in front of the astonished gaze of a country that saw, hour after hour, minute after minute, millions were completely hidden, washed, hidden or justified! This, in the face of the indignation of a whole country. When we discuss illicit enrichment we should know that this House has already done so several times, sometimes with the opposition of the Constitutional Court, which has spoken. But let no one doubt that representatives of the people are the only ones who are sitting here to decide. Representatives of the people and guardians of the Constitution only those for whom the Constitution serves and who themselves must be the reference of this Constitution. There is no authority on this or other land above the Portuguese people, who rule over their future. Corruption costs us EUR 21 million a year. We could say that almost 10 % of the wealth created in Portugal is lost in the tremendous and incredible sea of corruption we have in Portugal. If this data should disturb us and lead us to think about what we can do to make this country a better country, we must not forget the latest data we have and are facts. - For anyone who likes them so much. 88% of Portuguese therefore believe that the government is corrupt or that there is corruption within the government — 88%! ; 41% of Portuguese have the perception that corruption has increased in recent months in Portugal ; and 60% say that combating corruption is inefficient. It is important that we know this when we are in the government's day to come to this House to propose a new strategy against corruption in which illicit enrichment is completely out of the equation. It is important to know when the government, which has promised a great strategy to fight corruption, will come to this House in the coming days, to defend what is in everything its opposite, i.e. to forgive the corrupt if they confess. This is giving red carpet, green road and open way to corruption in Portugal! In addition, 27 % of Portuguese feel that the majority of Members are involved in corruption; 16 % believe that there are corrupt ministers; and 15 % believe that the Prime Minister himself is involved in corruption. This is the scenario of a country that could be Albania or Macedonia, but which is right here at the west end of Europe, right here in the country that could be the pearl of Europe and which has become a tremendous tremor of corruption that only destroys and only makes it stop believing those who still believed it was possible to do Portugal. Of course, we will always have the opposition of the « old men of the remnant », of those who say that we cannot do any different because the Constitutional Court does not leave, the Constitution does not want, our ancestors did not like or our grandparents did not rejoice... But the truth is that the United Nations Convention against Corruption of 2003 says: « Each State must adapt the legislative measures to criminalize...»—criminize! — «... the illicit enrichment». For those who always walk with the United Nations in hand and with the conventions behind and forward, on one side and on the other, today, when we vote on the criminalization of illicit investment, it was a good day to remember why the United Nations Convention said that we should criminalize this phenomenon. Nor should we forget that this is not the only way we can do it. For this reason, the House proposed the duplication of the penalties for corruption in Portugal, proposed that the Socialist Party honourably objected, asking how other phenomena of corruption would remain, such as corruption in sport or international corruption. It was the same as saying « do not punish the pedophiles, but how the poor of the rapists will follow... ». It's the worst of all arguments! Today, we have a unique chance to give the country a sign that this Parliament is neither sympathetic nor pleasing, it is not condescending nor accepts that there are people coming to Lisbon with one hand behind their backs and going out with hidden treasures to the rest of the country. Today, this Parliament can show to the country that it does not accept that Lisbon is coming without anything, to make political speeches, and from here it leaves with enormous fortunes in the safe of mother, father, grandmother or others. Some say no, which is populism, but outside the Portuguese know that it is time for this Parliament to finally criminalize illicit enrichment. Look at what the newspapers say and see how they shame us titles like « They come in poor and they go out rich. Will it be possible to condemn politicians in Portugal? Do not keep on seeking. ” Anyone looking at this, from the outside inside, would think that we live in the kingdom of Macedonia or in an Albania hidden by the Soviet Union ; but no, it is Portugal. It is Portugal, part of Western Europe, which cannot and does not want to criminalize illicit enrichment. Others tell us that this is the story of how this Parliament has never been able to have a consensus and that should only do us stop to think about how we have agreed on so much and we cannot agree to criminalize those who live on account of Portuguese money, hiding the income from Portuguese and stealing money that is from everyone and that should be distributed by everyone. Today, this Parliament has a unique opportunity to do so. I would like to end this speech, Mr President, by making it clear what I feel. We know that the Constitutional Court has twice adopted proposals similar to this one and we know that it has the unique role to safeguard the Constitution, but we also know that we are the leaders of this Portuguese people and that we cannot give in to that which is the essential objective of criminalizing illicit enrichment. All other attempts, which aim at transforming illicit enrichment into a kind of added declarative obligation or a subsequent tax obligation, may even come to the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, but will not safeguard the essential, which is to tell the Portuguese that it is not acceptable that whoever manages his money, who gives his face, every day, by the Republic comes in with nothing and leaves with everything without even justifying it. That was the message we should be passing today. And we should show in this Parliament an act of resistance, because we know that, in this case, history is on our side, the reason is right and those who expect us to take action are those who expect us to criminalize illicit enrichment. It's been years and decades. Several times, in several decades, this Parliament has discussed the criminalization of illicit enrichment. Even with the Government wanting to hide this day, even with the Government wanting to hide this initiative, even with the Minister of Justice coming here two days later, to pretend and to account for illicit enrichment, it is only us to this House that it is up to us to give the fundamental signal that we can, we must and we want to criminalize illicit enrichment as a fundamental struggle against corruption. This is a balanced proposal which refers to tax legislation in many areas, which refers to an increase in penalty for five years, in particular in cases of political office holders, enabling the application of cohesion measures provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure. This is a very similar proposal to what is best done in the European countries close to us. And today we can choose between taking the step or again to retreat, as always, in the face of the darkness of a country that does not leave nor succeeds in getting out of the weak, tenuous and much, very shy fight against corruption. We must and will fight corruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u5	There are no registrations for requests for clarification, you have the floor, to present your bill, Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislation in force fails to meet the objectives of combating corruption in our country, in particular with regard to the lack of criminal consequences for illicit enrichment and for the concealment of wealth. The situation is particularly alarming when almost 90 % of Portuguese people believe that there is corruption in the government and that Members in the Assembly of the Republic and the bankers are among the most corrupt. This kind of belief undermines the confidence of citizens in institutions, moving them away from political life, reducing their participation and, consequently, weakening democracy. Political office holders have an increased responsibility for transparency in their incomes. They should not only state how they should justify them and should finally be punished in case of intentional concealment of wealth. Thus, taking into account the principle of good governance of public affairs and resources, it is important to take measures that promote a culture of rejection of corruption, and therefore an effort should be made to prevent the withdrawal of economic advantages from this criminal practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u7	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 14 years ago, the CFP presented the first proposal on criminalization of unjustified enrichment that was discussed in the Assembly of the Republic. We have taken that fight forward and we will continue to beat ourselves for it. We have much to say about combating corruption and economic and financial crime, criminalizing unjustified enrichment. And we will say everything we have to say in the debate scheduled for next Friday, for which all parliamentary groups have had the opportunity to present legislative proposals and initiatives. I have only two very simple notes to leave. First of all, to say that this is just a pretense about the fight against unjustified enrichment, because anyone who really wants to fight it does not present an unconstitutional proposal like the one that Mr de Herea has put forward. And if the goal of Mr. Chaplain was to speak alone about unjustified enrichment, we will speak alone. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u9	For an intervention, Mrs Cláudia Santos, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the first plenary meeting with the agenda set by the Arrival, and the Arrival has chosen to bring us a bill that has an exhibition of motives that refers to endemic corruption in Portugal. This would be, at least at first sight, a particularly targeted initiative to combat corruption, although not only. At first sight, this intention to contribute to a debate on corruption should be welcomed. We are all very aware that corruption is one of the main problems of all democracies and one of the main challenges of our political agenda. No one already believes, as it was believed in the last century, when Fukuyama wrote The End of History, that we had finally discovered the perfect model of the government of peoples, the model of Western liberal democracies, victorious after the fall of the Berlin Wall, and that the improvement of this model would lead to the eradication of corruption itself. Today, we know it's not like that, it's not like that. We know that more corruption means fewer hospitals and fewer schools and we know that we have to continue looking for solutions. That is why, at first sight, it would be to praise the choice of enough to bring such an important issue to this debate. The problem is that arrive has chosen to bring to this debate an answer, the criminalization of illicit enrichment, which knows how to be an impossible answer. by choosing to bring us an answer to corruption that everyone knows is impossible, he chose not to bring us any answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The deception is soon in the name: illicit enrichment. We all know that enrichment, if illegal, is already a crime. What he insists on criminalizing is not illicit enrichment, what he insists on criminalizing is enrichment with unknown origin. And the problem is right there, in wanting to give illicit enrichment whose origin is unknown. There is one point, which is the starting point where we all agree, which is that incomprehensible wealth can be a symptom that it has been obtained through crime practice and that the incomprehensible wealth of public agents can be a symptom of corruption. The question to be asked is: should this incomprehensible wealth be the basis for its holders to be convicted of a crime, without proof of the crimes generating the increase in assets? Even if it is admitted that yes, that the answer must be affirmative, that the existence of this incomprehensible wealth must be criminalized, there are from here two paths: an impossible path and another possible path. The many bills that will be discussed next Friday have chosen the path that seems possible. Although with variations, they admit that it is a crime to report capital increases from a certain amount, because this concealment implies the violation of a duty of transparency. But the Arrival is alone in choosing the other way, which the Constitutional Court has already declared in 2012 and 2015 that is impossible. He chose that path in which what is criminalized is the arrest of a wealth that is inconsistent with lawful incomes. He therefore chose the path that violates the presumption of innocence, because it is based on the presumption that heritage results from a criminal activity that was not proven, but that must have existed. He chose the path that also violates the principle of legality, for lack of description by the legislator, action or omission forbidden, because what one wants to criminalize is a state — being rich — and not something, described by law, that the person has done or has stopped doing. And, therefore, by choosing a non-road, because an impossible path is a non-road, the Arrival knows that it has no bill that allows the criminalization of the concealment of wealth. I follow Mr. João Oliveira's understanding that there is no great use in wasting time on exhuming details of this bill that he himself knows he cannot avenge. What is perhaps worth stressing is why we will not approve of it. The problem of criminalization, in these terms of illicit enrichment, is that it would not be criminalizing an enrichment which proves that it is illegal, but rather an enrichment which is presumed to be illegal. There is no evidence that it is a enrichment from corruption, drug trafficking, counterfeiting or even assaulting banks. That is why condemning someone who claims he has enriched to commit crimes is so flagrantly violating the presumption of innocence and the principle of criminal legality. Let us do justice enough to recognize that you have tried to mutilate, before, the presumption of innocence through your draft constitutional review. I would like to amend Article 32 ( 3 ). the Constitution, in a sense that would have amputated the presumption of innocence to open the door to this bill, but this draft constitutional review sozobrou. Thus, only perplexity remains. Why did you insist on bringing to this Parliament a bill that we all know, even Mr. André Ventura, that is incompatible with the Constitution? [[P.S.'s applause.]] He knows that he failed to achieve the amendment of the Constitution which he considered necessary to criminalize illicit enrichment. If you know, why did you insist on presenting this project, what gave you some last-minute alterations that didn't make it better? And, above all, why did you insist on an impossible path, when there is another path that seems possible? Perhaps this bill is easier to promote in 30 seconds, perhaps voting against it requires a more effortful explanation. It is true that the presumption of innocence is not easy to explain on social networks, because it is not an intuitive thing. Each of us forms his personal convictions about life and about others and there is nothing wrong with it. Each of us is free to believe in what you want, and the presumption of innocence, which is a principle of criminal proceedings, does not prevent it. But the presumption of innocence is nevertheless counterintuitive, because it tells us that no one can be convicted only because it seems guilty and if, in criminal proceedings, this guilt is not proved, because it is necessary to understand that it is precisely the presumption of innocence that makes sense of the criminal proceedings. Without presumption of innocence, this set of acts, to which we call « process», or it is not necessary, because the person is punished without trial, or is just a farce oriented towards the confirmation of impressions or public complaints. Therefore, the presumption of innocence is the condition of the existence of a true criminal process; it is, at the same time, its cornerstone and its touchstone. And it is like democracy: however, at certain times it may seem difficult to live with it, it would certainly be much worse to live without it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that there are those who are willing to live without democracy, but we are not. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But perhaps all this can be said in a simpler way: the presumption of innocence and the principle of legality enshrine a human right, the human right that any person has not to be deprived of his liberty without the State prove his fault in accordance with the law. And, in the concepts of legality and presumption of innocence, centuries of struggle for freedom live. We may, after all, have something to thank him for at the end of this plenary meeting. When we stand up to vote against this bill, because it violates the presumption of innocence and also the principle of criminal legality, we will together be strengthening our respect for the rule of law and our common commitment to human rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our challenge is to combat corruption in the name of the rule of law, not against the rule of law, until without the rule of law there is never less corruption, which may be more corruption, more well hidden. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I finish by saying that fighting corruption by defending the rule of law is not the challenge of the bill of arrival that we discussed this Wednesday. This will be the challenge of Friday for all Members and all Members. Members, the vast majority of this Parliament, from left to right, who believe in human rights and who are proud of the history of criminal justice in our country. On July 10, 1867, a letter that Victor Hugo wrote to us was published in the Newspaper. Victor Hugo, who at the time was the most acclaimed author of the Miserables and Notre-Dame de Paris, through his friend Brito Aranha, wrote to all Portuguese soon after we abolished the death penalty. He referred to us as « a small people with a great history» and said to us: « I congratulate your Parliament, your thinkers, your writers and your philosophers. I congratulate your nation. Portugal sets the example for Europe. Freedom is an immense city, of which we are all citizens». There are moments in the life of a people where some forget who we are. Reading letters like the one Victor Hugo wrote can help us to remember not only who we are, but also the legal-penal heritage that is ours and that we have a duty to honor. [[P.S., Member of BE Fabíola Cardoso and Member of Parliament not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u11	Before we move on to the next intervention, I would like to say that the registration of presences we have made so far has not been made as a record for voting purposes, but it should have been. So if we don't have to make a new record, I would ask you. Members who have already registered to disagree with that same register and make a new one so that it can be considered for the purpose of voting. So, the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, if you're registered, you'll be able to leave the Chamber by now. Let's just take a brief break due to the noise of the movement, simultaneously, of the terminals. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to continue. To give the next intervention, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This afternoon's agenda is a trick. We all knew long ago about the agenda for next Friday for a debate on combating corruption, in which legislative initiatives from all forces with parliamentary representation will be discussed. The comparison of proposals, the identification of convergences and differences, which is why democracy is taking place. He knew about this agenda and, instead of putting his proposal into dispute with all the others, he made a trick, marking for today what will be discussed on Friday—parliamentary juggling, regiment trick, political game. The arrival much likes to claim itself as a party against the system, but in fact, it shows itself as a party of the worst that the system has — tactical boy-spertism, primary partisan — when the responsibilities for the construction of determined majority against corruption are more demanding. It is from this majority that the country needs to take, now, the step that, long ago, should have taken, criminalizing the concealment of heritage increases by those responsible for political positions and high public positions. The Left Block is fully determined, as it has always been, to create conditions for this step to be taken and for a wide majority to give it the political force that corresponds to the social demand force it has. So it will be on Friday — and not today — that we will present our project and our arguments, as we undertake to do. The small competition between partisan egos is not what encourages us, we leave it to the Arrival, because it is this and only the championship that he wants to play. Today, we will only say that the worst way to contribute to the fight for the criminalization of unjustified enrichment is to propose unconstitutional solutions that create the illusion of force, but that they are disbanded by nothing because of their impossibility to become law. The bill of the Arrival is sick of obvious and gross unconstitutionalities, and Mr. André Ventura knows better than anyone else. So the game comes with a proposal that will not count on the solution of this problem and will only create noise. Game, trick, noise, illusion — there is a part of the system to act. The Left Block does not want noise without consequences, even if the criminalization of unjustified enrichment is approved. They do not count with us for the championship of decibels, they contain with us for a serious and determined action in the fight against corruption. This is the commitment of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u13	Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think we all agree that it is absolutely unacceptable that there are cases of holders of political office who, when they come out of office, have increased wealth and unwarranted incomes, almost as if money were merely magic, and without that being really punished. This is all the more serious as it is known to all of us in a country where, say international studies, 48 % of people have already used so-called "cons" and 80 % of entrepreneurs have considered that payment of bribes and the use of privileged contacts are the easiest ways to obtain certain public services. This situation, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is absolutely regrettable and requires measures to prevent conflicts of interest and greater transparency within declarative obligations and exercise of functions, but also punishment. And today we are talking about punishment. We discuss whether or not illicit enrichment should be punished. And here the position of the NAP could not be clearer: there is no doubt that it must be criminalized the increase in the heritage of a political position holder who cannot be reasonably identified by itself. Of course, because this is a requirement that stems from international law and that our country, year after year, has failed. The United Nations Convention against Corruption, ratified by our country in 2007, states that « each State Party should consider the adoption of legislative and other measures that are necessary to classify as a criminal offence, when intentionally practised, the illicit enrichment, i.e. the significant increase in the heritage of a public agent for which it cannot provide reasonable justification for its legitimate performance ». This provision, so well implemented, for example, in France, Hong Kong or South America, continues, unfortunately, to meet in our country, essentially because of the lack of will of the PS and PSD. We know that the criminalization of unjustified enrichment is complex. We know that it has already been attempted twice and in both cases it has been considered unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, which held that, in terms of its non-protected legal good, it disregarded the principle of proportionality and, by not identifying a prohibited action or omission, violated the principle of legality. The proposal from the CFP, which is voted on on Friday, insists on these errors and is therefore a mere populist number to see, and does not really want to solve this serious problem in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u15	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u16	Without prejudice to our understanding that this should be a matter discussed in the context of a constitutional review, without undermining the essential principles of the State of democratic law, we believe that, in the light of the constitutional framework in force, it is possible to criminalise the significant increase in the heritage of a political office holder. That is why, on Friday, we are taking the debate an initiative which guarantees an extension of the declarative obligations of the holders of political positions, demanding them, at the time they leave office, and until three years later, to declare, for example, the promises of advantage, as well as the facts that generate relevant property changes. We also want the criminalization of those who do not deliver the statement of income or hide property and, of course, we do not forget the offers and hospitality, proposing imprisonment for those who hide the receipt of offers and services in the exercise of public office. At the same time, we propose that all unwarranted capital increases, once detected, become subject to tax punishment, which ensures that they are taxed at 100 % under IRS (tax on income of natural persons). Thus, it is ensured that the full repayment of the undue capital increase and that a regime is improved which, in terms of its present state, tells the offender that it even compensates to infringe, because it only has to return 80% of what it has received improperly, something which, at least, gives a wrong signal to civil society. Before I finish, I cannot but point out that today we see the Arrival, which so often boasts of being the arrears of the fight against corruption, to present in plenary, almost for the first time in almost two years of mandate, a proposal which, despite being unconstitutional, aims at combating corruption. We do not forget that when the NAP proposed here the regulation of lobbying, measures for the transparency of affiliation in discreet character associations, a new model for the appointment of the members of the Board of Directors of the Banco de Portugal, the creation of a portal of transparency for European funds or the limitation of the links of Members to social bodies of football clubs, and the arrival of nothing, not to mention the cases in which it did not even participate in the debate. More serious was when the arrival itself joined the PS and the PSD to lead the NAP proposals aimed at the end of the visasgold, which are considered by the European Parliament and the European Economic and Social Committee as one of the major foci of corruption in our country, or a cost-benefit assessment of the Madeira Free Zone regime, considered by various experts a focus of money laundering that has already served as a laundry service to Angolan cleptocracy, football magnates or BES-related companies ( Banco Espírito Santo ). Mr. André Ventura, being with people and looking out for their interests is not done with populist daily speeches and a weak position with the strong and strong with the weak. Be made, showing consistency. And consistency is not to preach the fight against corruption and then, in practice, not to vote in accordance with the proposals made in this House. Some doubts as to what the word 'coherence' means and the NAP is at hand to clarify. [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u17	Mr João Oliveira wrote to ask for clarification. It happens that Mr Nelson Silva no longer has time to answer, so I ask Mr João Oliveira if he is given time to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u18	Mr. President, the CFP gives up for one minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u19	All right, Mr. Deputies. So, Mr. João Oliveira, you have the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u20	Mr President, Mr Nelson Silva, I did not think any more to intervene in the debate, but your speech obliges me to make a request for clarification, for which I hope to get an answer. The honourable Member made a comparison between two initiatives that have nothing to do with each other. And now you're going to have to justify how you make that comparison. The honourable Member will have to explain how it compares the initiative of the Arrival, which aims to arrest those who have a certain income or heritage, with a proposal from the CFP, which creates a tax obligation, whose failure to comply with the practice of a crime. Mr. Deputies has to explain how it compares a draft law of the Arrival which reverses the burden of proof and obliges people to make an almost negative test in relation to a presumption of the practice of the crime they have already committed with the draft law of the PCP, which, by setting the requirement of a declaration obligation and verifying the failure to comply with that obligation, determines, in these circumstances, the verification of the practice of a crime, without inverting the burden of proof. Mr. Deputies will have to explain where he finds the violation of constitutional rules in the PCP bill in comparison with the bill of arrival. And even I will make it easier for the honourable Member to reply: tell us what is the article of the PCP bill that is equal to the draft laws of the Arrival which you mentioned here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u21	In time given by the PCP, you have the floor to answer, Mr Nelson Basilio Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u22	Mr President, Mr João Oliveira, I am grateful for your request for clarification. Sir, what I said in my speech was not that it's exactly the same... [[PCP protests.]] Actually, if you're the gentlemen. Members have heard me well—and, if you wish, I can deliver to you my intervention, which is written and from which I have not deviated even one centimeter — the only comparison I make is that both the PCP bill and the draft law of the Arrival, the latter here today under discussion, are injured at the time of the effective application of the law itself to solve the problem. [[PCP protests.]] And so much so that, including, I said that the PCP bill, which will be voted on next Friday, also contains some constitutional errors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u23	But what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u24	... that are not the same as the draft law of the Arrival. So being trying to say that I said that the PCP bill and the bill of arrival are exactly the same thing I think reveals a little political dishonesty. But we'll be here to discuss it. [[The CH Member's laughs, André Ventura.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u25	For an intervention by the PSD, Mr. Carlos Peixoto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If anyone imagines that with the criminalization of the concealment of wealth — also known as ‘unjustified enrichment’ or ‘illegal enrichment’ — it will end or significantly reduce corruption in Portugal, I think it is being optimistic. It is advised to say, from now on, to lower expectations, that this step which is taken by all, from the left to the right of this Parliament, is not an egg of Colombo, is no cure for all evils, nor is it no miracle recipe. Anyone who wants to prejudge and has « two toes of head» will only be unable to catch. And let's see if, with these initiatives, which are laudable, we are not making life more difficult for politicians and high-ranking holders of serious and honest public office and the corrupt one escapes in it. Let's see if that's not what's gonna happen! We'll do everything we can to avoid it. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, while the state fattens, wages increase, bureaucracy increase and the quality of democracy decrease, corruption will continue to proliferate. Still, we are faced with an advance that we believe must be marked and underlined. Investigating a holder of a political office or a public office, who, consciously and deliberately does not want to justify the origin of his sudden wealth, is an imperative of decency and transparency. For us, he only performs these duties who he wants. They are not yet a kind of compulsory military service or compulsory schooling.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u27	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u28	Anyone who wants to exercise them knows in advance that he is subject to specific obligations and, if he does not wish to subject himself to them, he has good medicine: he does not apply or does not accept the appointment. It's very simple. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u29	Therefore, for the PSD, it makes every sense that the need for justification of the origin of the property changes exceeds 50 minimum wages is expected. For everyone to know outside, we're talking about 33 250 €. But what is extraordinary and cannot happen next to this debate is that many of those who have now come running to the marketplace of honesty and probity — let's be serious — have only done so to the blight of a process that has outraged the country and that has as specific target and addressee a former socialist prime minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u30	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u31	All those who, during all these years, have not come to the game, now, after they have walked away from these battles and even faced those who wanted to stop them, here they are, here they come. But if there is a party — this prides us very much — with scrolls and history in this matter and in this struggle for the criminalization of the concealment of heritage, this party is the PSD. Do you want to see? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Mr. João Oliveira, in 2007 there was only one party that had this concern, and this party is called PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u32	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u33	PCP only came in 2009! Let's put things the way they are! He only came in 2009! The PCP did something decent: in 2007 when the PSD proposed the criminalization of illicit enrichment, the PCP voted in favour. And the Left Block too, and the CDS... Besides, everyone voted in favour, minus one party—I don't need to tell who it is, they'll find out. In 2009 the PSD presented the same proposal and, after a positive signal, because the proposal was generally presented, this party, which in 2007 did not want the criminalization of illicit enrichment, in the committee possibly created to follow this phenomenon, also voted against. What was the party? Oh, my God! Guess what? It was the Socialist Party, it's obvious! In 2012 the PSD, together with the CDS, resubmitted the same project. It was approved by all, but there was a party, the indisputable Socialist Party, who voted against! In 2015, the PSD, insistent, returned to cargo. at that time, the Socialist Party was already accompanied by the one who would become the management, which would become a little later, and this management voted against our proposal to create the crime of illicit enrichment. The Socialist Party will say, in response to this, that the Constitutional Court has vetoed the law of illicit enrichment. It's true! That's true, but that's not all! [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u34	You know why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Because in the last 14 years, the PS has been government for 10 years and, in the Government, the PS could have found an alternative to the law of illicit enrichment which the Constitutional Court has led, but never came with that alternative. In fact, the government has even excluded the illicit enrichment of this recent strategy which has adopted to combat corruption and has only now presented a proposal — this is the truth — because it has realized that it was alone and ill-accompanied. He realized, therefore, that he soon came to present this proposal at the end of 14 or 15 years of PSD struggle. Why this whole story? It is to tell this House that the PSD is in this debate with an enormous authority, with a huge desire to discuss this issue, and is doing so with a raised head and a washed face. There is no problem with that. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] We do not ignore, as is evident, the arguments that led to the leaders of the Constitutional Court and therefore we have presented a project that we consider to be prudent and cautious. from here to two days, it is true, on Friday, we will discuss all the projects with greater detail, but there is one thing that can now be advanced and that is absolutely irrefutable: the PSD chose to present a project that has an important pedagogical effect and that has a potential deterrent that I think distinguishes it from the other projects. It is that the PSD project requires mandatory communication to the Public Prosecutor's Office in the case of the holder of the political office or public office not to justify the origin of its change in assets. Everyone realizes that this communication is sufficient to divert any candidate from any temptation not to justify these incomes, because only a kamikaze does not present the justification, knowing that, next, it is investigated by the Public Ministry and is soon labeled, in the public square, of criminal. Sometimes, with small steps, we find great solutions. Perhaps the PSD, with this project, can find, from the psychological, sociological point of view, of the example, of duty, the most appropriate solution—it is not necessary to be very muscular, but appropriate—to purify and hygienicize public life and democratic life. What we mean is that sooner or later the law will be passed. We know that. There is not a single party which has not submitted its proposal, therefore, even though the details are in detail — and it is in the heart of specialty that we will see whether this happens or not — the fact is that there is an interest in the country so that the wording to be approved is, firstly, effective and secondly, that it has constitutional conformity. We therefore sincerely believe that no one should adopt inflexible, dogmatic positions on this matter and that everyone should be open - we understand this - to find consensus at the stage of the discussion in the field of expertise, which will follow. It's another law, there's no doubt about it, and we can't get rid of the laws. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think everyone will agree with this: what is needed for the country is not so much law in this area; what is needed for the country and for justice are its agents, they are means, they are instruments and they are resources. And there—don't hurt me—the government has taken a step, it's stopped in time. They note that, two years ago, it has approved the creation of the transparency entity and has not yet been able to create and establish within two years. How do you then admire this impasse, for example, that the index of The Economist declassifies Portugal in the category of "fully democratic country"? Oh, my God! Or, then, how do you admire that in the Corruption Perception Index, we are in places that do not dignify us? That's why, because of this incapacity! So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, ladies and gentlemen, fill the Journal of the Republic with the laws they understand, but we have to change seriously, and we must also change our attitudes — or, then, everything will remain in it, the country will continue to walk back and, in the overwhelming majority of the indicators, will continue to be badly placed, which, perhaps unjustly, creates an external and international idea that may not be in line with what we deserve. But the truth is this: that the government is taking care of, that's where it is! And it is a pity, because I think that our country deserves, in this matter, a more courageous, more ambitious option and, essentially, examples. The examples have to come, and they have to come from the government, but they have not come, as we will show to satiety in the Friday debate. in this case in particular, I think that all parties are in harmony with the need to criminalize the non-justification of the concealment of wealth. I therefore believe that we will take a giant step towards placing this issue as a priority in the fight against corruption. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u35	Mr. Carlos Peixoto, Mr. João Oliveira, of the CFP, signed up to request clarifications. You have the floor, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u36	Mr President, Mr Peixoto, my request for clarification is very simple. I would like to know if you did the research on the database that you should have done to seek unjustified enrichment, because you are not right. It is true that the PSD presented in 2007 the Bill No. 374 / X / 2. the, in which it was predicted the criminalization of illicit enrichment, but did so already with the heavy consciousness, after having plummeted the Bill No 360 / X / 2. a, from the PCP, which was presented well before the Bill No. 374 / X / 2. a! And it was in the Bill No. 360 / X / 2. which the CFP brought to the Assembly of the Republic the first discussion on the criminalization of unjustified enrichment. The title of the project did not have those words. That is perhaps why you did not find it in the research you did on the database. But he is there and proposes the creation of Article 374. o -A, which unfortunately only did not see the light of day in the legislative process which was then concluded because the PSD opposed it. Therefore, Mr. Carlos Peixoto, my request for clarification is to know whether or not Mr. Deputies was actually aware of this, and whether it was a lapse when he said that he was the PSD, in fact, taking that initiative. But I am referring to another issue, which is even more relevant. When, on Friday, we discuss the solution to the criminalization of unjustified enrichment, which has no problems of unconstitutionality and which allows the fight against this reality from a criminal point of view, within the framework that the Constitution provides, what answer is this time that the PSD will give? It will give the same as it gave when the Bill No. 360 / X / 2 went down. the, which the PCP presented in 2007, with this pioneering character, for the criminalization of unjustified enrichment? Or is it going to take a different position this time and actually contribute so that this reality can be punished criminally and that there can be a solution to that effect? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u37	Mr. Carlos Peixoto has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u38	Mr President, Mr João Oliveira, thank you very much for the question you have put to me. I have here the initiatives that entered the X Legislation and I see, in fact, the Bill No. 360 / X / 2. a, from the PCP, which not only did it have the scope of the Bill No 374 / X / 2. a, PSD, as it does not even have the same title.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u39	You have to read more than the title!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u40	It is only because the CFP gave this project its title « Legal measures to combat corruption and economic and financial crime ». The title of the PSD project was « Illicit enrichment crime ». But, Mr, that is not what really matters. We're not in this competition to know who came first. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u41	We're not and we've never been. We are perhaps more concerned about understanding who was consistent and who wasn't. It is the PCP that has to explain why, throughout all these years, it has always voted alongside the PSD when the PSD proposed the crime of illicit enrichment and, when it became in management, or when the management was on the edge of its eyes, it reversed, gave a reel,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u42	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u43	...and went on to vote against what the PSD proposed. That's what you have to explain! So it was not a question that you had to ask me, I am asking Mr João Oliveira the following question: why did the CFP change its position when it passed from the opposition to the government's cruising? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u44	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens believe that combating corruption is a fight that is imposed on ethical grounds and imperatives and also to improve our democratic life and to make our institutions more credible. It is a struggle in the defense and affirmation of a culture of responsibility, in which, in our view, it is of decisive importance that the creation of the crime of unjustified enrichment and concealment of wealth should be created. We well know that the creation of this type of criminal will certainly not be the solution to end corruption, but it will take on a decisive importance for success in its fight because, in fact, the impunity that citizens so often are witnessing in the face of the strange enrichment of people who perform public functions does not only weaken the idea of justice, it also discredits the whole of democratic institutions, creating strong mistrust over their functioning. But, in the Greens' perspective, the solution to be found for those who really want an effective and serious fight against corruption must be built in such a way as not to leave any doubt as to respect for constitutional guarantees, both at the criminal level and at the procedural-criminal level, from the outset, as well as the presumption of innocence and all that it presupposes, in particular the matters relating to the burden of proof. As we all remember, today's discussion is not new. It has often been sought to legislate with the aim of criminalizing unjustified enrichment, even if not successful, or because the proposals were rejected in this House or, as was the case with the last legislative proceedings on the subject, because the texts approved in Parliament were judged unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. In fact, the 2015 process already had a more than predictable end, as it repeated the 2012 formula, which had already been declared unconstitutional, so it did not, in a way by the PSD and the CDS, appear that something was being done when it was right and known that there would be nothing to strengthen the legislative way of preventing and combating corruption, which, moreover, was confirmed by the new decision of unconstitutionality by the Constitutional Court. And of the same sin suffers from this legislative initiative of the Arrival, as, moreover, has already been warned by the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, which considers that the project of the Arrival is the greatest legal-constitutional problems, precisely because it reproduces a solution already piped by the Constitutional Court twice, one in 2012 and the other in 2015. It was also taken into account these two decisions of the Constitutional Court that the Greens chose to follow another way to achieve the same objective and whose discussion will take place next Friday. And we chose this path precisely because it seems to us that there are no risks of unconstitutionality, as happened with the proposals of 2012 and 2015 and how it would certainly happen if the project of the Arrival were eventually approved here—as, moreover, we all know, including Mr André Ventura, who is tired of knowing. It is true that the fight against corruption presupposes the consecration of the crime of illicit enrichment and concealment of wealth, and whether it is true that Portugal has undertaken, at the international level — particularly in the Merida Convention — to include the crime of unjustified enrichment in our legal order, it is also true that we must walk through solutions that offer no doubts of constitutional conformity, because otherwise the outcome is more than predictable, it is a waste of time. Therefore, we do not follow up on the proposal from the Arrival, which we will vote against, until, in good rigour, the proposaler's intention is certainly not to criminalize the unjustified or illegal enrichment, the proposal is not to combat corruption, because, if so, it did not present a proposal with an announced death, which has already been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court twice. The intention to be visible is only to make the number to which Mr Ventura is getting used to — the custom, therefore. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u46	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u47	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The first thing I have to say in this debate is that, regardless of all the other considerations, the subject itself and its relevance to Parliament should demand that we seriously discuss it, and the first question is whether or not it is relevant to criminalize unjustified enrichment, it is important that Parliament pronounce itself on this matter. This is the first issue, regardless of everything else, and it seems that it is sometimes forgotten in this debate. It is clear that, as has already been said — and I agree very much — the fight against corruption is not done here alone. I also said now, and I agree, that, finally, without means, without technology, without researchers, we can create the most extraordinary laws in the world—and not all countries have adopted this solution, as we know, are very few countries that have such solutions—but we are not going there. A few years ago they were responsible for the Judiciary Police, already with this government in office, speaking in suffocation in the fight against corruption, which we must never forget in this debate. What is more, it is curious — as has already been said — that the Government should present a vast legislative package to combat corruption, which we will discuss here on Friday, together with the parties' initiatives, and it has precisely left this issue out, which has not been concerned about it and has not been interested in it. Interestingly, he has left it out but it is a little 'hidden cat, with the proposal of the Socialist Party from outside', so to speak, because the Government does not present but comes the Socialist Party to present a proposal precisely to cover what the Government has not done, or what it does not want to do, in this matter. I also wanted to say that this is not a new issue. And Mr. João Oliveira is right when he says that the Portuguese Communist Party, in several versions and several times, has come forward with initiatives, and always in a very declarative logic. Therefore, it was not the crime of unjustified enrichment, as was most recently proposed by PSD and CDS, it was another model, which, moreover, resume with all legitimacy. Regarding the CDS, I mean that we proposed, in 2012, together with the PSD, and then again, in 2015, also with the PSD, the creation of this type of criminal. We didn't do it lightly. We did so after many doubts, after a long time of work, after a lot of legal analysis, after hearing a lot of people and in a serious way, to try, in fact, that this crime was created and there was no unconstitutionality. But it's not easy. With the present Constitution, with the Constitution we have—I am not saying whether it is wrong, I do not pronounce myself on it—with the constitutional model we have, it is not indeed easy, but we have done it seriously. And that's why we went there twice, moving from the first to the second. Now going to the question of arriving, I would say that if you arrive with this, essentially, to make a number — and I do not have any great doubts about it, because neither I nor Mr Ventura, nor anyone has any doubt about the success of this initiative today, of political affirmation, would say that the counternumber is even worse, than any one against the number we are witnessing today is even worse. Why? They say it's tactical, that it's unacceptable to use a force for this, that it's juggling. Finally, we heard everything, as if the authors of these expressions had never done any juggling in the past. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u48	Like they never did! Secondly, it's as curious as this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I have been, because of inference of functions, at the Conference of Leaders and there were two parties, and not one, who wanted to anticipate this matter, was the Arrival that wanted to anticipate today, on 23rd, and the Socialist Party who wanted to anticipate tomorrow, on 24th. In the meantime, the Socialist Party — and well — gave up. Well! He gave up, but the intention was the same, Mr. João Oliveira. When we arrived there, Mr. André Ventura's intention was the same as the PS, i.e., they both wanted to discuss illicit enrichment before the discussion of the corruption package. Therefore, some of the criticisms here have nothing to do with the subject—because I think that the subject is recognized by all, is relevant— nor with the initiative in particular, have to do with the author alone. I understand that, but I think it is preferable not to discuss these terms, it is better to look at the matter and discuss it seriously, under the penalty of not discussing anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u49	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u50	Too bad we didn't discuss anything, I repeat! I do not agree with numerous proposals from various parties and do not agree with much of the proposals of the Arrival, but I am not going to say that I am not discussing just because of the author, because otherwise I would not discuss any proposal coming from the left-wing benches in front of me, whose democratic respect is equal to that of any elected member present in this Chamber. Moreover, one thing must be said: the proposal of the Arrival, with some amendments — and I also do not commend the merit of Mr Ventura — is broken down, is on the way to the copy paste, the proposal that PSD and CDS have made, as the Advocates' Order says — and well! — in its opinion, and which has been plunged, from a constitutional point of view, by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, there are no major differences there with Decree No. 369 / XII, which is then plunged by Judgment No. 377 / 2015 of the Constitutional Court. It is the same proposal, and I am not going to put myself here to follow it, it is a proposal of parties — and I think they will have no doubt — of traditional center and centre-right, so all this rhetoric that this is the end of the world by its content is absolutely triggered. It doesn't make any sense! Has it been declared unconstitutional? Yes! It has two or three constitutional problems: first, the question of presumption of innocence, which is difficult to circumvent; second, the question of burden of proof, which is also difficult to circumvent, and in the latest version of the PSD and the CDS until the essential question for the Constitutional Court was the definition of the legal good to be protected. That was the essential issue. Having said that, we do not persist in this matter. The proposal we will bring here on Friday is, like other parties—and with some inspiration, even from the Association of the Portuguese Judges' Union in the various proposals we have seen—a proposal that makes the referral to the declaration and to exclusivity at the same time. We therefore do not insist on a matter which is unconstitutional and we have not yet proposed an amendment to the Constitution. But some diabolization of the proposal from the Arrival does not make any sense either. It is important to deal with this seriously and to recognise that, obviously, this is a political number, that the Arrival has not worked much to reach this proposal because it has taken on a proposal that already existed, extended it from the holders of political positions to everyone, and even worsened the penalties — basically this is as simple as this to bring this proposal here. And the arrival took advantage of the power schedule to say: "We were the first, alone, and we were plunged." This is the objective and will be achieved by the proposing party, i.e. to be the first to present and be plunged. So it's no more than that and it's not worth making a movie around this. Or, in fact, we want to find a solution or not; if we want to find a solution, let's discuss it, let's work it in the field of expertise...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u51	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u52	... and this will be done, in my opinion, on Friday, seriously, as is required of us and as is our parliamentary responsibility. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u53	20 values in the approach!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u54	You have the floor for a new speech, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u55	Mr. President and Mr. Members : I make an intervention because, by rejection, the parties present here have decided not to make requests for clarification. I think it was the first time that happened and I thank you very much. Every step that they take in order to destroy yourselves is an enormous, extraordinary step that I thank and that the Portuguese out there will recognize. But I am still going to reply to Mr João Oliveira, telling him something in this speech. He said that this was a pretense, that the fight against illicit enrichment is a pretense and that we would speak alone. You know, Mr. Deputies, the arrival is never afraid to talk alone, because it is still talking to millions of Portuguese people out there, who are watching the PCP's refusal, who for years have been talking about illicit enrichment, discussing illegal enrichment today. But it was also good for the honourable Member to explain why in 2015 he voted against illegal enrichment, because he came here to this Parliament to vote against, alongside the Socialist Party, on May 29—because he likes databases so much, go confirm—when he voted against illegal enrichment. I would also like to tell you, Mr President, that you have talked a lot about the CFP project, but you can ask me for clarification, and I will give it to you, because if you want to talk about law, we are talking about it. Your project is no longer more than an addition of declarative duties, which basically says that whoever has a heritage that no one can explain how it appeared, that it has appeared by chance, as the Left Block says that it has « fallen from heaven», it is sufficient to send to the Tax and Customs Authority, within the prescribed time limit, a declaration for tax purposes, after the beginning of the effects of this law. Look how nice! I have a heritage that I don't know how to explain, what do I do? I make Model 10 of the IRS: "Look, it was this way, the heritage fell from heaven, now it is here. It was an increase of Category G, take it with this and forget it! » This is the PCP project. And if you want to ask me for clarification, ask me that I have here your project and I know that if there is something this project does not do is fight corruption and fight illicit enrichment. Mrs Cláudia Santos, I had to keep a large part of this intervention for you. When he says that the incomprehensible wealth in a political position should be criminalized, in fact, it is true. But that's just the Socialist Party's talk, because every time it came here it voted against. With Victor Hugo's letters or no Victor Hugo's letters, and if you want Lenin's letters, I also send you, the truth is that the PS just wants to vote against. José Socrates said it wasn't because it wasn't the time, Antonio Guterres said it wasn't because the question isn't being put out there and Dr. Cláudia Santos says it's not because Victor Hugo doesn't like it and because he really likes our criminal justice system and our tradition. Everyone picks the reasons you understand! Open... The truth is this: the PS does not want to criminalize illicit enrichment, because it was intended, on Friday, to bring illicit enrichment here. Or are you going to say that you don't have the means to do it, with a hundred and I don't know how many Members to prepare a project? Oh, my God! I had every form and time to have done it and I didn't want to do it. He said that the presumption of innocence is an admirable reason. And you are undoubtedly Mrs. Deputy. Therefore, in our project, we asked about the justified reason, which would be up to us to justify how that heritage happened. There's no other way to do this! The other way is to follow this path of the CFP, which is to increase reporting obligations and criminalize a declaration obligation. That, yes, is a trick — a criminal trick! — because it means that the crime is not in enrichment is failing a declarative obligation. The honourable Member knows this very well, because this has already been said not by me but by many people before me, and much better than the two of us sitting here today. So if they say so, and the honourable Member well knows that they do, what we are doing with these proposals is criminalizing added declarative obligations. And that, with a prison sentence of up to five years, is laughable, laughable in the face of our legal order and laughable in the face of the legal orders out there, as you know. We must have the courage to resist and say that what we are criminalizing is those who enrich without justification. That is what we should have the courage to do: to criminalize those who do not have a minimum of justification, because, in fact, money does not fall from heaven. If I start boating and if I arrive by plane to Parliament, we can't say that it's all normal, with my deputy salary. So that's what we have to say, without popes in the language—of course, for the Portuguese to realize that this is what we want to criminalize—and not walk around here with Victor Hugo's letters and Pope's letters, because what we need is to criminalize illicit enrichment. Mrs. Member, in the film Feios, Porcos and Maus there was the following expression: « go looking for work and ask the Virgin Mary never to find it». This is what the PS does with illicit enrichment, i.e., comes here to talk about Victor Hugo, about this and about it, but when it comes to voting: "Alas, it is democracy; woe, it is human rights; woe, it is the presumption of innocence". Good luck explaining out there what is the presumption of innocence in the fight against corruption and against illicit enrichment. Mr. José Manuel Pureza, I also reserved for you a significant part of this intervention because I said—and I firmly, with that firmness that characterizes it—that this schedule was a trick. I have tried to remind myself of what the agendas of the Block have been over the past few years. In addition to the usual bullshit of nationalizations, which always come to the trailer—then the PCP comes behind the Block, etc. etc. , — I think there is a party which cannot speak of tricks in the Rules of Procedure and in the Statute, Mr Deputies, is the Left Block. And don't make me talk anymore! ... I think that right now, the Block talks about tricks in the Rules of Procedure and the Statute is not the most appropriate, but that will remain with your conscience. Now, there is something to which you have to answer about whether or not you want to or not — said the honourable Member — to criminalize this behaviour in political office holders. What about the others? I repeat, what about the others? Oh, my God! Stay out of the left block project? The Block itself, which put posters throughout the whole country to say, « My lords, money does not fall from heaven! """"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" """"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" What about the others, Mr. Deputies? Oh, my God! And the others who enrich at the expense of Portuguese money and can't ever explain how the money appeared to them? Oh, my God! If money does not fall from heaven, as the Left Block says, they should have the courage today to vote in favour of this project, because it considers and touches on the real point, which is to criminalize those who enrich without reason, give a justification for it, and combine it with tax declarations, which was what should be done. If the honourable Member were consistent with what he has defended today and in the past, he would vote in favour of the draft of the Arrival. Mr Nelson Silva, you will excuse me for having to mention this to you but you see that the honourable Member has arrived here a short time ago. Today they left him alone and I don't know if it's already because of that or if it's because of what I'm going to say now. He said here that this proposal is unconstitutional and that the NAP is to make a 100 % tax on IRS. Mother of heaven! If this isn't unconstitutional, I don't know what is unconstitutional! Do you know any country in the world that pays 100 percent anything? Oh, my God! That is what is called—I will explain—confessive! It is called a confidation in fiscal law, and it is clearly unconstitutional, as the Constitutional Court has said several times. So come here to say that our proposal is unconstitutional when the proposal it presents is clearly unconstitutional, it can only be a joke. But I liked it when I said that consistency is the water brand of the NAP and that, therefore, it is available to explain to me what coherence is. He spoke of the golden visas. I heard there: 'the visasgold that the right has led' but at least they are not seengreen, Mr! They are not proposed by the NAP, in the wake of what it defends, because it was its party that defended the establishment of a green visa policy. By now, I should also explain—there is no time, but I can give it to you—how it comes to attack the vissgolds and let it be seen green. I mean, it's a little bit... I've always waited for green to stay there for The Greens, but apparently the PAN preferred to copy that anyway. On consistency, Mr President, we do not say that we want to combat sexual crimes and then we make a sort of law of reconciliation group therapy between rapists and rapists and “all to the sauce and faith in God”. That's for the PAN. So I repeat to you the words: when you want coherence, talk to the Arrival, that the Arrival will certainly have the ability, the ability and the courage to explain to you what coherence is. Mr Peixoto, in fact, is true and we wonder how the Socialist Party, at the heart of this debate, has always voted against these proposals. But I also ask you, Mr President, whether it would be reasonable for a Prime Minister such as José Socrates to allow his bench to vote in favour of illicit enrichment. It wouldn't be expectable! So we have to give his owner. The truth is that José Socrates was consistent, from minute to minute, saying that illicit enrichment is a shame. And I realize it's a shame for him. We have all seen what has happened — the honourable Member has said — and well — in that (I will try to be respectful) instructive judgment, in which illicit enrichment was 'washed' as the hour advanced and with the Portuguese to see, live on television, watching astonished at this situation. But I must also tell you, Mr President, that the previous PSD project says that combating illicit enrichment is an important way of combating corruption. And we must remind ourselves of something that the PSD has also recalled today, which is what the PS did when the Court of Auditors alerted to the risks of corruption, in particular the risks of corruption in public procurement: it removed the President of the Court of Auditors and made a prior visa waiver for public procurement. This is what they have done in the area of corruption and therefore I am not surprised that the PS will actually want to vote against this proposal on illicit enrichment. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, it is true that this proposal is a risk. But you know that Sá Carneiro said that risk-free politics is a mess and when we are sure that we are certain and that the Portuguese, out there, know that this is what they want and not legislative craftsmen want to criminalize related obligations, declarations or other types of accessories, we must insist on what we believe, even if it is unconstitutional. Even if the Court comes to declare it unconstitutional, we have remained firm, because this House is not elected by the Constitutional Court, it is elected by all Portuguese, out there, and if it asked the Portuguese what they want, if they want to criminalize illicit enrichment or the ancillary obligations, I am sure that 95% would say that they want to criminalize illicit enrichment—it would certainly not be Victor Hugo, nor would they be some of our best specialists, it would be the Portuguese people, sovereign in the decision to take on justice. Mr Telmo Correia, I will just say the following: it is not true that this proposal is equivalent, because it transforms two very important things: one, the reason, which must always be presented for unjustified enrichment; the other, the reference to tax legislation, in particular for the manifestations of fortune, Article 89. o -A of the General Tax Law. This referral may not only distort the identification of the legal good as it may also allow the presumption of innocence not to be so seriously affected and we can effectively criminalize illicit enrichment. This is a possible proposal. There are others that we will discuss, but I would like to remind you. Ladies and gentlemen, if there was a proposal that was first announced that it would come to Parliament on the 23rd day — it was known to all, it was made public — it was that the arrival would bring the wrongful enrichment to this House on this day. Therefore, do not say that the Arrival used a trick to come here to bring illicit enrichment and play with it, because it was already long announced and there is no one in this Chamber who did not know that the Arrival would discuss illicit enrichment this day. Who made a trick was the government and the Socialist Party, and they all fell into it, because again, what we are going to do is approve, or not, a strategy against corruption that of illicit enrichment speaks zero! If we approve the strategy of the Socialist Party, it is the worst blow we have in the fight against corruption in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u56	For a new intervention, you have the floor of Mr Cláudia Santos of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has no legislative initiative. It has a legislative initiative on concealing wealth in the molds that are possible in relation to the Constitution that, fortunately, we have. However, there was one aspect which seemed relevant to me in the speech of the honourable Member, when he said, addressing the Member of the NAP : "Whenever you want consistency, speak with the coming one". Interestingly, he did not say « Whenever you want consistency, speak to Mr André Ventura », which opens us an interesting discussion space, because Mr André Ventura does not like to quote Victor Hugo, but perhaps we can quote Mr. Professor André Ventura, with whom I had the hope to debate criminal politics today, because this is an agenda on criminal policy. Mr. André Ventura has a doctoral dissertation whose title is precisely: The biggest challenges for criminal procedural legislation. As you do not like Victor Hugo, I will then quote Dr. André Ventura: "Western countries have produced an incredible amount of new legislation on the fight against tax fraud, money laundering and corruption. A paradigmatic case is Portugal. A country in southern Europe, with deep-rooted corruption practices, which in the last six years has made a real paradigmatic revolution in banking supervision and the fight against tax evasion» — page 25. Then on page 29 it says: « Even countries such as Portugal or Ireland know increasingly harsh and inflexible legislative proposals relating to fundamental rights ». Further on page 119, it says : « The reason for this phenomenon of hypercriminalization against human rights lies in an acritical social context of legitimacy which, in fact, explains the approval by national parliaments, in criminal law and in criminal proceedings, of highly restrictive measures of fundamental rights, without any justification». He said, and I repeat: « highly restrictive measures of fundamental rights without any justification» — page 119. On page 121, it says : « These changes reveal a gradual weakening of the right to freedom in both Portugal and Spain ». It says on page 146 that « The fundamental values and principles of criminal proceedings models are in danger ». Then—I will conclude, not to be too dull— says, on page 209: 'It seems clear that there is a progressive and extensive annihilation of fundamental rights in basic aspects of the lives of citizens'. And it concludes: « Legislative changes in countries such as Portugal, Spain, Ireland, the United States undermines the fundamental structure of the democratic rule of law and its inherited nature of the liberal policy of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries » — we meet here with Victor Hugo. And he continues: « On the one hand, humanist criminal law, as Figueiredo Dias has called, has definitely been dominated» — at this time, Mr Lia Figueiredo Dias and I suppose I also read Victor Hugo — and goes on to defend the need to respect the presumption of innocence, on page 234. So talking about coherence in this debate becomes problematic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Clearly, you can tell me that consistency is in academic life and that we are not in university, we are in Parliament. But one thing I can also answer is that since 2003 I have written exactly the same about corruption and criminal proceedings and what I have been defending today is totally consistent with what I have been writing since then. Just to conclude, I would say to you that this line of argument that facts or science are not interested in politics is an argument that we know, for example, in Portuguese with sugar, said by the president of a brother country, when he says, for example, "Vaccine if you want, you run the risk of turning jacaré". Anyway, a politician can say that when he's not a biochemistry doctor. Now, a politician who is a Doctor in criminal policy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u58	He went out in the Amparo flour!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u59	... to defend a legislative initiative which is clearly unthinkable from the point of view of the presumption of innocence, of the principle of offensiveness, of the principle of legality, is an inconsistencies which, in the case of the honourable Member, is more difficult to justify. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u60	Mr André Ventura has spoken for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Thank you for the palms for the fantastic quote. Madam Member, I do not think you have heard what I said, but I will explain again: this proposal in nothing or very little hurts what we understand must be the presumption of innocence. And, as the honourable Member has mentioned, well, if there is anything we can have is consistency, because we wanted to end this rule laid down in the Constitution, not the presumption of innocence, but the way it is seen and interpreted. It is that there is no interpretation of the presumption of innocence, according to the Member of Parliament, academics, you know, there are several — as I said and quoted — of some much better than we do. The honourable Member will recognise that in the Constitutional Court's own judgments there were those who understood that proposal, or another similar one, did not violate the presumption of innocence and would recognize that in many countries of Europe and the world there are proposals similar to it with a principle of presumption of innocence as active and as firm as ours. If you like Comparative Law, go there to study Comparative Law to see how there are countries in the world where the principle of presumption of innocence is taken much more seriously than in Portugal, particularly in terms of preventive arrest and coercion measures, and indeed have this type of model and proposal. Do not take refuge in coherence, Mrs Deputies, to justify what the PS does not want to do: criminalize illicit enrichment. If you do not want to quote Victor Hugo, nor André Ventura, quote António Guterres: "When there is injustice and we let it pass, it is we who fail to let it happen". I hope the Socialist Party, which likes so much citations, hears Antonio Guterres on this matter of illicit enrichment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u62	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Lacão, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are those who think that being a democrat is to comply with the procedural rules of democracy. It is certainly a component, but I believe that being a democrat is more than that and implies a strong ethical adherence to values and principles and I believe that this strong ethical adherence to values and principles goes, by a democrat, to always have the concern to defend rigor and truth and to refuse the demagogic instrumentalization of public opinion. Now, what happens here today is that we have seen too easily the search for the gross instrumentation of public opinion, starting from the very idea that we have to criminalize a legal type of illicit enrichment because this does not exist in our legal-criminal order. Question: What, for example, is the crime of undue advantage? What is the crime of corruption, certainly lacking improvement about the type? What is the crime of the ciculatory? What is the crime of illegitimate business participation, to give some examples? They are, of course, manifestations of forms of illicit enrichment present in our legal and constitutional order. So perhaps it is something else that is at stake and this other thing, present in the draft law of the Arrival, as Mrs Cláudia Santos so eloquently demonstrated, is again the attempt to circumvent the criminal principle of presumption of innocence and the prohibition of the reversal of the burden of proof. This is exactly what is at stake and, being this is at stake, the worst thing you can do is pretend to take others to knock their heads on the wall in relation to constitutional impossibility. That is what Mr. André Ventura came to invite it to be done, that is to say, that the others would knock their heads on the wall in relation to something that they know is not possible. It is not possible because our Constitution does not allow it, it is not possible because the Constitutional Court has already unanimously declared it, but it is not possible also because of the principles and values. It is that since the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, since the European Convention on Human Rights, since the European Charter of Fundamental Rights which we all know that these principles are not only Portuguese, they are acquired principles of democratic civilization and who is democratic must respect the principles on behalf of which democracy and the rule of law are built. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why if any aberration here exists is the attempt to raise an impossibility. However, it is not surprising that, with regard to this impossibility, we have, in particular Mr Peixoto, seen the alleged consistency of his party in the past in previous legislatures when he presented here precisely solutions which were, as the Constitutional Court has shown, grossly unconstitutional. Was the Socialist Party still at that time, particularly in relation to the legislative initiatives of 2012 and 2015? No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen. The PS presented its own initiatives to deepen the principle of transparency, to deepen the scope of the reporting duties of policy makers, to deepen the sanctions regime, in the event of violations of those reporting duties. What did most of them do then, most of the PSD and CDS? He voted against these initiatives. And what did that same majority do? He insisted in 2012 and insisted in 2015 on such grossly unconstitutional solutions. Did you then have an obligation to know that they were roundly unconstitutional and, therefore, since then, what the PSD and CDS have been responsible for? when voting against the projects presented by the PS, on those occasions, they were responsible for having delayed the better clarification of the principle of transparency and of the duties committed to those responsible for political positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u65	When, then, has this matter been clarified? It was clarified when it was possible to change the parliamentary majority, i.e. in the XIII legislature. When, finally, PSD and CDS have stopped having a majority of control in Parliament, then it was possible, with Law No 52 / 2019, to clearly extend the scope of transparency due to political leaders, to extend it, within the scope of the reporting duties, to extend it in the sense of criminalization of false declarations and the unlawful concealment of enrichment, to extend it, in the correct sense, which is what I hope on Friday we will again discuss and deepen, in the sense of improvement. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, returning to the beginning of my words, if we want to be democrats, we know not to mislead public opinion, we know to speak truth, but we also know, each one, to assume his responsibilities. The good solutions for 2019 were due to the change in the composition of the parliamentary majority. They were not obtained before because the old majority did not allow it, and today too everyone is already trained — by the way, with the only exception of Mr Ventura — that insisting on the mistake is not only a nonsense as it is to question the credibility of people in institutions. For our part, as in 2012, as in 2015, as in 2019, we will constructively continue to work together to ensure that institutions are credible and that citizens have reason to rely on those who choose to take over the causes of interest and public good. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u66	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further inscriptions, I will give the floor to Mr Ventura to close this debate. Mr. André Ventura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate here today has been particularly revealing, revealing how much of the representatives elected by the Portuguese people have no will or want to combat illicit enrichment. A good part of the Portuguese people's election, cheating on their confidence, because here they have said the opposite of what they said in the last elections, have in fact no interest in combating unjustified enrichment, which is the same thing to say — to hear out there — those who arrive with nothing and leave with everything, without having to prove what they do and why they do, saying that this would call into question the presumption of innocence. As if it were normal, in the exercise of public functions, to arrive with a standardized salary and to leave with the hands full of money for golden jobs out there, as if it were what a Democrat should do and that was to defend democracy. That is what we have heard here today in this Parliament: rhetoric on the left and right, preventing what the Portuguese want to do, which is criminalizing illicit enrichment. They quoted Victor Hugo's letter. Surely Victor Hugo did not know this country as well as the millions of Portuguese people who, every day, have to live beside him, have to look at corruption at the door of his municipal chamber, at the door of his parish board, have to see a former Prime Minister being judged and completely whitened, have to see colleagues and camera presidents being arrested, day after day, and look at Victor Hugo's letter as if it were the solution of his problems. Certainly the Portuguese would expect those elected much more than reading Victor Hugo's letters, they would wait for action, they would wait for firmness, and they would not be afraid or afraid of the results when we have the right reason and we have the history on our side. in the last apparent trial of instruction, a judge described the scandalous case as fantasy, delirium and the word we heard the most was "prescribed" — a shame in the open sky of Portugal, which looked incredulous. While others, here, made quotes and said that to justice what is justice, the country saw how it is possible to leave this place of Prime Minister and to have a golden life, with the joy and scandal of the money of the Portuguese who so much costs them every day to win. It was Rui Barbosa who said that justice can be irritated because it is precarious, but the truth is never impatient because it is eternal. I know that we are right and one day, sooner than ever and sooner than they expect, this Parliament will adopt an illegal enrichment standard. If it is not in this legislature it will be in the near future, because the commitment to the Portuguese, in the forthcoming elections, will have to be clear and speak truth about who wants to create declarative articles and who actually want to criminalize illicit enrichment. So there is one thing that the right must know: there will be no solution to the right without the criminalization of illicit enrichment being a reality, on which to depend on the Reach and on what its strength will depend. Mr. Jorge Lacão said: « let us be democrats». That is what the Portuguese hope to hear this afternoon, "we are democrats", as they look at the camera president who is being judged for corruption, while they look at the board president who diverted money into personal cars and who has gone on a trip with taxpayers' money — my friends, let us be democrats! After all, they have to be careful with those who only think democracy is a process and who are here to destroy it, because it is the villains, and who, when they can, will make this Parliament a unitary and security chamber. But it is not so, Mr President: that between being a democrat and looking at people as stupid, it is going to be a big difference, between saying that we are democrats and enjoying with the Portuguese, it is going to be a huge difference. The Portuguese see themselves with the greatest tax burden ever, see themselves paying taxes that never end again and see that politicians, or not politicians, can put the money behind their backs, go out the back door and disappear without being seen, some in Cape Verde, others in the Philippines, others, here in Ericeira or in Cascais,... [[PS protests.]] ... to enjoy with those who pay the wages of the Portuguese and with whom, indeed, makes Portugal a country that can still be decent. But the Socialist Party also says that insisting on the mistake is nonsense. I don't know if insisting on error is nonsense or not. There are many mistakes in history that were first defended by one and then defended by one hundred, by one thousand, by one million, by several million. Yesterday we may have been few, today we are many and one day I believe that we can be millions defending what is actually the right thing. What we cannot say, because we do not have that right, is that any solution that wants to criminalize the illicit enrichment, not because of the declarative duties, but because of the unjustified increase in heritage, has an impact on the presumption of innocence or on human rights. What we cannot tell the Portuguese is that the reason why ex-prime ministers, as I said, will be impunity for much of their crimes is because human rights, presumption of innocence and "we are democrats" so demand. Good luck, explaining that to the Portuguese! And good luck explaining that those who had the duty first to manage and look after the public were the first to enrich at their expense and disappear, shielded by a law that could have already been changed and it was not because the left and the extreme left did not want it. The truth is, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, is that the Socialist Party has been in the government for seven years, has, or has, a stable majority for five years and has always been ready to hand it over to the CFP in all years to follow, in fear of early elections. With all this extraordinary scenario, how can one not adopt a standard on unjustified or illegal enrichment? With a clear parliamentary majority, which the Portuguese granted in 2015 and 2019, they only do not approve it if they do not want to. But the rule and justification will always be the same: "Oh, we can't, because of this; we can't, because of that; it's not the time, it will be more forward. However, the legislature ends, they will no longer be in the majority, and the blame will be on the right that it did not want to do its work. This has been the role of PS and the left in recent years and this is why we must rise, because the majority of this House go and come, to the taste of the elections, the majority of this House go and come, to the taste of the Portuguese will, but the illicit enrichment and its victims will continue to persist in the memory of all and in the destruction of Portugal. Portugal has fallen systematically in the rates of transparency and against corruption. Portugal has been from the countries of the world where a prime minister is being judged, and in an unbelievable way, before public opinion. Portugal has systematically fallen in the OECD's assessment ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), in the fight against corruption, in the fight against tax fraud and money laundering and in the fight against influence trafficking. We have an old minister imprisoned in the Evora chain for trafficking in influence, an old minister arrested for receiving a vital grant paid by all Portuguese. And to that we keep looking and saying: “We can’t do anything! or, as Mr Jorge Lacão would say: "Let us be democrats! Do not keep on seeking. ” This is the scenario of a destroyed country, a disappointed country, an attractive country, for whom the words "we are democrats" are of little value, or the words "we have to defend the democracy of our enemies" are worth the role that flies to the taste of the wind, because people want solutions and feel that they have a functioning justice. More than 80 % of Portuguese say that justice does not work or works badly in Portugal. We have been elected by much less than 80% of the Portuguese. Those who voted for us to sit here and look ahead inside were much less than those who say that justice in Portugal does not work. And if they were to watch, remote from today's debate, they would realize that beautiful phrases, phrases with glory or without glory, calls for democracy, freedom and dignity, calls for values, are very beautiful, but they don't solve the problem right there, on their land, don't solve what they had to live during the last 10, 20, 30 and 40 years, don't solve the health of our democracy. So, it's not worth anything in April we come with nails to the chest,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u68	You're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u69	... let us praise the great institutions that we have or quote Victor Hugo, to say that we love our democracy and our institutions, when, in fact, we know that this is not the feeling of the Portuguese and the disappointment prevails and progresses every day that passes. Each vote against unjustified enrichment is a major breakdown in our democracy, each vote against this proposal on unjustified enrichment will have to be justified by the Portuguese. What is the reason why, with the opportunity in our hands, we have decided, once again, for the eighth time, not to criminalize unjustified enrichment. Now it won't be time for conversation or phrases. We have a proposal that has risks, which can be improved, but above all that touches on the essential point: those who enrich on behalf of the Portuguese must be punished in an exemplary manner. Let us be democrats and democracy requires that we be defended by those who insist on destroying it. And you have no doubt, sir. Members, who, while screaming for fascist, racist and extremist, who truly destroy democracy, are the ones who take the money from the Portuguese, put it in the bag, disappear and destroy confidence in the system. These are the ones that destroy democracy and these are the ones that we want to sit in the bank of the defendants of history...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u70	Mr. Deputy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u71	I will finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u72	Mr President, allow me to say the following: you have two minutes to make the closing statement. Therefore, from this moment on, I give you the floor to that effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Those who destroy democracy are not those whom the Socialist Party, the PCP or the Left Block call extremists, racists or fascists. Those who destroy democracy are those who, using and abusing State institutions, using and abusing public power, undermine the confidence of Portuguese people by taking advantage of their assets without having to give any justification. Plastic bags, banal crafts, fireworks: this would be how people outside today would look at this Parliament who found a layer of beautiful arguments to vote again against the fight against unjustified or illegal enrichment. Plastic bag that never goes down, is always on the surface protecting from those who want to make real changes in Portuguese society. But this always has its positive meaning and the positive meaning is that the Portuguese will know who, effectively, wants to make changes and who uses the argument to keep everything exactly in it. A little while ago I quoted Antonio Guterres and so now I'm going to quote someone perhaps more expensive to the left of this Plenary. Ghandi said: "If you act against justice and I let you act, then injustice is mine," that is, when we act against justice, we are all committing the same injustice. When I let someone commit an injustice knowing that it is, then, that injustice is mine too. Ghandi, if you look at this Parliament today and all the parties to say that "it is a crime, it is serious and must be punished", but when voting everyone will rise against this project, I would say that the same injustice is your injustice. [[Protests by the Member of Parliament not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and laughs by the Member of BE José Manuel Pureza.]] And for those who say that we will never take him to good port because it is against the Constitution, I will always say that the true Constitution is the Portuguese people. I am sure of one thing: if the struggle is between the Portuguese people and the Constitution, it will not be the Constitution to win, it will be the Portuguese people to win, because this is what the Portuguese people want and this is what the Portuguese people deserve.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u74	Mr President, please conclude, because you have already finished your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u75	I will finish, Mr. President. If we knew to be democrats...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u76	Thank you, Mr. Commissioner, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u77	I shall conclude, Mr. President. If we knew how to be democrats today we would honor the will of the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u78	I received four salaries and now comes to teach moral lessons!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u79	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the voting period. We have 200 Members registered, so we have more quorum than enough. We will generally vote for Bill No. 807 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ) — Amends the Penal Code and creates Article 335. o -A, defining the crime of illicit or unjustified enrichment, clarifying its objective and subjective assumptions of application, as well as the applicable criminal framework, still distinguishing according to whether or not the agent holds political office. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, the vote in favour of CH and abstentions from the NAP and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall now vote for an application by the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, who has been discharged from the Commission for 30 days without a vote of Bill No 881 / XIV / 2. a ( Unregistered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Creates the crime of concealment of wealth in order to prevent corruption and increase public integrity. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Mrs. Sofia Araújo has an announcement to make to the House. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform the House that you have entered the Office of the President of the Assembly of the Republic the Proposal for Law No 102 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which will be down to 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-23.u81	Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will be tomorrow at 3 p.m. and will include the debate required by the PS on PRR : an instrument for the economic and social recovery of the country. For today we have completed our work. I wish you all very good afternoon. Anyone who doesn't have what to do in here can join the Portuguese outside. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 1 minute.]]
