ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. The session is open. [[It was 14 hours and 33 minutes.]] The first item on today's agenda consists of an urgent debate required by the PSD under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, on the subject 'Correction of an unfair access to European funds'. However, before we begin this urgent debate, I would ask Mrs Sofia Araújo to announce the file. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u2	Mr. President, I respect the House. They have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. I refer, first, to the Bills Nos. 856 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 857 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 858 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 859 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission. They also entered, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects No. 1302 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 12. the Commission, 1303 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1304 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1306 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1307 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1308 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 1309 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us, then, initiate the emergency debate already announced. To that end, Mr Fernando Negrão of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u4	Mr President, Minister for Territorial Cohesion, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Until 2013, the nine municipalities south of the Tejo that constitute the Setúbal Peninsula remained united in a territorial statistical unit, with access to Community funds according to its level of income, which has been and is low. From 2013 onwards, the same nine municipalities and the same peninsula were no longer self-sustained, being integrated into the territorial unit of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon (AML), also constituted by nine municipalities, but these north of the river Tejo, whose yield level was and is high. In short, at one time, the nine municipalities that form part of the so-called Setúbal Peninsula, which hold and hold a low level of income, began to integrate the platoon of the richest with an income of approximately 90 % of the European average. This statistical prodigy has had and has consequences. And they're not good for the Setúbal Peninsula. We see: it has prevented the Setúbal Peninsula from accessing the Community Support Framework 2013 - 2020 ; companies, private institutions of social solidarity ( IPSS ) and authorities of the same peninsula have been excluded from the Community co-financing mechanisms; companies in this region, where some of the most dynamic and exporters are included, have also been prevented from co-financing their modernisation. And so continues the Peninsula of Setúbal, even after the return to the governance of the left who, with the non-change of this unjust situation, expressed their agreement with it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u6	While making the PS move a kind of advanced guard towards the start of the final hour approach to the solution, the government continues to resist, thinking that as it is well, against the will of a population aware of the need to change, because it wants more and better economy, more and better employment and more and better social support. Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent to change the situation in accordance with the terms and the reasons why they have been explained. It is urgent to restore justice in access to Community funds. While since 2013 companies in the Setúbal Peninsula have lost their capacity to invest in their production and modernization, companies in regions such as the Metropolitan Area of Porto, Vouga, Minho, Oeste or Alentejo Litoral continue to benefit from funds with income levels below 75 % of the Community average, because they have never left their levels II and III. The Association of Industry of the Setúbal Peninsula states that the region is losing about EUR 2000 million for each Community framework which is annexed to the « rich » large Lisbon, as is the case with the social support provided to the IPSS. Thus, there is a divergence in economic growth and a deterioration in the social crisis, with negative effects on this peninsula with 800 000 inhabitants, where political parties, authorities, churches, companies and trade unions are united in order to find a solution for the Setúbal Peninsula to be able to benefit again from co-financed investment by Community funds as its yield and not from the yield of the municipalities considered richest north of the river Tejo. But there's more. In the latest available data of 2016, it is verified that the Setúbal Peninsula is among the seven NUTS(Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistical Purposes) III with gross added value per capita of the lower companies. And throughout the national territory, with the exception of the Azores, all the other NUTS III, including the weakest, were supported under more advantageous conditions than the Setúbal Peninsula, the QREN ( National Strategic Reference Framework) and Portugal 2020. In 2016, GDP ( gross domestic product ) per capita of the Setúbal Peninsula was €12 777, i.e. more than 26 % in 2000. In the North region, growth was more than 51 %, in the Centre region plus 47 %, in the Alentejo more than 46 % and in the Algarve more than 47 %. Invariably, almost double, in the same 16 years. The PSD called for the scheduling of this urgent debate not for reasons of a party nature, but for being deeply concerned about the economic and social consequences that this withdrawal of the Community funds has already caused and can continue to provoke. It cannot be until yesterday, it will soon have to be the decision on the creation of a NUTS II and III for the Setúbal Peninsula, because only then can this region receive Community funds again according to its true level of income. [[Protests from PS André Pinotes Batista.]] If this does not happen, for example, the decarbonisation and digitisation of industry will be involved because it is impossible to access the funds of the Green Pact for this purpose. I finish by recalling the greeting of Mr. Manuel Martins, Bishop of Setúbal who said, and I quote: "Nothing should hinder us in the search for better solutions to a happier, fairer and less unequal path to the peninsula and to the sadins. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u7	Mr President, the Bureau has two requests for clarification from the Members. Deputies João Cotrim de Figueiredo and Filipe Pacheco. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u8	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u9	He then has the floor to make the first request for clarifications, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u10	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, thank you for the subject you are bringing us today. For us too, advocates of decentralization, the issue is fundamental. We are in fact defending the transfer of State powers to people, and they can not only be implementing powers, but also decision making powers, with the corresponding reduction of the costs of the central State, because transfer of powers cannot involve duplication of costs or bureaucracy. We believe that local problems are always better answered by those who have direct knowledge of matters and that this allows better solutions and greater accountability. The case of the Setúbal Peninsula is even more serious, because it is a region that was already in 2016 the country's fourth poorest region, and it is known that it has not had the proper support of European funds for being integrated into the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, the richest region of the country. The Minister of Cohesion, present here, said in November that it was urgent for the Setúbal Peninsula to become a NUTS III. He now says that he would correspond to a « fragmentation of the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, with strategic consequences », but does not say what consequences it refers to, because the consequence can only be to continue to help Lisbon, rich region, at the expense of the Setúbal Peninsula, poor region. The Setúbal Peninsula brings together good geographical, socio-economic and historical reasons to be NUTS II and NUTS III regions. Do nothing with the argument that this amendment would only take effect after 2027 is to ensure that we will continue to do nothing until there.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u11	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u12	I will finish, Mr. President. So, honourable Member, follow me in this question: will we continue to harm the Setúbal Peninsula and condemn it to the desert condition, as did Mário Lino in 2007? Our answer is this: never! [[PSD Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u13	To make a request for clarification, Mr Filipe Pacheco of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Fernando Negrão, I would like to begin by greeting the Democratic Social Party for the convening of this debate, recalling that the Setúbal Peninsula and the Country know well what the Socialist Party Government has done over the past six years to reverse many of the harmful measures of previous PSD/CDS governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u15	Here comes the same conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u16	But today's news is that the PSD itself relies on the PS government to reverse one of the injustices created at the time they were in power. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Deputy, was it or was it not the PSD that in 2013 eliminated NUTS III from the Setúbal Peninsula?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u17	It's always the same conversation! How did they vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u18	Was it or was it not the PSD that that same year decided that the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon was going to be both NUTS III and NUTS II, making the Setúbal Peninsula considered a developed region and without access to the Community funds it should be entitled to? Was it or was it not the PSD that removed NUTS III and now presented a draft resolution requesting the creation of the same NUTS III? Fernando Negrão, former Minister of Justice of Passos Coelho, is the same Fernando Negrão who now comes to bring the autarchics to the noise and ask for the reversal of a measure he supported when he was on that bench. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the first conclusion we draw from this debate is that the PSD has failed the time and the way to present itself to this debate. Time failed, because time was eight years ago, when it still made sense and before the decision was made. And it failed the way, because they should have started with a confession of this bench: « Yes, the PSD failed in 2013, yes, we damaged the entire Setubal Peninsula and, yes, we now want them to help us reverse the mistake we made. Do not keep on seeking. ” That's what they should have said. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u19	In reply, Mr Fernando Negrão of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u20	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, I would like to add only one thing to what he said: obviously this is to continue to treat the Setúbal Peninsula badly. The honourable Member recalled the words of Mário Lino and I would add to the words he mentioned, that he had said that "the south bank is a desert. » And that is how the PS wants the Setúbal Peninsula to continue, whether it remains a desert. [[PS protests.]] On the issue raised by Mr Filipe Pacheco, let me tell you that I have been here very clearly that it has been since 2013. And we well know that who ruled in 2013 was the PSD/CDS government. [[PS protests.]] But I was clear! I'm clearer than you! That does not mean that we have agreement, even by changing circumstances, with respect to what happens. [[PS protests.]] And in this particular respect, you have serious responsibilities, because everything was prepared for a friendly economic government, for a government to develop the economy. You won the elections, tied to the PCP and the Left Block and did not develop the economy. [[PSD applause.]] They stopped the economy and left the Portuguese unemployed, when today we could have a prosperous and jobless economy. That is your sin and continues to be stubborn in order to turn the south bank into a desert. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u21	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Territorial Cohesion: The Setúbal Peninsula has been playing a key role in the country's economic and social development for decades. The vast potential of this region, the natural conditions, the investment in infrastructure and quality of life, especially from the democratic local power, the installed capacity and the qualification of its populations, these and other factors show how much this region has given and can give to the country. But in addition to disastrous options of successive governments, of injustice and the wrong strategic vision, of investments promised and so many times postponed, there is an aggravated criminalization framework which continues to prejudice this region, in this case, in the application of the European Structural Funds. And this unfair and penalizing framework, in this particular area, is the result of decisions taken in 2012 by the Government of PSD / CDS, which, by working with Eurostat on the elimination of NUTS III Setúbal Peninsula, has objectively harmed the region, from then on, with the statistical blackout which has made access to resources more serious. The PCP alerted to this problem, questioned, in the parliamentary committee, the then Minister Miguel Poiares Maduro about this statistical prodigy that was being decreed. We were in 2013. The minister replied that the problem would be overcome. I wasn't. The problem stays and it's been eight years. The PSD initiative to schedule this debate is particularly relevant, meaningful and revealing, because it translates an unforgettable act of PSD contribution and self-criticism, which we want to welcome from here. But what is also happening, and that is no less significant, is that, after six years of minority governments of the Socialist Party, the problem remains, without any solution taken by government officials. In fact, every time the CFP raised the issue, several members of successive governments and ministries, when confronted, have always devalued the matter over time. in this discussion, the leaders of the Government and the Socialist Party have come to say everything and the contrary: they say that the reconstruction of the NUTS III Setúbal Peninsula is a very complex and prolonged process, which will be done there by 2027, but then they recognize that in fact there can be an exceptional process and much faster. They say they do not know of any request to reconstitute the NUTS III Peninsula of Setúbal, but then recognize that over time there have been contacts with the association of municipalities and with several other entities in the region. They say there must be two NUTS II in AML and then Mr. Secretary of State says that it is necessary for the Setúbal Peninsula to pass to the Alentejo. Mrs. Governors, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you need to understand the solution you want to propose to the country. The solution we have come to propose is very concrete, objective and constructive. It is presented in this House and, essentially, responds to the concerns of what has been claimed by local and regional development agents in the Setúbal Peninsula, by the authorities, by the association of municipalities, by all the various entities addressed to the Government and this Assembly in this regard. The PCP proposal is reflected in the Resolution Project No. 1165 / XIV / 2. a — Reconstitution of the NUTS III Grande Lisboa and the Setúbal Peninsula within the framework of NUTS II AML, in which we propose that the Government promote, as a matter of urgency, the statistical differentiation of the Setúbal Peninsula, translated through the replacement of NUTS III in this territory, as well as the correspondent of Great Lisbon, the existing organizational and territorial coherence by 2013. But this project also proposes that a wider review of statistical instruments for regional information be initiated, taking into account the current benchmark in Eurostat, in particular, which includes the creation of a NUTS II design that potentiates the structural funds applicable in the national territory, and that the State and Government study and process support with the structures of the European Union already in the multiannual financial framework in order to ensure that funding to the whole of AML is not reduced, providing additional compensatory flows to the Setubal Peninsula, notably in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) and in other integrated operations. Mrs. Members, this is the proposal of the CFP. It is requested to schedule the positions and political options in the defence and promotion of an effective proposal and an effective response to the problems in the Setubal Peninsula. The CFP announces here the schedule of the debate and the vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u23	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u24	There we will be for the necessary debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u25	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u26	I will finish, Mr. President. Above all, we call for action to be taken once and for all, without forgetting that, in addition to these discussions, on the Structural Funds for Public Investment, there is also a future horizon that we cannot abdicate what regionalisation is. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u27	I have the floor, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens see this debate, scheduled by the PSD, as a debate on injustices in access to European funds and not only on correction of injustice in access to these funds, regardless of the relevance and even the opportunity of the injustice targeted by the PSD. Moreover, only now, at the time of the debate, did we know that the PSD was unfair, after all, meant. It's not a suspense movie, but finally, it reminds you of one. If the PSD had, at least, said it was an injustice created by the PSD, it would be easier to figure out what the matter was, but that was not said.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u30	In any case, I would like to bring to debate two issues relating to access to the European funds which the Greens have been concerned and which we believe is important for the government to take a decision on them today. The first is about the Setúbal Peninsula and, therefore, the subject that the PSD, by the way, aimed at this debate, the second is about micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and their difficulties in accessing European funds. I begin with the Setúbal Peninsula to remember that it is for the Government to ensure the definition of policy guidelines for the management and governance of European funds for the various thematic axes, but also for the various regions of the country. In other words, it is for the Government to find the appropriate responses to the regions which, for any reason, have not yet achieved the cohesion objectives, even if this may require the change of national rules. in this context, as it is public, the Association of Municipalities of the Region of Setúbal, as well as its associated municipalities and several other entities representative of the various economic sectors of the Peninsula of Setúbal, have over time come to denounce that the Peninsula of Setúbal faces very insufficient investment levels, to respond to its economic and social development needs, both at the level of national investment, and also at the level of European funds. It is a situation that has accentuated the continuing socio-economic divergence of the Setúbal Peninsula in relation to the metropolitan assembly and other regions of the country. In fact, the Setúbal Peninsula continues to record socio-economic parameters characteristic of a convergence region. However, for political and administrative reasons, it is integrated into NUTS II, classified as « Regional competitiveness and employment », which is the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, which has constituted and continues to be a negative element in achieving the desired territorial and socio-economic cohesion. Mr Minister, what answers does the Government take on the legislative level to solve this serious problem that continues to harm the Setúbal Peninsula? With regard to access to funds by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the Minister, as we know, these companies face enormous difficulties when they wish to access the funds. These difficulties relate, above all, but not only to the excessive bureaucratic nature of the application processes. In fact, in most cases micro and small enterprises are obliged to hire other companies to formalise their applications for access to the funds, which means that some of these funds do not reach the destination for which they were created, because the companies they apply have to bear the costs with the services of the companies preparing the application process. It would therefore be interesting to see whether the Government has taken, or has taken, measures to simplify the application procedures in order to exempt the intervention of third parties with regard to access to Community funds. So, Mrs Minister, what steps have been taken to disburse applications so that micro and small businesses can formalize their applications without having to use external mechanisms, or third parties, in order to submit their candidatures? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u31	Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD brings us a debate on the access of the Setúbal Peninsula to Community funds, which is the reverse of another problem, which is the statistical invisibility of the Setúbal Peninsula, which stems from a socio-economic artificiality that hides asymmetries within the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, asymmetries that have deepened, since the Setúbal Peninsula is no longer an autonomous NUTS and has been integrated into the NUTS II and III of the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. On this, I think it's important to remember two things. The first is the origin, as has already been mentioned. The review of the territorial map in 2013 was done without hearing autarchs, without hearing the population. this review led to the decision that the Setúbal Peninsula no longer be an autonomous NUTS. The Setúbal region is one of the injuries of Miguel Relvas, as many other regions have been.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u33	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u34	The fact that the PSD takes this mistake here today is important because it helps to solve it. However, this error is estimated to have cost EUR 2000 million per Community framework to the region and this cannot be spread. Over the last few years, this error has affected municipalities, universities and vocational schools, businesses and industry in access to Community funds. It has undermined access to Community funds for research, technology science, infrastructure, social projects, for the development of the region. That's the first thing that's important to remember. The second important thing to remember is that this damage to access to Community funds does not justify everything. The Setúbal Peninsula is not, it is estimated, the fourth poorest region in Portugal, and, by contrast with the European average, only because of this damage to access to Community funds. The Setúbal Peninsula had difficulty recovering from the economic crisis, but that is also due to labour laws. It is necessary to look at collective recruitment, precariousness, structural deficits in public health policies, education, transport, housing, privatization and the dismantling of some strategic companies, for the lack of investments in rail, for example, to understand the reason for the lack of development of the Setúbal Peninsula. Many of these problems will not be solved only by Community funds and by the amendment we are seeking today. The recovery and investment at Garcia de Orta Hospital or the Southern Tejo Metro are, for example, not even provided for in the « bazouca» — I remember that we are discussing access to the new Community framework and recovery and resilience funds. It is therefore important to remember that the change in the NUTS we are asking for here may or may not correspond to a development vision for the Setúbal Peninsula that is based on social rights, economic rights, sustainable development and environmental protection. But one thing is true: this reality exists. The Setúbal Peninsula exists as a reality, as an identity, as a socio-economic reality. Therefore, regardless of the development vision for it, it is fair to consider—and that seems to be unanimous here—that it should be an autonomous statistical unit, and that therefore the claim of the people of Setúbal, who have also come to this Parliament, so many times, with regard to this empowerment is real. It is up to the Government to decide on the organization of the territory and there is no impossibility of such sovereignty. If this sovereignty meets the criteria of democratic and popular participation, even better. It seems to us that these criteria have already determined unanimity in the Setúbal Peninsula, regarding its statistical autonomy, let us say so. However, this has not been clear between the PS and the government. In 2017, former Minister Pedro Marques said it was impossible. Later he was rejected by the representative of European Commissioner Elisa Ferreira. In 2020, Minister Ana Abrunhosa said that NUTS III was urgent and later said it would be useless. More recently, Mr. Secretary of State said here that the way was to leave the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon to integrate NUTS Alentejo. Earlier last week, the Federation of the Socialist Party of Setúbal approved a motion, defended by the parliamentary leader Ana Catarina Mendes, in which justice was claimed in access to Community funds for the Setúbal Peninsula. So it seems to us that there is unanimity in Parliament to approve the projects which have already been delivered on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u35	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u36	I'm done now, Mr. President. With regard to the PSD, which comes here to set up a little in champion of this issue, it was also good to have humility and recognize that there are parties who, before this debate and even before the PSD, have delivered projects in the Assembly of the Republic to recognize and recover justice in access to Community funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u37	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u38	And I'm done, Mr. President. Here, the question is whether such unanimity will correspond to an action by the Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u39	Mr Nuno Miguel Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u40	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister is Minister of this Government with the support of the Socialist Party and with the blessing, in practice, with the support of the CFP. There was a government that, in the last seven years, practically had the opportunity to correct what is the great injustice that everyone here talks about, with an investment plan dedicated to the Setubal Peninsula, and never did. He has and has always had instruments for being able to do it, to be able to solve it. Contextually and structurally, it is clear that we need a NUTS. This almost looks like that defect of democracy, in which two wolves and a sheep decide what dinner is: the PCP and PS are wolf figures, the population of the Setúbal Peninsula is sheep figure. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] You who here, in this Parliament, support the government, have cameras of the PS and the PCP, exactly on the Setúbal Peninsula.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u41	Oh, you, uh...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u42	Mr. Minister, why have we not actually had an investment in the Setubal Peninsula so far, which could also be executed? Madam Minister, why have we not had a fair application and a correction of the NUTS so far? Mr Minister, please explain to us what is the legal and legal impediment so that this cannot happen because, if there is none, we have to correct this situation yesterday. As for the ladies. Members, at the moment, what needs to be corrected is the seven years of your governance. You cannot assume your responsibilities and the one who suffers is the Setúbal Peninsula. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u43	It is the turn of the PAN Parliamentary Group. For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u44	Mr President, I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: I welcome the PSD for the theme chosen for this debate. We know that this was an injustice created by the PSD itself, but, of course, we consider that it is good to bring the subject up to debate. Under Law No. 75 / 2013, the Setúbal Peninsula lost its regional identity within the NUTS and deserved the framework in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. We once again understand that this was a logic of rule and framework, in which two territories were joined with very different economic and social characteristics and absolutely asymmetric. A number of data have already been presented that constantialize this. In fact, if we look at the GDP of the Setúbal Peninsula, we see that we are talking about the fourth poorest region of the country, following the Upper Thamega, Thamega and Sousa, Bieiras and Serra da Estrela. Therefore, what we would like to ask, Mrs Minister, is how you intend to solve this problem created in 2013 and how you intend to ensure equitable access from all regions to Community funds. As we are speaking today about the correction of injustices on the level of access to Community funds, we cannot lose the opportunity to ask the Minister — and it would also be important to see the PSD position — which will be the path and position taken by the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion in relation to an injustice that afflicts the entrepreneur Luís Dias, who is in our country making hunger strike for more than 20 days, due precisely to issues related to access to European funds, at the time the PRODER(Rural Development Programme) and now the PDR(Regional Development Plan). Therefore, in the midst of several actions of what was the DAPR Centre ( Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Fisheries of the Centre ), which obviously have to be ascertained, we are talking about a citizen who only claims justice and that the government recognizes the mistakes he has made. We would therefore like to know, on the part of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion, whether it will require the Government to reach an agreement with this agricultural entrepreneur, if the Government is going to stop this hunger strike.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u45	I remind the public in the gallery that, at the moment, due to the pandemic, the entry of people into the galleries is very restricted, so I ask that they do not exercise any form of manifestation, because it is a privilege to be there and not a right. Mr Eurídice Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the 2013 NUTS review, the Lisbon region was replaced by the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, and NUTS III Grande Lisboa and Setúbal Peninsula were eliminated. This elimination was the initiative of the PSD's political authorship. It should also be noted that on that occasion the PSD decided that the Lisbon Metropolitan Area would simultaneously be NUTS III and NUTS II, with all the effects resulting from this equation. The truth is, today, the PSD, years later, called us here to undo what he did. It must be remembered that there is a draft resolution of the PSD which, in time, will be discussed here, and at that time it will be realized that the solution found by the PSD does not solve, at all, but at all, what was presented here by the words of the initial intervention of this parliamentary group. But, actions of contribution from the PSD aside, let's go to the bottom of the matter. of the five NUTS II of the continent — and, as you know, NUTS II are the basis of the appropriations to be allocated to each Member State — three are regions of convergence considered the least developed because they have a per capita GDP below 75 % of the average of the same indicator for the European Union as a whole at 27. There is a transition region, with a per capita GDP between 75 % and 90 %. The Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, which the Setúbal Peninsula is part of, with a per capita GDP of more than 90 %, is considered a very developed region. It turns out that with the statistical figures known and that today will not be very different, the Setúbal Peninsula has recorded a per capita GDP equivalent to only 58 % of the European Union's average, which puts it in the context of a convergence region. However, it has a very developed region treatment. By translating this reality into numbers, Portugal 2030 has EUR 25 billion. The Lisbon Metropolitan Area, through its Regional Operational Programme ( POR ), will have access to support in the same period in the order of EUR 380 million, which, in addition to being a small part of the national funds, still represents less than half the value of the last Community Support Framework 2014-2020, and with co-financing rates to be set down at 40 % when in the country in regions similar to the Setubal Peninsula, they will continue to be set at 85 %. It is widely recognized that the per capita GDP of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, if seen by the average, omits important intra-regional economic imbalances, with aggravated losses for economic convergence and consequently social cohesion. There has been a successive reinforcement of the constraints applicable to the financing of the operations located on the Setúbal Peninsula, which points to the necessity of implementing measures to bring justice to the proceedings, which are completed in time to come into force for the definition of the support to be provided in the table immediately following Portugal 2030. It is public that socialist leaders and autarchs, such as the parliamentary leader, spoke in order to achieve the statistical differentiation of the Setubal Peninsula and consequently the need for the reconstitution of their NUTS III. It is also understood that the creation of two NUTS II in the geographical district of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, Great Lisbon and the Setúbal Peninsula, or solution with equivalent effects, should be studied without jeopardizing the current composition and political and administrative tasks of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, but allowing the Setúbal Peninsula to have appropriate access to European Structural and Investment Funds, appropriate to its levels of wealth development and real cohesion, until this is not only a regional issue, is a matter of planning and national territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u47	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u48	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that on this very important dossier, we know that there is complete availability of the Government to start negotiations with Brussels, in the sense that we have just mentioned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u49	For an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u50	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: First of all, and on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the PSD, through Mr Fernando Negrão, on this initiative and to say that we associate ourselves with the concern that has become widespread here. We are faced with a unique situation, from the point of view of access to European funds, not only by volume, but also by the characteristics of the funds to which we will have access. To that end, it is essential that we do what other countries do and that they have done several times, which is to adapt their reality, according to statistical criteria, to the reality, indeed, of their territory. In order to ensure that statistical units, as they exist, do not harm communities, municipalities, regions which, of course, may lose eligibility by applying these criteria. in this sense, of course, only the Government can make a careful analysis of what will be the practical effect and, in this case, the loss of such application. This is therefore the responsibility of the Government, but of course the Assembly of the Republic is as committed as possible to make the necessary amendments in good time so that we do not only harm any part of the national territory—and today a special attention has been given here, from now on, by Mr Fernando Negrão, to what is happening on the Setúbal Peninsula — as to avoid what has happened in the past, and may come about with other regions of the country. from the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, we associate ourselves with this concern and we also associate ourselves with the appeal to the Government that it may, in due course, promote the amendments so that this damage does not happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u51	Mrs Fernanda Velez of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : The Setúbal Peninsula, which over the decades has played a key role in the economic development of our country, lives walls-measles with rich municipalities on the north bank of the Tejo, but the proximity of a rich does not make our territory rich, by osmosis or magic. With regard to health, education, culture, the social sector, the protection of employment and businesses, there is much to do on the Setúbal Peninsula, and could already have been done in six years of socialist governance. But in order to fulfil its potential for economic and social development, the Setúbal Peninsula needs leverage to public and private investment, under conditions identical to those of other regions with the same economic indicators. Seeing the injustice, more than I discussed it because this is evidence, the PSD wants to know how the government will safeguard the interests of the Setúbal Peninsula. It is behind a political commitment we have seen today, Minister! A commitment from your government to the Setúbal Peninsula! More than promises and announcements, what this bench intends to take from here is a commitment, a concrete answer by the Minister to overcome this issue, i.e. the difficulty of accessing the Setubal Peninsula to financing projects by Community funds. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u53	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u54	Mr President, Madam Minister, I begin by asking you whether you have the notion that, since 2018, the Setúbal Peninsula is the fourth poorest region in Portugal, in terms of divergence from the European average. It is one of the largest and richest regions in the country and presents itself as one of the poorest in Portugal. But I ask you, too, if you know that GDP in this region is 55 % of the European average, I repeat, 55 %, a value that should embarrass us...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u55	Oh! Here comes the shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u56	... anywhere in the world, but it's right here next door in Setúbal. But we also have the promise made by Antonio Costa in 2018 to harmonise the criteria that would allow the allocation of European funds. The PS had a unique and historic opportunity, which was the Presidency of the European Union: it could not only harmonise these criteria at European level, as it knew well that many municipalities in the metropolitan area of Lisbon have a significant increase in GDP in the last two years and that this prevents and continues to prevent the Setúbal Peninsula from receiving European funds as it should be. Furthermore, it was not only the Portuguese studies that pointed out this, the European studies themselves show that, alongside two regions in eastern Europe, the Setúbal Peninsula is the most affected by the unfair distribution of European funds. And it's funny... [[PS Members' laughs.]] If you are not laughing, Mr President, you should be ashamed of this. You should not laugh, you should be ashamed, but you may think that Setúbal is being treated in this way in Parliament. [[PS protests.]] We're already used to that,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u57	Mr. Deputies, you have exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u58	... but you should be ashamed - that your land, like others here, is today the poorest and sights in Europe as the poorest. That's what you should be ashamed of! So, Mrs. Minister, I ask you the question...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u59	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u60	I will finish, but I was interrupted, Mr. President,... [[PS laughter.]] ...and so I ask you to allow me to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u61	Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask you, Minister, the question to which your Members cannot answer: will Antonio Costa, or will he not fulfill the promise, which he made in 2018, to harmonise the European criteria and allow Setubal to receive the funds to which he is entitled, under European law? Oh, my God! [[PS Protests and Arrival Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u63	Mr. Minister of Territorial Cohesion, Ana Abrunhosa, has the floor. [[Continuation of PS Protests and Arrival Protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that there be silence, normal silence, so that we can hear the speeches of the speakers and, in this case, Mr Ana Abrunhosa. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The process of defining eligible regions, which classifys them in convergence, transition or developed regions, for the application of the Community framework 2021 - 2027, commonly known as Portugal 2030, was completed on 8 August 2019, on the basis of the 2013 territorial organisation. It was in the 2013 administrative organization that the statistical « blackout » was implemented at the Setúbal Peninsula, with the Setúbal Peninsula no longer being NUTS III and AML being a single NUTS III and at the same time NUTS II for the Regional Operational Programme of Lisbon ( PO Lisboa ). This means that today's discussion is new and with possible effects on Community funds, but only for the period after 2027. In no way does this discussion affect money from the Community funds under the next Community framework Portugal 2030. The NUTS correspond to the territorial division of the Member States of the European Union, according to three hierarchical levels, for the collection, organization and dissemination of statistics at different territorial levels. However, they have as their first criterion the political and administrative organisation of the regions of the territories of the Member States and take into account demographic criteria. This means, therefore, that there is first a political and administrative organisation of the territory. NUTS III, the territorial division of this nomenclature for more detailed statistical purposes, corresponds to the breakdown of NUTS II and the statistical reading of the supra-municipal political and administrative organization, which, in the Portuguese case, is covered by Law No 75 / 2013, which approves the status of inter-municipal entities. Inter-municipal entities are the inter-municipal communities (IMCs) and metropolitan areas. They are administrative units by force that the law has given them and are therefore NUTS III. If an administrative unit exists on the territory such as an ICD or a metropolitan area, then it corresponds to NUTS III, as set out in Regulation ( EC ) No 1059 / 2003, in Article 3. the Setúbal Peninsula aims to be an autonomous NUTS III. However, NUTS III does not, in itself, resolve what the territory claims, insofar as the classification of regions, as less developed regions, in transition or developed, is carried out at a NUTS II scale, as the regulation of common provisions, which was still consensualized in the German Presidency and supported by statistical data for the period 2015 - 2017. For the Setúbal Peninsula to have access to a higher participation rate, it is not enough to constitute as NUTS III. The share rate of NUTS III is defined, as we all know, by its NUTS II to which it belongs. In the specific case, it is the territory of AML, NUTS II, which is the territory of the Lisbon Regional Operational Programme. It is considered possible and desirable to have a specific strategy for the Setúbal Peninsula, integrated in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area strategy. in this context, and within this strategy, which has already been approved in the regional council, it is possible, in the light of the models defined by Community and national regulations, to adapt the best form of financing to the sub-regional specificities, always taking into account the allocation of the operational programme and the category of the region. In the current Community framework, specific notices and notices have been opened with an increase in participation rates for the territory of the Setúbal Peninsula, including notices for companies and notices for municipalities and IPSS. With the possible constitution of the Setúbal Peninsula as NUTS III, we will have to organize the remaining territory also in NUTS III, so we will have the metropolitan area, while NUTS II, with two NUTS III. Only being a NUTS II is that the Setúbal Peninsula will not be limited by the participation rate of the NUTS II of the PO Lisboa, which is the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. in this context, the participation rate will have to result from the evaluation and classification of the European Commission, in 2027. But for the Setúbal Peninsula to belong to a separate NUTS II, it will naturally cease to be part of the NUTS II Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, i.e. we will have two NUTS II in what is today the geographical area of the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. The Government is next to those who want to improve the conditions for access to Community funding. And, in view of this unanimity around the subject, we put ourselves on the side of the solution. The Government is now available to propose the constitution of NUTS III Setúbal Peninsula to the European Commission. This will involve the setting up of two NUTS III in the territory of the Lisbon Metropolitan Area and therefore close coordination with the European Commission and Eurostat, which is the statistical authority. The deadlines for this process are defined by Eurostat timetables, are public and well known. With regard to the creation of NUTS II for the Setúbal Peninsula, the Government is once again available to study its possible creation. We believe, however, that this reflection should be made by considering the context of the regionalisation process that is intended to be done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u65	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando Negrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress a point which was created here by the « left-wing front », which was to point out the finger. It is part of the nature and culture of any front to point the finger. Again this happened, saying it was a mistake what was done in 2013.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u67	And he's gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u68	I would like to add that if this was a mistake, you lived and live well with this mistake, since you have been ruling the country for almost seven years and have not changed a comma to what existed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u69	Therefore, you like to rule with the mistake, if that was a mistake. What happens is that the error is that the PS does not have a policy for the economy, the error is that the PS does not have any sensitivity to the economic fabric and to companies in Portugal, the mistake is that they do not have a sensitivity to the creation of employment policies. The mistake, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you're still finding that the South of the country is the desert. This is actually your mistake and you can't get out of here. It is good, Mrs Minister, to draw some complexity from the solution just presented here, because it is complex and, being complex, it is difficult to achieve, especially in temporal terms. And Setúbal needs, as bread for the mouth, simple and clear solutions, as is done in the great Berlin, as was done in the great Warsaw, as happens in certain municipalities of the Metropolitan Area of Porto. That is possible, Mrs. Minister, and I ask you not to make what is more complex, before, to make what is difficult in simple and clear, so that people understand. This is all we want, not only me, not only us, but also the other parties, especially the PCP, and all the structures of civil society on the Setubal Peninsula. The church, the authorities, the IPSS is what they want: clarity and simple solutions, in order to regain access to Community funds. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u70	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers, so we can move on to the second item of our agenda for the assessment of Petition No 47 / XIV / 1. a ( Together by the southwest ) — The Natural Park of the Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina can't take more intensive agriculture! , together with, in general, the Bill No. 756 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Update of the characterization and diagnosis of the state of protected areas and design approval regime, with Resolution Projects Nos 243 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government that the conditions of agricultural workers in the Perimeter de Rega do Mira be adapted to the fundamental principles patented in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, 695 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Prevent the expansion of greenhouses and intensive agricultural crops in general in the Perimeter de Rega do Mira - Parque Natural do Sudeeste Alentejano e Costa Vicentina, 820 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the recovery of the biodiversity of the Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina Natural Park and the ecological transition of agriculture of the Perimeter de Rega do Mira, and with, in general, the Bill No. 835 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Sets out the measures to be taken as a matter of urgency for the updating and compliance of the Plan of Management of the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina ( POPNSACV), providing for the immediate and provisional suspension of new intensive or superintensive agricultural facilities in the Natural Park. You have the floor to open the debate, Mr João Dias, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to greet and greet the more than 6000 petitioners who have signed the petition and those who have carried it out. It is a right that they exercise and therefore I greet and greet them, until it comes here with a very important theme: « The Natural Park of the Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina can no longer bear intensive agriculture! Do not keep on seeking. ” The PCP understood to add to this petition a bill that determines the updating of the characterization and diagnosis of the state of the protected areas and the system of approval of projects in territories inserted into the National Network of Protected Areas, as is the case with the Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina Natural Park. Mrs. Members: The Plan of Management of the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina was approved on 11 December 1995, with a view to adequate management, ensuring the safeguarding of natural resources, promoting sustainable development and the quality of life of populations. On 15 June 1999, the letter of management of the Natural Park was added, followed by several resolutions of the Council of Ministers in 2001, and finally the well-known Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 179, of October 2019. It is a resolution full of casuistic measures, of remedies, of temporary measures, of increasing the area of greenhouses or greenhouses, carried out by some, accepting the violations committed to the legislation and the environmental and social attacks in view of everyone. It is a resolution against the will of the citizens, without listening to them, without taking into account their knowledge of reality and leaving out the real stakeholders, agricultural producers, fishermen, local authorities, authorities and populations. It is a resolution that deceives the hope that citizens have deposited in the institution and in the managers of the Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina Natural Park, which would preserve and develop, value and respect the values present, in an perspective of sustainability and diversity. After all, it didn't happen in a set of promises. It is a resolution that forgets and puts in the drawer the so propagated environmental education that would take place in schools, with farmers and the general population. It is a resolution where the government says it wants to produce a profound transformation, but in practice it is a hand full of nothing, with immense prohibitions only for some, marked by disrespect for those who live there, by their traditions, imposing the law of the strongest and most powerful, prevailing plastic by everything that is placed in an almost continuous spot. It is a resolution that, with decisions of this calibre, secondaryity or, better, completely ignores the convergence between the defence of natural values and sustainable development. Mrs. Members, the current government, made such important decisions for the future of the Natural Park. The question we want to know is, what information or studies have helped you to support these decisions? Where is the definition of permissible load for each type of project or activity sector, considering the analysis of pressures on the environment, natural values, the quality of life of populations, including, Mr. Members, infrastructure and access to public services and influence on traditional activities? What's the limit, sirs? Ladies and gentlemen? Or, after all, is there no limit and everything can be permitted as long as it is compensated? And more: why is this Natural Park, in designated times as one of the most preserved and natural jewels in Europe, now facing serious threats to its sustainability, safeguarding natural resources and ecosystems? They cannot deny that in these territories there have been profound changes, many related to intensive and superintensive agricultural practices, in particular stoves, stoves or tunnels, which have been allowed over the past 10 years and in which there have been lack of actions to defend and safeguard the natural heritage that was based on the classification of this protected area. It is with these specific concerns related to this Park, but also with the troupe that are being committed in many other protected areas, that the PCP presents this bill. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u72	For an intervention by the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by welcoming the movement of citizens together in the south-west, representing the more than 6000 petitioners who today bring to this House a concern and a struggle that has been stalling for too long, these people who have been the true supporters of this Natural Park, a mission that should be carried out structurally by the government. The NAP fully endorses the demands expressed in the petition, because it knows, as the title of the petition itself indicates, that the Natural Park of the Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina can no longer sustain intensive agriculture. And we deeply regret the constant shrugging of the Government's shoulders on this problem, since this is not a new reality, nor for which the Government has been constantly alerted. The health crisis finally made the Government admit the humanitarian drama on these intensive agricultural holdings, proving once again that the environmental impacts and how nature is explored also correlated with the way human beings are exploited. The unbalanced and degrading advance of this plastic sea in which is a Natural Park, since it is classified as a protected area, must be stopped and any type of intensive or superintensive agricultural installation or exploitation must be subjected to a regime itself. Without this regime, everything will be kept as before, to the apparent good taste of the Ministers of Environment and Agriculture: between silence, little saying and nothing to do to fulfill the ordination and protection of this Natural Park. in a region characterized by a considerable seasonality, agriculture is obviously an activity of extreme relevance to the local economy, but it cannot be at the expense of human rights, natural values and the survival of other activities, such as hotels, beaches and nature tourism. The Government has not so far disclosed the areas occupied through the agricultural activities carried out in this Natural Park, but, Mrs and Mrs. Members, IGAMAOT (General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Land Planning) did its work and gave the Government a report in 2017, where it made it clear that, as a result of the absence of a legal regime to license intensive and superintensive agricultural activity, it follows what we can call « all value ». What the NAP here is proposing today is nothing less than fulfilling what the General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea and the Environment has told the Government that it was about to comply with with with the preservation of the Natural Park of Costa Vicentina and the Southwest Alentejo. For this purpose it is necessary to establish measures to be taken with urgency for the updating and compliance of the planning plan of this Natural Park. It is necessary to place an order in the house, to obtain order in the Natural Park, to suspend immediately and provisionally new intensive or superintensive agricultural facilities. We cannot expect that the water resources that supply the region will be completely exhausted to understand what we already know today, that is, this is an unsustainable model that needs to be regulated immediately. The Nature Protection League yesterday informed the European Commission of the total destruction in the south-west coast of priority habitats whose conservation — no doubt, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — was the target of European funding. In the vote of the bill that the NAP brings here today, accompanying the petitioners, who are on the right side of history, we will know who, indeed, either the protection of this Natural Park or who only cares who is effectively on the side of the environment or who just wants to limit itself to waving flags.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u74	Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor to present his draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Long before the problems in Odemira have gained a media dimension, with cases of exploitation and trafficking in human beings, The Greens have repeatedly denounced, including here, in this House, the problem of proliferation of intensive agricultural crops and covered areas in greenhouses that have transformed the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina into a real light of open-air plastic. As we know, these agricultural practices are quite consumer of water, pesticides and fertilizers. And this framework is very demonstrative of the environmental impacts that occur here and which are a contradiction in relation to central objectives, such as the bet on a friendly agriculture of the environment and a robust process of adaptation to climate change, which we need to take very seriously and not accommodate only in speeches. The fact is that the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 179/ 2019 has allowed an increase in areas covered with greenhouses in the Mira River Perimeter. Now, from the perspective of DOS Verdes, this determination is environmentally destructive and questions the ecological balance of this Natural Park. Currently, greenhouses and tunnels constitute real visual and physical barriers, not only affecting people, but also wildlife, such as micromamifers, reptiles, amphibians, that is, a significant set of biodiversity in the area. On the other hand, the proliferation of intensive crops has generated a change in soil morphology, leading to destruction, terraplanning and drainage of temporary tanks and other wetlands. It happens that these agricultural practices are conflicting, open and directly, with the preservation of natural values that the creation of the Park sought to preserve. And it is due to situations like this that it is legitimate to say that often protected areas consist only of the decrees that create them and, in practice, are effectively unprotected areas. And this is absolutely unacceptable! The Greens, in addition to denouncing the wrong political options of various governments that have devalued the conservation of nature and biodiversity, constantly giving in to economic pressures, can also not fail to denounce the inconsistencies of a European Union which creates conservation projects, such as the LIFE Programme, which funds initiatives for the recovery and protection of temporary tanks, and at the same time uncomprehensibly finance agricultural projects that destroy these same natural values. Now, this is to play with public money and demonstrates a deep disrespect for the European Union for its citizens and for the genuine objective of sustainable development. It adds to all this a very worrying social insensitivity, when, for example, the resolution determines conditions of unacceptable living conditions for agricultural workers, or when the investment is not made necessary for public services to respond to the needs of the population that have been verified and planned. This also needs to be emphasized, because it is necessary to state that it cannot be worth everything, by referring environmental and social matters to disconcerting plans and that it is particularly worth the economic strategy of short-term profit. After all, it's unsustainability we're dealing with! These are the main concerns that have led us to present this legislative initiative, also seeking to meet the demands and objectives of the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition which is also under discussion and whose subscribers take advantage of, on behalf of the Greens, to welcome, in particular those who today accompany the work with us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u76	For the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr Ricardo Vicente has the floor to present the draft resolution of his party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to begin by thanking the thousands of petitioners who have subscribed to the petition « The Natural Park of the Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vice-Ntina can no longer sustain intensive agriculture! "and affirm the support of the Left Block to the proposals submitted by the same petitioners. For example, in the Odemira municipality, there were dozens of temporary tanks — the last five were now destroyed by the installation of intensive and superintensive crops, denounced LPN (Liga for the Protection of Nature) — referring to a set of natural values that had public support between 2013 and 2018 for its restoration and preservation. These same projects that received public support to be preserved were now run by concrete investments in intensive production infrastructures that landed the entire previous investment. Now, this is just one example of how we drift in this country, where intensive agriculture extends from North to South and destroys landscape, natural and cultural heritage, without minimum rules, or protection of public interests. This unregulated agriculture has had the government's condescendence, which has done nothing to stop this abuse and which, in addition to having done nothing to stop this abuse, is still promoting its implementation, encouraging agricultural production models that are contrary to public interest, especially in the time of climate change, when destruction tends to worsen and when very contrary resilience mechanisms are needed. Today, we have petitioners here, we have protesters at the door of the Assembly of the Republic — and it will continue, with an increasing force, because there is increasing population, more and more organizations, more and more academics who join this protest and who deny this path, denouncing its impact. Last Friday, the Left Block brought concrete proposals to this House, which were voted on. These are two draft laws that propose: the compulsory licensing for the installation of intensive crops; the environmental impact assessment for all areas with more than 20 hectares of greenhouses, whether new or accumulated in continuity; the creation of landscape plans for all public water perimeters and the prohibition of the installation of new intensive plants and crops until the publication of this plan; the mandatory practice of rotations and fertilizers, to counter the advancement of destructive monocultures; minimum mandatory measures for the prevention of soil erosion; the obligation to devote 5 to 15 % of the areas of agricultural holdings to ecological infrastructures necessary for the reduction of pesticides and fertilizers; the increase of the price of water in public regattas, in order to achieve the actual costs, with a discount of 25 % for holders of the Family Agriculture Statute, leaving all vessels in the form of water and fertilizers that are wasted in the territory; All these measures had the votes against the Socialist Party and the right and the abstention of the CFP. We have also proposed the prohibition of spraying with turbines less than 250 m of housing, public roads and large water lines, and the prohibition of spraying with aircraft. There is no lack of precision alternatives to meet these needs, but PCP, PS and right voted against. Thus, they demonstrated their responsibility, as co-managers of these intensive production models, in the territory of the various municipalities that govern at the local level. Today, the Left Block proposes a draft resolution recommending to the Government the implementation of actions to recover species, habitats and ecosystems in the Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina Natural Park. The recently destroyed temporary tanks are just an example of loss of biodiversity, which requires response. We propose an increase in surveillance in the region and the strengthening of the human, technical and financial resources of the supervisory bodies in the areas of the environment, work, housing and migration. We insist on the need for an environmental impact assessment of new agricultural holdings and the guarantee of compliance with the regulation of the Natural Park Planning Plan of the Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina and the requirements of the bird and habitat directives relating to the Natura 2000 Network. We also propose the creation of an ecological transition programme for the entire Mira River Perimeter, with the abandonment of monoculture, ensuring rotations and associations based on stable work models, without recourse to intermediation, which is today a business for trafficking in people and therefore needs to be stopped, also with the prospect that those who do not comply cannot receive public support. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u78	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by congratulating the petitioners, who bring us this issue, which is not, in fact, a new issue. over the past few years, in particular over the last month, we have discussed it many times. I think it is important to realize that what we are discussing is a latent conflict between two realities that are territorially and geographically overlapping: on the one hand, we have the Perimeter de Rega do Mira, a structure of recreation formed in that territory in the 1960s, therefore for decades ; on the other hand, we have the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina, formed in 1988. These two realities are geographically overlapping. So the first thing I would like to make clear is that I do not think that it was the resolution of the Council of Ministers in 2019 that generated a problem. The clash between these two realities and the use of the territory resulting from them is that they generate a conflict. In addition—as it has been visible not only in this debate, but in many others we have already done—that agriculture, especially agriculture as an economic activity and not as a subsistence activity, is increasingly seen as the public enemy number one by some political forces and is therefore an easy target of attack. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important, more than diabolicizing this or that activity, to understand what we want. If what we want is a Natural Park without any agricultural activity, then what the parties must propose is the abolition of the Mira River Perimeter, and we have a park and a natural reserve with tourist use—in fact, I know excellent examples of tourism, in particular nature tourism, in this matter—and we assume, for us, for Parliament, that Park serves for tourists to see. It is therefore possible that there are biological gardens, even exploited, perhaps by some more urban families that enjoy spending the weekends there, but agriculture as an economic activity the Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be prohibited. I can discuss these two visions, however, saying that we want agriculture to continue to be diabolical to agriculture that actually exists there is that I can no longer understand. If we accept the principle that the Water Perimeter of Mira should be maintained and that it serves for agricultural activity, that means that agricultural activity will remain there. I would also like to point out one last, most importantly, aspect of the human issue, because we often discuss the working conditions which are often unacceptable in this place. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if we want to work with dignity — and I am sure that we all want it — of the two, one: or we acknowledge that it must be possible to build for there to be housing with dignity for those working in this territory,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u80	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u81	... or, then, we will have to conclude that some Mr. Members understand that there should be no agriculture and that, therefore, people should return to their lands and that this is how the problem will be solved. from my point of view, housing needs to be built with dignity. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u82	Mr Pedro do Carmo of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by complimenting the petitioners, in particular the delegation here present. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we are discussing a petition and various legislative initiatives on Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina. We need to know what the Natural Park is. The total area of the Natural Park is 98 000 ha, in which the Mira River Perimeter occupies 12 000 ha, of which 7500 are being irrigated and cultivated and about 1500 are agricultural under cover, i.e. greenhouses.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u84	Much of it is water!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u85	The water perimeter represents 7, 6 % of the park area and the covered area represents only 1, 5 % of the park area. Basically, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is being proposed is that a 'no' is to be accepted as a future solution for those communities, without presenting alternatives for those who have to live there in 365 days of the year, besides sporadic visits or summer holidays, for those who have to seek employment opportunities and for those who have to manage daily conditionalisms and bureaucracies of tens of entities who are not subject to any democratic scrutiny. The « no », the proposed prohibitions are not a solution for people, local economies and the national economy. The challenge, Mrs. Members, it is to reconcile preservation with development, it is not to prohibit without presenting alternatives, as has happened for so many years in the Southwest Alentejano. [[Protests by Mr. BE Ricardo Vicente.]] The challenge, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is to find new points of balance in sustainability, working conditions, housing, dynamizing local economies and valuing the territory, not only for those who work there in agriculture, but also for all others. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the 'no' has never been a solution. The ‘no’ could exist only if there were as an alternative real, effective and concrete measures to generate employment opportunities, create wealth in local economies and provide conditions for the establishment of the population. Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina are now in the attention of the media and some of those who are never present when the State Budget has to be negotiated and resources to find concrete solutions for those people and for those territories. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u86	South-West Alentejano and Costa Vice-Ntina need no more prohibitions, they need no more « no», as they have always had over four decades of democracy. Of what the Southwest Alentejo needs, Mr. Members, it is solutions: solutions that safeguard the natural park matrix, but that generate responses for the people who live and work there; solutions that seek new environmental balances in soil occupation and water management, without putting at risk the productive capacity, which is fundamental, Mrs. Members, for local economies, for the national market and for national exports. South-West Alentejano and Costa Vice-Ntina need answers that say 'yes' to the people, who present opportunities, who invest in people and in the territory. Just after, sirs. Members, the 'no' which does not solve any future and destroy the present may be considered. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To improve is never to prohibit without sustainable and real alternatives, without thinking about the people who live and work there. We do not accept stigmas or bans for the Southwest Alentejano and the Costa Vicentina without alternatives for those who are never on the radar of the construction of solutions. The 'no' is no solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u87	Mrs Emília Cerqueira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by welcoming the petitioners and, in a little way, meeting the words that have already been said, to say that we are discussing in circles, always the same matter, as if there were an impossibility of the coexistence of the Natural Park with the Perimeter of Rega do Mira, as if feeding the populations were incompatible with the enjoyment of nature, when in Portugal our landscapes are humanized and they all have the presence of Man. It is important that this distinction be made. It is also important to focus on the question: The Perimeter de Rega do Mira is from the 50s, built in the 60s and finished in 1973. Chronology, in this case, is important. When the Constitution of the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina was established in 1988, only about a decade later is that it is actually operationalized and becomes real existence. Why refer to this chronology? Because before the Natural Park, agriculture was already there, the Man was there and the economic exploitation of the region already existed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u89	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u90	They always existed together, regardless of their classification. The territory does not appear on the day it is classified, it was already there, and it was already there as it is and as it continues. As has already been mentioned — it is important that this issue should also be refocused — the greenhouse area, which has brought together all the political debate, all the attacks and all the attempts to end this type of agricultural exploitation, represents 1, 6 % of the area — 1, 6 %! It is because, ladies and gentlemen, when we hear the debates and the political agendas, it seems to be on the contrary that the area of the Natural Park is 1, 6 % and that the rest is a greenhouse area. It's not! It's just a very small part. Let me also tell all those who, every day, attack the agricultural production of the Perimeter of Rega do Mira the following: I imagine many, while enjoying a juice of red fruits or avocado beat, to say how pernicious and negative it is to cultivate the red fruits and avocados, or the avocados, or the garlic, or the pea, or all that is produced there and that is essential to supply our houses and our diet rich in fruits, vegetables, vegetables, we implore every day...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u91	Of the best! Of the best!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u92	...be of the best there is. More: will we change-CL - for any products whose small ecological footprint is to go and look for them across the world, which instead of travelling 50 km travel 50 000 km, or 20 000 km or 30 000 km? Oh, my God! Are these the good environmental practices? That said, made this refocus of the debate, let us go to the facts. The PSD has long been concerned about the issue of housing, the question of labour, the question of supervision, the question of lack of means. We have submitted projects, which have been approved. Just remember - as I recalled last week, a draft resolution presented in 2019, and approved by this Assembly, which provided for all these situations. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u93	But in order to have a serious debate, these issues cannot be mixed with the agricultural production itself. We cannot mix producers and farmers who actually violate the rules and the law with what agro-food production is, because this cannot be mixed. The violation of the law must be penalized, production must be encouraged.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u94	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u95	More: what is the future to feed our populations is called precision agriculture, low energy consumption agriculture, water drop to drop with maximum efficiency in water use, with maximum efficiency in the use of all resources, whose foundation is to produce more with less and less space. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u96	It is here, on the one hand, saying 'we want precision agriculture' and on the other hand saying 'we will end it, because we do not like it'. Once and for all, we have to decide what we want! But if we come here to discuss good environmental practices, the appreciation of biodiversity, the landscape, the PSD will always be in this discussion, to discuss best practices, how to evolve so that there is an even more efficient use, so that water losses are combated, the lack of water grasping — because one of the things that everyone tells us is that in Portugal there is no lack of water, water is lost — the ways to make that water not get lost. For this purpose, all the PSD will be here, because the PSD is always with the populations, with the economy, with the territory and with the best environmental and also agricultural practices. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u97	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by congratulating the petitioners and saying that there seem to be two Socialist Parties: the Socialist Party that votes and governs and the Socialist Party of Mr Pedro do Carmo, who speaks, and speaks with reason. The only reason he has is that no one will hear what Mr Pedro do Carmo says. So it seems that maybe it was better here on this side...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u99	It's not worth offending!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u100	... of what is on the PS bench because, indeed, Mr. Member speaks, but the Socialist Party does not seem to listen to it. It is also curious that the left is saying that the Government is not fulfilling this. And he's not! It is not complying with the over-exploration of resources and monitoring due to this area. Indeed, the Government is in violation not only of the Environmental Basics Act, but also of the Law on Conservation of Nature and Biodiversity. This, as you know, is the responsibility of the government rather than the opposition. Nor does it fail to be funny to come here to complain about the financing of intensive agricultural practices and living conditions, because when it comes to the State budget it does not impose this on the Socialist Party! Where are they going when the State Budget is being negotiated? At that time they should say 'or this or we do not approve the Budget'! [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] It is very easy to come here throughout the whole year to say that this must be done and that, but when those Socialist Party gentlemen threaten you to leave if you do not approve the State budget, you shut up, "put the rape in the bag" and get out of the way.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u101	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u102	It is therefore very simple: if you do not want this model of financing agricultural policy in Portugal, two months from now they tell the Socialist Government 'or this or nothing' and they leave. That's how they should do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u103	I have the floor, Mr André Pinotes Batista, of the PS Parliamentary Group, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring some calm to the end of this debate. It is always difficult to hear a Member who accuses other doubt parties, when we know that he has three programmes and four sides. But we're going to put ourselves in what really matters. Being moderate is, in fact, an increasingly difficult exercise today, but increasingly necessary. And we cannot diabolize a sector as a way to solve some excesses that we recognize may occur. This is an appeal that we want to leave and that seems to us to gather more consensus in this Chamber than the borders of each party force. It is also in this sense that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would like to leave a challenge to the NAP, so that it can bring its initiative, without voting, down to its committee, in order to find common ways. It is that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group wants to ascertain its willingness to evolve in the legal articulation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u105	Oh, that's beautiful!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u106	... in particular in the management plans of the areas of the Natura 2020 network, especially those under more intense anthropomorphic pressure. So it seems that, apart from the noise of the demagogues of the custom, there may be a way here to do it, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group made this appeal, in the certainty that together, with moderation, the democratic, truly democratic forces could build a path and serve the people. As for the rest, I would never speak to the passion that Peter of Carmo spoke to. Such is the one who represents his territory, it is not the one who discovered the Alentejo Coast yesterday to go to the Conporta to drink a glass of bleeding. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u107	You have the floor, for a few seconds, Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I note that the Socialist Party, by the way, is only available to articulate with the NAP the legislative initiative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u109	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u110	... where there are at least three more initiatives under discussion. But everyone will know about you. Mr Pedro do Carmo, says that it is not a solution... As things are this is that it is not a solution! The Resolution of the Council of Ministers No. 179 / 2019, which, of course, no one already claims to be Mr. Environment and Climate Action, having become practically isolated, did not create the problem but worsened it because it actually extended the area covered by greenhouses. In fact, if the resolution promoted a reduction in the covered areas, the breakdown that is occurring in the Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina Natural Park would tend to decrease and not increase, as is happening in sight. What is more, the frightening decrease in the water reserve of Santa Clara Dam is the portrait.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u111	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u112	I will finish, Mr. President. I just wanted to say that it is necessary to bear in mind that the Odemira Municipal Assembly, which is of the Socialist Party, unanimously approved a motion calling for exactly the repeal of that resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u113	I have the floor for one speech, Mr João Dias, of the CFP, which has even less time than the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are faced with a decision that the Government has taken, not having done what the CFP has proposed here, that is, it should have studied the state of conservation of the current protected areas, in particular this one, should have evaluated the load capacity to which it may be subject in that area and should have evaluated the environmental impacts of future projects. But no, because they didn't want to do anything, they set up a working group. Allow me, Mr President, to conclude by saying this: there are political forces that have not yet realized how far their initiatives are. We cannot evaluate an initiative just for its title! These initiatives have scope, and prohibitionist measures that affect all agriculture, small and medium-sized agriculture throughout the country, we cannot follow, because agribusiness has many ways to circumvent these prohibitionist measures and those that are lost are small and medium-sized agriculture, harming our food supply capacity, increasing imports. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u115	We have reached the end of this item on the agenda. The assessment of Petition No 95 / XIV / 1 is followed. a ( Platform for Dance Schools in Portugal ) — Opening of dance schools - support and measures, together with Resolution Projects Nos 865 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Adaptation of the rules of confinement to the specificities of dance schools, 871 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Dance support measures, 910 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure the adoption of measures to support dance schools, 925 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Requalification of the National Conservatory and valorization and defense of artistic education at the School of Music and at the School of Dance, 926 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Support for dance schools due to mandatory closure for the COVID-19 and 933 / XIV / 2 pandemic. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends the urgent conclusion of the works to re-qualify the building of the National Conservatory. To present the diploma of the Left Block, Mrs Alexandra Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I welcome the Dance Platform — National Dance Association for the petition that is discussed here today and for the information it shared when it was heard in a hearing by the Committee on Culture and Communication on the serious damage the confinement caused in these structures. This despite providing distance activities to their students and students, contributing to physical and psychological well-being and to maintaining minimum levels of socialization, userliness and isolation of people in confinement, which is, we know for a long time, one of the benefits of recognized dance. Beyond the most critical point — it is expected — of the pandemic crisis, dance schools continue to be essential in the recovery of the effects caused by it. However, the sector has never been targeted specifically, whether within the framework of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economics and Digital Transition or even the Ministry of Education, since these entities were associated with gymnasiums and their particular character was not taken into account, making it virtually impermissible to reopen in June 2020. In the second defination, discriminatory and unfair measures were applied, since the opening of schools and not others was allowed. The Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture authorized the opening of schools enrolled in ANQEP (National Agency for Qualification and Vocational Education), which prevented other schools from opening. The Dance Platform — National Dance Association estimates that more than 10 % of schools have closed, that many professionals have been forced to leave the activity and that the situation tends to get worse. in this sequence, the draft resolution of the Block of Left, which today presents itself, accounts of a universe that characterizes the sector, involving about 500 establishments, in school format, association, federation, micro or small companies, attended by 700,000 students of all ages and with 5000 professionals. In these sectors there are several intersections that the pandemic crisis itself has made visible in dance, in its multiple aspects — articulated, integrated, complementary, extracurricular, professional or amateur teaching. It is a cultural activity and a learning activity, from which many families take their livelihood; it generates dynamism in the community; it is an economic activity; it contributes to territorial cohesion. Dance schools have played a significant role in the formation of many generations of professional dancers and dance teachers and their closure may have consequences in the future of dance in Portugal. Therefore, it is very important that the Directorate-General for Health creates and disseminates measures adapted to the reality of dance teaching in all its aspects, in dialogue with the entities involved, to save the sector and as a contribution to the health of people, either through the strengthening of the ADAPTAR programme, the opening of a new competition accessible to all kinds of non-profit associations, businesses and entrepreneurs, as well as the unlocking of financial support and exemptions to this sector of activity. Access to culture is a constitutional precept of which the use and practice of dance at different levels certainly make, from there, the relevance of the draft resolution of the Left Block and the other projects in the same direction. The Block of the Left also accompanies the draft resolutions of the Green Party and the CDS on the urgent resumption of the works of re-qualification of the National Conservatory, so that worthy teaching and safety conditions in music and dance schools are guaranteed, that temporary facilities meet the same requirements, that there is coordination with the educational community, that strengthen the means — financial, physical and human — and that knowledge is given to the entire educational community of the completion of the work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u117	Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the CFP wants to greet the petitioners, particularly the Dance Platform — National Dance Association and the more than 6000 subscribers to this petition, which we are discussing here today, and to say that, already in committee, we are accompanying the concerns expressed about the reality of dance schools. And as of January 2020, the CFP entered the draft resolution No 871 / XIV / 2. a, with measures to support dance. In fact, at the time, the numbers that existed — it remains to be confirmed if they are still at the same point — accounted for about 500 dance schools in our country, with about 70,000 students and 5000 professionals. We know that most schools closed in March 2020, during the first confinement decreed. Its reopening took place only from 1 June and, at that time, in November, the first balance sheet that was possible to carry out indicated that 10 % of the academies had not been able to resist and had even had to close doors. However, it was noticed that reality worsened over time. With the second confinement, there were indeed measures that treated schools unequally, only those that corresponded to the reference of the National Qualification and Professional Education Agency could work, and many of the classes that existed not only for learning purposes, but for playful purposes ceased to exist in presence format. What at the time, the Platform of the National Dance Association referred to in the Assembly of the Republic was that it was not involved or heard in the process of drawing up recommendations for the sector, which then brought difficulties in the resumption of the activity, because there were standards that were not adapted to its reality. Specifically, they did not feel them as logical in their application to the reality in which they operated, finding themselves inadequate. Through this draft resolution, the CFP refers to the need to respond to urgent issues arising from the scope of the epidemic, but no further substantive issues and a policy that strengthens dance in our country can be forgotten, encouraging the practice of this artistic activity. With our draft resolution, we have seen a logic of strengthening support for dance in the context of combating the epidemiological infection of the COVID-19 disease, and adaptations are still needed with a view to normalization resulting from the resumption of activity; greater coverage of access to support by non-profit associations, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and also by independent workers working in this area; the evaluation of the real impact of measures taken in the context of this epidemic in dance teaching and dance schools, which is important to know that initiatives need to be taken by the Government to solve the greatest problems remaining; and measures that can streamline the activity of dance education, ensuring all health security. All are urgent measures which we believe must be taken. In addition to these, there are other substantive issues which the CFP brings as a recommendation, namely those relating to the evaluation of the current tax system of dance classes for non-free schools, promoting measures to encourage the practice of activity, the strengthening of public support for arts in general and in all areas, including those specifically directed to dance; and also the public discussion with a view to defining a national cultural policy for dance—a strategic vision involving trade unions, associations, schools and the various actors in this artistic area, to ensure that, indeed, there is a logic in cultural policy regarding dance in our country. It remains to be noted that the CFP will follow the initiatives that aim at strengthening responses through dance support measures and will also accompany, because it seems essential to us, the projects that recommend the requalification of the National Conservatory, the appreciation and defense of artistic education in music school and dance school, projects that seem fundamental to ensure, here too, quality of education, with a school to agree, so the draft resolution of the ENP and the CDS relating to this subject will also count on our favourable vote. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u119	For an intervention by the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the Platform for Dance Schools in Portugal for defending measures to support dance schools that, in the context of COVID-19, have seen their situation clearly worsened. We extend this greeting to all dance schools, teachers and students, who for over a year are experiencing situations of great uncertainty, due to the health context in which we are. This context has brought harmful effects to dance schools. Before the crisis, this was a free-growth activity, with more than 500 dance schools, about 70 000 students and 5000 professionals from different age groups. Due to this health crisis, 10 % of schools had already closed in the third quarter of 2020 and it was estimated that by January this year, with the end of the support in force, this figure could rise to 50 %. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this catastrophic scenario has indeed come to pass. at the same time that this scenario took place, we witnessed the great difficulties of teachers and professionals in the sector, being forced to leave their work, and those who resisted having average monthly income breaks in the order of 500 €. The future of this important fun, educational and cultural activity is at risk in our country. If the existing support framework is not significantly improved, there is a risk of irreversibly losing a hub for the dynamisation of local communities and local trade. This sector will not be saved by support measures leaving out dance schools that are not subject to the obligation of organised accounting or schools that are exempt from VAT ( value added tax) or from IRC ( income tax for corporate persons ). These measures do not give an answer to the sector's emergency. Therefore, the NAP proposes a recommendation that public support for dance schools should be strengthened in its volume and scope and duration and that a new ADAPTAR Programme competition be opened which is accessible to all associations, businesses and entrepreneurs, because we believe that this will only be possible to ensure the survival of this sector. What we also understand is that the future cannot be a return to a past whose consequences were visible in the health crisis. Therefore, we also propose that a mapping of vulnerability or precariousness be made in the dance sector so that the reality of the sector can be thoroughly known and a diagnosis of the measures necessary to ensure the labour and social protection of these professionals can be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u121	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens follow the concerns reflected in the petition « Opening of Dance Schools — Supports and Measures ». The Greens have no doubt that action is needed to save dance schools. I use to greet the more than 6000 subscribers of this petition. These schools represent a very relevant element of physical exercise practice, motivation for activity and are even spaces where professional dancers come from. There are about 500 dance schools in the country, with 70,000 students and thousands of professionals. Dance schools were equated to gyms for confinement purposes, when their needs are different. The culture, in general, was highly penalized, when it was complying with all the safety rules and functioning without any outbreaks originating in its areas of activity. Dance schools were not heard by the Ministry of Culture. This would have allowed an adjustment of rules and an assessment of necessary support. It is in order to contribute to solving a serious problem with which these dance schools are faced, and because we consider it unthinkable that they close their eyes to the possible closure of dozens of dance schools, that the Green Parliamentary Group advocates that the Government should listen to the representative structures of dance schools and their professionals, so as to be able to measure the real effects of the closure that they have been decreed and the means necessary to avoid the definitive closure of many of these schools, especially those that strengthen the support they need so much. Regarding the National Conservatory, which was created in 1836, at the old Caetanos Convent, located in the Upper Quarter, in Lisbon, is a public establishment for the teaching of the arts. This building assumes an architectural and cultural value highlighted by the artistic functions that the National Conservatory Schools have performed in the formation of the various artistic fields. We speak of a living space with concerts, auditions and classes, with marks of structural degradation and absence of conservation works. For example, the Nobre Hall was located with one of the lateral balconies supported by iron manholes not to fall, there are ceilings with holes, there are classrooms with cracks, the electrical system is damaged, there are broken tiles, there are a considerable number of damaged material, among other problems that called into question the safety and well-being of all those who attended the space. Already in 2005, the Regional Education Directorate of Lisbon launched a competition that aimed to recover the Nobre Hall of the School of Music and other works. However, the Ministry of Education would never enter the award phase. In 2011 a report by the General Inspection of Education and Science reported: « The building has not yet been subject to retraining, which makes it difficult to practice pedagogically, in particular due to the implementation of the system integrated in basic education ». In 2019, works began. However, they stopped due to a dispute between the contractor and the School Park, having only taken further steps to launch a new competition in November 2020. It is recalled that since 2018 / 2019, music and dance schools have been transferred to other spaces, without the appropriate conditions. A rapid outcome is required to meet the expectations and needs of the school community, which carried out several protests and other actions with students, teachers and other professionals, claiming their urgent rehabilitation. The Greens have intervened in the defence of the requalification of the National Conservatory in various ways, with proposals to add to the PIDDAC ( Central Administration Investment and Development Programme ), interventions and questions at the head of the Assembly of the Republic and the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon, with its elected members. The Greens consider it urgent to re-qualify, value and dignify specialized artistic education by providing music and dance schools with adequate financial, material and human conditions. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u123	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the Portuguese Dance Schools Platform and the more than 6,000 petitioners on a petition which entered on June 4, 2020 — about a year ago — and which, in this sense, has lost some of its relevance, although not its relevance. This is because, like other schools and other activities, dance schools had to close because of the pandemic and this had a direct impact on their students, teachers and, in the case of private schools, liberal professionals and associations, when they lost revenue that would be necessary to meet the costs that were maintained. Therefore, I have already announced that we will follow all the initiatives that recommend to the Government the extension of the ADAPTAR programme, which still needs to be maintained; the agility of existing support so that these schools can be reached as quickly as possible; and an impact assessment of the present situation of dance schools in all their types, whether in articulated, integrated, supplementary, extracurricular, professional or amateur education, whether private, associative or conservative schools. This is because we often debate here, in Parliament, either in plenary or in committee, the importance of dance as a cultural expression, we defend its centrality or complementarity to the training of people according to their choice, but then we often leave the whole sector with many structural weaknesses. It is precisely from the point of view of taking care of the structural weaknesses that we bring to the discussion a project for the requalification of the National Conservatory. in a very brief chronology, I mean: in March 2016, the Minister of Education, Tiago Brandão Rodrigues, who took possession at that time, said and assured, until, the National Conservatory was one of its main priorities, one of the priorities of the government — the government then is also this, in fact— and that the building would suffer recovery works in that same school year—in 2016. In 2018, the headlines of the newspapers said: « Government opens international competition for works in the Conservatory », so knowing that the high priority of 2016 would be realized in that year, which did not happen. In 2019 it was noted that « the works in the Lisbon Conservatory will finally start in May », and in March 2020, in response to a question from the CDS Parliamentary Group on the suspension of works for the rehabilitation of the building, the Cabinet of the Minister guarantee — often used — that these constitute an investment priority of the Ministry of Education which, in this sense, and I quote « develops a long work for its implementation. And I think that 'long' is the key word in this process, because it is indeed what characterizes it, since there are few results. I know that there were many vicissitudes in the process, many of them outside the direct action of the Ministry of Education, but it is still the Ministry of Education who uses words as « priority» and « guarantee», perhaps excused in this process. The saga continues and, in August 2020, it was known that works at the Lisbon National Conservatory would continue to stop until the end of 2020, and so they were, and that students would be transported by bus between the various opposite rooms in Lisbon, with the reopening of the Conservatory planned for 2023. I recall that this was the priority of 2016. However, with the restrictions caused by the pandemic caused by COVID-19, other concerns arose, with space restrictions, with students not having the rooms with the ventilation required by DGS (Direction-General of Health ), and therefore believing that, as stated in the response to the CDS, the Ministry of Education has since 2016 maintained this commitment and the conclusion of the investment within the shortest possible time—that is what that means—the CDS intends to recommend to the Government that it actually take all the necessary measures to complete this process so that students from the artistic school and the National Conservatory can return to their original building and resume their studies under the conditions that their qualifications and also these new times require. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u125	The Bureau recorded Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira's request for intervention from the PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Although apparently dated or exceeded by the course of time, the petition launched by the Dance Schools Platform and the subsequent draft resolutions should deserve our discussion and reflection. Dance schools occupy, in the panorama of our collective life, a kind of none. They're not good, they're good schools, they're not good, they're good culture! This duality does not benefit them at all, before it sends them to a kind of land-of-nobody, where no one knows, no one sends, no one acts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u127	If we add to this unfortunate circumstance the fact that many continue to look at culture, in this case dance, as a fun, an amateur or secondary activity, more related to leisure than to work, we better understand the reasons for forgetting this noble manifestation of art and culture and this necessary aspect of training and education. Why does making profession vocation diminish any professional? Dance can be a lot — curriculum or extracurricular, amateur or professional, hobby or physical activity — but dance schools are clearly spaces where all ages share and communicate this superior form of communication and learning. One thing dance schools aren't, sports activities, and barely walked the government by encompassing dance schools in this sub-area. If culture became orphaned during a pandemic period, dance schools were simply voted for forgetfulness. When it comes to an activity in which, as someone said and quoted, "our work table is the floor we are treading", special consideration is required in order to reconcile the various interests at stake. But what did the government do? Shut up and then see yourself! And it should not be invoked, under the penalty of committing a gross lie, that schools did not want to be part of this reflection and the weighting of possible solutions. Whether publicly in Parliament or through this petition, 500 schools, 5000 professionals, 6000 petitioners only ask to be heard and to share their proposals. How the PSD would like to come to this forum to say that the petition today is meaningless because the government has been — for once — urgent and consequent in this dialogue! But no! Yesterday, like today, schools crossed the pandemic away from 70,000 students and without anyone with responsibilities to make their voices heard. A year ago, it is easy to see that the government ignores what the word "emergency" means. But, beyond urgency, the problems persist and the government does not rush to reflect on the future of dance schools. As for the draft resolutions accompanying this petition, it is necessary to take a position. We agree with a lot, but we don't agree with everything. Since the facilitators exemptions, proposed by the Left Block, far beyond this object, proposed by the PCP, we fear that we may not be able to follow these draft resolutions in all and without reservations. But the object of the draft resolutions cannot merit our disapproval. Having said that, the PSD Parliamentary Group declares total solidarity with the set of concerns and proposals contained in the petition, excommunicated from those which the course of time has become useless, refraining from the projects linked to it. Also and with regard to the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, the object of which recommends the urgent completion of the works of re-qualification of the building of the National Conservatory, where artistic music and dance schools are installed, the PSD Parliamentary Group accompanies this project, either in the explanatory statement or in the recommendations, and we will therefore vote for it. in the same way, we will vote in favour of the excellent draft resolution of the authorship of the ENP on the same subject. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u128	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Sousa has the floor of the PS. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the members of the Dance School Platform, who, with their petition, mobilized several parties to present resolution projects requesting support for the sector. As it is posted on the Platform website: « We have been fighting for 40 years to join the dance sector in Portugal. You had to come up with a virus to get it. Do not keep on seeking. ” The virus has to disappear, but we hope that the Platform will remain, to join the sector, to gather its professionals, to strengthen the dissemination of dance schools, amateurs and professionals, giving them the proper place of prominence while the poles of development and cohesion of local communities, fighting for dance to be a balm, because it is, for the mental and physical health of citizens from 9 to 90 years old. The petition submitted, as well as the draft resolutions, converge on requests for rules and support for the sector. But the sector is different and the impact has not been equally felt by all. It is important to say that specialized artistic schools are the subject of a sponsorship contract with the Ministry of Education, which has continued to ensure the transfer of payments to these schools, regardless of whether they operate in a face-to-face or in another regime. It was the schools outside this network that were more fragile with the compulsive closure. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be mistaken: we will hardly be able to recover everything that we have all lost this past year, but it is up to the State to mitigate the impacts of compulsive closures, and that has been its purpose. The Ministry of Culture had the opportunity to meet with elements of the Platform — yes, Mr. Deputies, the Platform met with the Ministry of Culture, yes, yes! — to debate the difficulties faced by the sector and has advanced with a support framework that will mitigate the impact of the pandemic crisis on the sector and stimulates the gradual resumption of activity. I recall: the Guarantee Culture programme supports, at the bottom, natural persons, informal groups, collective entities, micro-enterprises in the amount of EUR 12 million to cover turnover breaks; financial reinforcement to non-professional cultural entities granted by regional cultural directions; support to self-employed workers in the value of 1 IAS(indicating corporate support); the APOIAR.PT programme, which supports companies in the sector to whom it has decreased by 25 % in turnover in 2020 compared to the previous year, with extraordinary support for the maintenance of the activity in the first quarter of 2021; the APOIAR Rendas programme, which covers six monthly incomes in the fund. In addition, we have support for Layoff, support for the progressive recovery of company turnover, simplified support for microenterprises, extraordinary support for reducing economic activity for self-employed or individual entrepreneurs. These investments are essential for the resumption of activity. These schools play a key role in strengthening cohesion, in the right to use and participation in the country's cultural and artistic life, and are those that enable the birth of new professional talents that feed the cultural industry. Many of them will certainly pass through the National Conservatory of Lisbon in its professionalization process and the Government is working to ensure that the National Conservatory has the physical and structural conditions that the educational community, the professionals of the sector and the culture in Portugal deserve. Obviously, it is easy for the CDS to request urgency in the rehabilitation of the building. The responsibility of the CDS in this matter, as a government, was to remain for the promise. He promised, he promised, and he never did! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] On the contrary, this Government has taken this undertaking as a priority. They shall prove the various investigations carried out in order to carry out them. What we cannot do is to force the civil constructors to submit themselves to the competition or to allow the constructor remaining with the undertaking to subsequently present 90 % deviations from the financial schedule submitted and approved, under the penalty of public interest to be severely injured. We don't do that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u130	And they're doing great! Self-healing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u131	At the urgency and request for the re-qualification of the Conservatory, it should be noted that on 18 March the notice of the invitation to tender was published in the Journal of the Republic of the Republic worth EUR 13 million. We know of the frustration that all this long process has generated in families, students, in the educational community. We know of the logistical difficulty of having to move students to two different spaces to continue to ensure their training. Is this the desired solution? No, it's not, it's possible! It is the transitional solution and we know it causes anxiety to all those involved in the process.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u132	The PS has all his excuses!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u133	The School Park has accompanied the anxieties of the educational community and has maintained constant dialogue with the school's direction in order to share with them the developments of the process, but the stresses and difficulties of the process do not dampen the commitment we have demonstrated in this matter and that the Ministry of Education maintains as a priority. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u134	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the last intervention on this item on the agenda. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Alexandra Vieira of the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I thank you for your comment on our draft resolution. We also thank all the other contributions. We believe that dance schools are a form of culture manifestation and that this culture should be accessible to all people. We believe that dance schools, in all their aspects, multiplicity and diversity, play an important role, not only in terms of physical health but also in terms of mental health, socialization, and this role was already known before the pandemic. Thus, dance schools are also essential at this level and can thus save some expenses to the National Health Service by contributing to the physical and psychological health of people. in this sense, the dance schools of this country, which are at serious risk, should be targeted at special attention that enables them to survive and continue to do this work with people who have some difficulties at this level and want to practice dance. I remember that these schools are scattered a little across the country. In many localities they are the only cultural offer available to their residents and should thus be the focus of attention by the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u136	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded point 3 of the agenda. We move on to point 4, with the assessment of Petition No 127 / XIV / 2. a (Andreia Sofia da Costa Raposo Marques et al.) — Power of choice for parents/educational officers between on-line home education and face-to-face education. To begin this debate, I have the floor of Mrs Mariana Silva of the Green Party. [[Pause.]] This is the record we have here, Mrs. Member. If that's not the case, he'll tell us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u137	Yes, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Start this speech by congratulating the petitioners who have subscribed to the petition « Power of choice to parents/in charge of education between home-on-line education and face-to-face education ». The public school has been living since March 2020 one of the greatest challenges it could face: the great challenge not to abandon children and young people, students, during this difficult phase of the epidemic. We do not tire of welcoming the efforts of school communities, operational assistants, teachers, technicians, education officers, effort that allowed, despite the lack of means, during both confinements, to accompany students, to learn some contents, to keep them linked to the school, despite the isolation, absence and shortage of means that we have appropriately denounced. However, it is unanimous that the school is a space for learning, socialization, living, physical development, discovery and play. The Greens consider that the present classes are essential to the development of children and young people and that the physical, learning and even mental health consequences of the confinement, isolation and fear imposed have not yet been properly identified. It is essential that this evaluation be done, so that schools are strengthened with the professionals so necessary for learning recovery, for support in the most various areas, for monitoring and prevention of mental health, as well as it is also essential that asbestos from schools be removed, protecting school communities from future diseases, and that such urgent works be done in the most various schools throughout the country, to prevent respiratory diseases due to cold, humidity, intense heat. Making schools safe is not a requirement today, it is not just important to prevent the contagion of COVID-19. It is essential that public school be a safe and free space for the healthy growth and development of children and young people, which are, as it is known, the only reason for the existence of school.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u138	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This petition, of which I was rapporteur, entered here in September 2020, having the hearing of petitioners on 2 December. I therefore begin by greeting the first petitioner, Andreia Marques, as well as the more than 4000 subscribers of this petition. At present, this petition has also partly lost its objective, which was that, during the pandemic, parents can opt for the present or online education system, for public health reasons or for pedagogical reasons. I say it has partly lost its objective because, in fact, we are walking towards the end of the school year and we hope that at least to an end without control of the pandemic, so the issue is another way right now. However, and stressing once again that present education is — I think that for everyone — what more and better fulfills the educational and educational role of schools, I believe there are some notes to make on this. The resumption of the present classes, after recent confinement, was assumed with certain conditions that guarantee security. The first was to carry out antigen tests to the educational community, specifically to high school students, in the first week of classes, 14 days later and 28 days later. In most schools, only the first scan of tests and in Lisbon schools, in view of the worsening of cases, is now taking place the second, quite long after the one that was the promised calendar. Therefore, the first safety verification condition has not been performed. The second condition had to do with the vaccination of teachers, who were defined as an autonomous risk group, which gave them a priority, passing on to other people with identified clinical risk, precisely to ensure that classes could continue without interruptions. What is happening, in practice, in many of our schools is that, when a positive case is found in a class, teachers test the PCR ( polymerase chain reaction) on the fifth day, as defined by DGS, and until there are really no classes, i.e., students are left without classes again, which makes us actually wonder why it was the priority in vaccination if, in fact, there are still no classes and students continue to be impaired. Thus, while this is the case, no face-to-face teaching is safe, as far as possible, nor is it done in practice, despite all ads and defenses, with obvious damage to students. With regard to this petition, I would like to leave one last word about the expectations we have about the learning recovery plan that has been announced for today. We sincerely hope that this plan will contain all the necessary means to ensure that, in the context of the autonomy of schools, the recovery of learning will begin sooner than later, in addition to what is already the current work of schools, because also the difficulties and inequalities have worsened beyond what is usually the situation in schools. So we have great hope and we will look very carefully at this plan. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u140	Mr Gabriela Fonseca of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the 4075 petitioners, in the person of the first subscriber, Andreia Marques, for the exercise of his citizenship. Despite being out-of-date, since this petition is reported in September 2020, through which parents and educators ask for permission to opt for online education at that time of pandemic, it raises some questions on which it is worth reflecting. That the present school is a greater well, whether from the point of view of learning, or from the development of skills, the socialization of children and young people, the promotion of health and the physical and mental well-being of them, we all agree. Presenceal education should be the rule because it is best for children and young people at educational, social level, specialized monitoring and, even for children who may be at risk within the family. The problem posed by these parents and teachers is the safety of schools, the health security of their children. Although several times requested information from the Ministry of Education, no one knew or knows how many students and students were infected with SARS-CoV-2, how many and how many were in prophylactic isolation, how many were asymptomatic but capable of contaminating others, how many and how many teachers and assistants were at risk, how many were infected or in prophylactic isolation, or how many classes were also in isolation. This lack of information by the Ministry of Education, together with the application of disparate criteria by local health authorities, caused fears, anxieties and legitimate insecurity in parents. More: The Ministry of Education did not invest as it should in the security conditions for the frequency of present education. The Minister of Education has failed the promised : he has failed the tests, he has failed the computers and the internet network, with which he had committed himself precisely to September, for the beginning of the school year 2020 / 2021. The Minister of Education has failed in the distribution of media, still from webcams to ensure on-line education for students who were at home, computers and in the early strengthening of human resources. The so-called digital school was not provided by the Ministry of Education, and only 60 % of the funds planned for 2020. What resources did each of the schools have at their disposal for the present education and for the follow-up of the students who were at home? Yeah, we don't know either! What is known is that the technological plan happened a few years ago and the equipment remaining from it is obsolete. Almost everything was missing from schools: information, testing, equipment, teachers and auxiliaries, and it was no longer missing because of the abnegate Portuguese autarchs. The territorial asymmetries between large cities and low-density territories, between the coast and the interior became more evident in times of crisis. The OECD report ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) of April 2021 is very clear when it says that Portugal did not take any substantive action to counter the effects of the pandemic on learning and only today, almost at the end of the academic year, will be given to know the plan for recovery of lost learning in pandemic time, much claimed, a plan for 2021 / 2023 and promised for May this year. Always running after damage! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that, even in times of pandemic, the best interests of children must prevail. Today, on 1 June, World Day of the Child, it is worth reviewing the Declaration of the Rights of the Child, adopted by the United Nations on 20 November 1959, as well as the Convention on the Rights of the Children. The Convention on the Rights of the Child in its Article 18. the, says that "parents have the main common responsibility to educate the child and the state should help them exercise this responsibility. The State shall grant appropriate assistance to parents in the education of their children'. I would add that this duty is greater and more pressing in the pandemic context in which we have lived. I end with a phrase from Seneca: « Education requires the greatest care, because it affects all life». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u142	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP welcomes the petitioners. In fact, a wide range of data has been sent, based on what is requested by subscribers, but we must say that the CFP has always defended the centrality of present education in the teaching-learning process and warned, including the fact that the closure of schools in two consecutive school years, in addition to the negative impacts on the school course and on the learning itself, to deepen existing inequalities, to raise problems at the level of socialization of children and young people and to contribute to the degradation of their own mental and physical health. These issues are not theoretical, they are practical and they are possible to see and, on our part, we consider and advocate that the government must intervene on this matter so that the damage does not deepen. These problems were, in fact, the subject of successive interventions by the educational community, the PCP and several other parliamentary groups and were also targeted by successive warnings from the National School of Public Health, which systematically pointed out the impacts on the mental health of the younger population. In this regard, I would like to say that the UN itself (United Nations ) has said that the epidemic exposed and expanded the inequalities already existing in education and that, as always, it was the most vulnerable and marginalized students, appealing this institution to governments to keep schools open and support teachers, increasing investment in education. In fact, I would also like to say that the UN has also pointed out that the closure of schools has caused enormous disruption in the lives of children and young people, affecting their socio-emotional development, their well-being, as well as their social life and their relationships, also showing what we have already observed at the national level, that is, the impact on the mental health of children and young people. The CFP does not devalue, as it is evident, what are legitimate concerns of parents and teachers in relation to their children and educators, but we clearly state that for the CFP there is no alternative to present education, and this is the only one that guarantees the necessary interaction between the student and the teacher in the classroom, a decisive element to ensure the quality of teaching. There is another issue that concerns us: we know that it is not enough to call for possible complementarity or replacement by an online mode, because it is deeply unequal as a child, from young to young, from point of territory to point of territory. Therefore, it does not seem to us that this can be a solution, that is, the possibility of being at the discretion of parents and those in charge of education, because, indeed, there is here a general and system issue that needs to be considered. In our country, the phased resume of the present classes was associated with the achievement of VOCID-19 tests in school, with a relatively low positivity rate, and the PCP believes that the path of vaccination, testing and tracking of contacts should be continued, reinforced and intensified. This is fundamental. For the PCP, the path, in the immediate and in the future, goes through the unequivocal strengthening of the public school, which implies more investment, more workers, more technical and material means, better school park, ensuring all means of cleaning, disinfection and hygiene of spaces, by individual protective equipment for students and workers. A path which points to the reduction of the number of students per class is much needed and is now even more evident; a path to strengthening social action in schools, with the necessary means and the sufficient initiative to ensure all timely support, which, under this circumstance, are added to the worsening economic and social situation. These are the measures that the CFP advocates should be urgently implemented in education. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u144	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we begin by greeting the petitioners. of the petition brought here, we would like to highlight three aspects: first, the role of civil society in public policies of education; second, the concern of so many teachers with the management of school life and the health of their educators, along what has been this health context; third, the current educational model. in a retrospective analysis, we stated again that educational communities have given the example, having quickly adapted to the health context and the requirements that it placed them. This context has brought about strong changes in educational practices, bringing school and family closer together, and in fact finding new formulas and teaching methods, giving impetus to the acquisition of new skills, especially digital ones, even by school communities. As the National Council for Education has said, « families and schools have discovered a connection between themselves, in many cases neglected so far». In fact, this experience has approached both sides, which cannot always be found, and it was possible to build new bridges, which, of course, was a positive aspect that we would like to highlight. But we also know that it brought visibility to many of the already known weaknesses and revealed some that were well hidden. As in all crises, it has increased the gap of inequalities and students who have had the most difficulties will now have to have more resources and more support. From the outset, it is essential to ensure the overall well-being of students, learning cannot be done without trust or without motivation. It is therefore necessary for public education policies to integrate into their guidelines measures related to emotional and psychological dimensions, which are fundamental to the process of learning and socialization and which will be even more important in this post-health crisis scenario. In an attempt to quickly recover learning, the Ministry of Education cannot set goals to which only a few will reach. Not everyone will have the same pace and this must be adapted to the idiosyncrasies and needs of each student. If the focus is only on recovering goals and programs, the process will be speeded up and unfair. This is the real challenge for the Ministry of Education. The educational policies adopted today will dictate the future of our children and young people. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the day on which the Children's Day is celebrated and also the day on which the Ministry of Education presents its plan for learning recovery, we hope, indeed, that this is the day on which the Government is truly committed to each of our children.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u146	The next intervention will be the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mrs Alexandra Vieira has the floor to that effect. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Block on the Left welcomes the petitioners of the initiative « Power of choice for parents/in charge of education between on-line and face-to-face education» for the issues it raises. In extraordinary and unpublished situations, educational communities, in which parents and education officers are included, cannot react on the basis of panic and claim the opening of precedents only possible for a group of families much smaller than it was thought. What the pandemic crisis and the confinements have shown was that most families do not have the conditions to choose between home or face-to-face education, in the context of pandemics, for various reasons: living conditions, lack of computer equipment, difficulty in accessing the Internet, difficulty in accompanying, even if they want, learning tasks, especially among younger children, by the fact that adults or adults, in single-parent families, are also in telework, or by the fact that, from the beginning, many families have experienced many economic difficulties, among others, such as the fact that they are families in the different front lines of life, they are health professionals, cleaning, education, distribution or safety. It is true that there was, and there is, very little knowledge about the degree of transmission of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The panic is justifiable and understandable, but, for the sake of truth, the panic is more understandable on the part of all those who had to be in the front line, particularly on the part of people who work at school, aware of the risks and high transmissibility. Still, teachers and teachers and all the people who work in schools resisted, ensuring schools open to the children of the professionals of the different front lines, during both confinements, with a lack of generalized conditions, as we all know, and by being aware of what is best for their students and students. If there is evidence that cannot be denied and made visible by the pandemic, social and economic crisis, it is the importance of present education, for whatever it implies. We cannot be deceived: there was no distance teaching, there was, yes, non-experimental emergency teaching, with rapid and possible adequacy of learning activities to virtual environments and a television channel. The truth is that all school workers knew the risks they were facing and that concerns them. The truth is that they have often been without precise guidelines and without the possibility of maintaining distance. The truth is, protection equipment and computer equipment are missing. The truth is that testing took time to reach the adults of the educational community. The truth is, it took time to include teachers in risk groups. The truth is that it is present that learning takes place. But, in our view, none of this can open the precedent of giving parents and those in charge of education the possibility of choosing to attend school or at home. We must not at this point confuse home education, which, in the view of the Left Block, may have some virtualities, especially when it corresponds to choices of alternative ways of life, more community, more ecological, less urban and more sustainable. We learn more about the pandemic crisis and this is always the worst way to learn, because it was an emergency response learning for something totally unknown and at very high risk, including life. But it was not about present education, it was an opportunity to learn to live in community, in solidarity, with empathy for each other, calling responsibility for each and every one and the collective. But we learn without anesthesia or hot sandwiches that public school is more than the place where it is learned, it is also the place where inequalities break down. It should be where they dilute, but it's not yet. No one had any idea how the degree of use, acquisition of computer equipment and access via the Internet was still so limited by many Portuguese families. We learned the social role of the school in mitigating social weaknesses. We learn that it is in school that students and students should be with special or specific needs. We learn that the problems of school are so old and structural: large classes, staff management not always safe and often authoritarian in the application of DGS directives; there are lack of spaces, lack of rooms, lack of buildings, lack of teachers, lack of technicians, lack of operational assistants. Finally, we all learn to respect, once and for all, public school and, above all, to respect seriously the people who work in it, for dedication, determination and courage before the Ministry of Education who have downloaded in a non-existent autonomy of schools, more specifically in its directors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u149	I'm done now, Mr. President. He said that the Ministry of Education has downloaded into a non-existent autonomy of schools, more specifically in its directors, the responsibility to address all the problems that the pressure raises. However — and I shall finish, Mr President — these are problems that are solved at school and with whom it lives, through the union structures of workers, in dialogue with the Ministry of Education and its educational specialists, with all members of the educational community, including parents. We therefore have hope in the kindness that often occurs in the storms, in the opening up of the Ministry of Education to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u150	We have come to what I am supposed to be the last intervention on this agenda item, which is up to the Socialist Party, through Mrs Maria Joaquina Matos. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming Mr Andreia Raposo Marques and others, some 4000 citizens, who in September 2020 delivered the petition in the Assembly of the Republic on, and I quote, the "Power of choice for parents and education officers between home-based education and face-to-face education", expressing their concerns about the conditions in which the school year 2020 - 2021 would begin in such an unpredictable and difficult context, resulting from the pandemic, which has challenged all the pillars of society's organization that still faces an unparalleled situation in recent history. It was therefore legitimate to concern parents and teachers. The legislative framework, particularly on the area of education, has not been set up to provide standards for the challenges caused by the pandemic. But education responded promptly, mobilized to adapt to the demanding new context, fulfilling the mission assigned to it in the Basics Law of the Educational System, Law No. 46 / 86 of October 14, in its current essay. By Resolution No 53 / 2020 of the Council of Ministers, the Government has established temporary and exceptional measures for the organisation of the school year, defining guiding principles, which I would like to highlight. They are the affirmation of the present regime as a rule, but only as an alternative, the resource of non-presental or mixed teaching, in spot situations of detection of COVID-19, with the consequent isolation of students, teachers and other employees; the strengthening of mechanisms of promotion of equity and equality, designing specific responses, which mitigate inequalities, with a view to all students reaching the skills provided for by the student profile, at the exit of compulsory education. The return to classes involved particularly demanding preparatory work for the entire community and was in dialogue with the representatives of the schools, teachers, parents and teachers in charge of education and the authorities, which schools were equipped with materials and equipment to protect the good health conditions, spaces and school participants. There were significant measures to strengthen human resources, in the most diverse areas, of which I stress: the hiring of more than 3300 teachers to strengthen school credit and tutoring, an important measure in preventing early school dropout; the effective hiring of 5000 operational assistants and technical assistants; the revision of the relationship portal, in accordance with the State Budget Act of 2021, and the hiring of 900 specialized technicians to strengthen the well-being of students on their return to school. It was a great investment that revealed the strategy of strengthening public school. In recent March, in the return to face-to-face education, the testing program was extended to combat the pandemic and a vaccination campaign was initiated for all teaching and non-teaching staff, who have gone through with all normality. The creation of a working group, consisting of specialists in the area of education, was carried out in order to collect suggestions and ideas for the Learning Recovery and Consolidation Program, which, we all know, were affected by the impact of the pandemic, presenting proposals for curricular, pedagogical and organizational solutions, which was presented today. It tells the people that for "great evils, great remedies". And, in fact, if they have been great bad, they have been even more the remedies that have been and are being built, ensuring security and confidence in the functioning of public school. It is in this context that the petition submitted, « A power of choice for parents and education officers between home-on-line and face-to-face education», would imply the operation of activities simultaneously and an express refusal of the domestic mode of education—I remember that its realization would involve overcoming issues of an organizational, pedagogical and technological nature. I end by recalling the value of the role played by the school in the protection and surveillance of children, in contributing to the satisfaction of their basic needs of living and socialization and, above all, in the contribution to greater equality and social cohesion. The priority of the school should be given to the presence modality, as a guarantee of higher quality, more equitable and more inclusive education. Nothing replaces the teacher and his classroom. And speaking of equitable and inclusive school, the school for all, I remember, to welcome today's marked date, the World Day of Children, officially established in 1950, following the Congress of the International Democratic Federation of Women, with the aim of raising awareness of the world for children's rights and the need to promote an improvement of their living conditions, to ensure their development. I end by quoting Person: « Great is poetry, goodness and dance... / But the best in the world are children». Our vote is that each child is the best in anyone's world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u152	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am not going to quote Fernando Pessoa, but I am going to quote Mrs Deputy of the Socialist Party, who said that "for great evils, great remedies" and "if there is anything we have done is to apply and develop great remedies". The phrase would not be funny if we were not in the country where computers were not found, invested, applied on time. The phrase would not be funny if we were not the country in which the teachers' testing was delayed and that of the assistants had not yet been carried out. This is the country where a member of the party that supports the government says that, for great harm, the Socialist Party has great remedies. This in the debate of a petition that seeks the form of on-line teaching as a substitute for present education, as an option. Even admitting what the studies have said, that online education is a weak substitute for present education, who thinks that he could bring to an Assembly dominated by the weight of the Socialist Party anything called "power of choice", does not know this Socialist Party. In fact, this is the same Socialist Party that prevented private schools from having on-line education. How would I now allow the whole country to have on-line education? Oh, my God! It is the same Socialist Party that prevented private school teachers from continuing their work, imposing, due to their insufficiency and inefficiencies, the rules that it imposed on public school. How could we have option power with the Socialist Party? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u154	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u155	I shall conclude, Mr President. We can discuss whether or not on-line education is an appropriate substitute for present education. What we should have done, because winter will come as fast as the night approaches the day, it was an investment in education technologies, because the Socialist Party is too late in its realization.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u156	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are thus finishing the fourth point on our agenda this afternoon and moving to the fifth point for the consideration of Petition No 87 / XIV / 1. a ( Hugo Alexandre Trindade et al.) — Replacement of the parish of the Lady of Time and replacement of the parish of São Mamede de Infesta. To begin the debate, you have the floor of Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by thanking the more than 4000 petitioners of São Mamede de Infesta and also the Lady of Time who bring us here this afternoon the question that has touched and touched so many other territories: the breakdown of the fragesias that have been added to the rule and framework. I also want to congratulate this movement, and so many others, because this struggle has finally produced results. In Matosinhos, in the district of Porto, the frequiesias we address today well show the problems we talk about when we say that this change, made administratively, was wrong and penalized thousands of citizens. Only in these two parishes, Madam of the Time and St. Mamede of Infesta, added, are we talking about some 50,000 inhabitants. Many councils do not even have this dimension, but Miguel Relvas, imbued with the cuts and reductions of the government of the troika, found it well, at the same time, to join several parishes without any criterion, totally to the map, and also these two. To remember, he extinguished 1168 fregueses, in the greatest attack that, in democracy, was made to the local power of greater proximity. Finally, and as a result of the pressure of the populations of the territories that have not complied with it, we have recently again discussed a draft law for the creation of fragesias and, precisely today, the final text which will follow for promulgation by Mr President of the Republic has been approved. This, yes, is a victory, and it is a victory that responds to this petition. And I explain why. The Socialist Party has included in its programme since 2015 the proposal for a reversal of the law and proposed that it take place before the 2017 elections. But no! With the more or less invisible hands of the PSD, they preferred to decentralize competences rather than assign autonomy of organization. It will not have been due to lack of population mobilization or time for deepening. The municipalisation of competences and the election of the presidents of the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees), for example, was carried out in a couple of months. The reversal of the parish has taken more than five years. It was a clear political option, the PS and the PSD, and we will not have this process finished for the 2021 authorities. It was not the insistence of the Bloc and other parties and it would not even be enshrined a simplified process for the disaggregation and recovery of freguesis. Yes, in the case of the repeal of the Relvas law, it is not about creating new frequencies, but about returning something that the people have never accepted for them to be withdrawn and why they have always fought for in the last eight years: to regain their identity, or to return to their own parish. This process, resumed late, is sin because it does not allow a faster procedure, but it finally allows for the breakdown and creation of phregies like these, those of Lady of the Hour and St. Mother of Infesta. They will be able to exist again, feed their diversity and identity and ensure people's close support and will also be able to do so in a more participatory and transparent way. The case we are discussing here is an example in which elected representatives agree, but, in cases where they are not, the Left Block has managed to write that the populations can depolicate the process. And this too was another victory. This must be, yes, a process that reaches people. The proximity, democracy and participation require this and this petition that we are discussing here is a prime example of this requirement, the need for this and the urgency of reversing. That is the only way we have built a democracy, in fact, participatory. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u158	You now have the floor on behalf of the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would begin by greeting the petitioners, in the person of his first petitioner, Hugo Alexandre Trindade. This petition, as well as many others, contributed to the process that was recently developed in the field of specialty, but, of course, I would like to say a few words, in particular, to the people of São Mamede de Infesta and the Lady of the Hour. For those who know St. Mamede of Infesta, we are, of course, speaking of a very own economic, social, cultural and sporting fabric that differs from the reality of the Lady of Time. Being Freguess with points of contact, they represent different realities and with more demographics, particularly in the case of the Lady of Time. With the one that was the administrative reorganization, we are talking about having gathered in a single parish more than 50 000 citizens and citizens. Now, it becomes completely impossible for a team of autoarchs to give responses of proximity, as is intended of local power, to such a large number of people. In addition, we must not forget that this process, dating back to 2013, which became known as a ruler and a framework, has completely frustrated the concept of identity of frequesia, has thwarted the logic of neighbouring relations and, as I have already mentioned, the policies of proximity. Fortunately, the way to the reversal of this error is open, with the new law of the parish. In the process of specialty, the NAP marked its presence and sought to contribute to ensure a law more capable of defending the interests of the people. The Madam of Time and St Mamede of Infesta will not need to resort to the exceptional regime provided for in the new law since they clearly meet all the general conditions for becoming autonomous, even the easiest to verify, such as the history and cultural identity or the provision of services to the population, and even the most demanding, such as those associated with the efficiency of public management. Therefore, it remains to be hoped that, if the new Frequencies Act comes into force, the Assembly of the Union of Frequencies of São Mamede de Infesta and Madam of Time will start the process of disaggregating the two Frequencies, so that Parliament can also contribute to reversing this mistake made in 2013. Today, as on the day we meet with the petitioners, the NAP leaves its full commitment to this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u160	We now turn to the intervention of the PS Parliamentary Group and will use the floor of Mrs Palmira Maciel. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by welcoming the democratic capacity that citizens have to echo, in this House of the Republic, matters that seem to have a more local incidence, but which, in the present case, enabled the association of more than 4000 people to show their disapproval by the aggregation of their frequencies. I therefore greet the subscribers of the petition on the « replacement of the parish of the Lady of Time and the replacement of the parish of São Mamede de Infesta », of which Mr Hugo Alexandre Trindade is first subscriber. The law did not respect, did not hear and did not value the interests of the populations, being implemented in a hurry, in an authoritarian attitude, thus contributing to numerous cases identical to what is now portrayed here. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the petitioners are asking for the replacement of both fregueses (Mother of Time and São Mamede de Infesta ), alleging territorial issues, pointing out the difference in sociocultural reality, customs and customs, heritage, sporting associativeism, which, without disdaining one or another but in parallel and with everything that distinguishes them and distinguishes their people, can even contribute to enriching greater national diversity. They also allege the possible loss of efficiency of the services provided to the population by the local authorities, which may have difficulty giving feasible answers to a territory that they say extensive and so different, since, with the administrative reorganization, the Fragelia da Hora added the parish of São Mamede de Infesta, moving to a bridge with more than 50 000 citizens. Therefore, according to the Movement for the St. Mamede of Infesta Fregue and the Movement for the Lady of Time, « not always the union makes the strength». Ladies and gentlemen. Members : These facts show us - the loss of proximity government, the loss of identity, the lack of representativeness, the reduction of civic participation, the increase of difficulties or less efficiency in the management of resources that the aggregation process brought. The legal device then approved, without well-defined criteria and without consultation binding to the population, had profound negative consequences for the populations and, I would like to stress, called into question the proximity that characterizes this level of local power. We are well aware that the local authorities, particularly the parish, are the first door open to the people and what their importance is in the service that is provided every day. Clearly, it is the work they have carried out in the context of pandemic as first aid to citizens and in collaboration with other entities with direct responsibility in this fight. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the right time, the Socialist Party took on the commitment to, at the first opportunity, promote the correction of this law and evaluate the territorial reorganization. And it was in the sense of fulfilling this commitment with the Portuguese that much worked, together with the other parties, based on the conclusions of the report presented by the Technical Group for the definition of criteria for the evaluation of the reorganization of the territory of the Freguesias, which comes from a work developed in partnership with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the National Association of Freguesias. After much work, many hearings, much debate, fortunately, the law has been approved and all situations such as those that come to us today because of this petition can and should be reconsidered and, if so, reverted. Despite the fairness of the content of the petition and our opinion being coincidentally, the new law has not yet been published, and therefore it has not yet produced effects, and it is, at this time, a normative impediment that determines that petitioners can only see their concerns addressed after the new regulatory framework comes into force. in this sense, and taking into account the premises of the new law, namely how to depolate the process, we appeal to the petitioners to bring together the will expressed in this petition for the initiative of citizens provided for in the new law, thus giving a formal body to a process that can, in the end, allow such desired breakdown. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party recognises the importance of the service that is provided to the people and of the development promoted by the councils and assemblies of parish, and will do everything in order to achieve a fair and participatory administrative reorganization. in this sense, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, in addition to solidarity with this cause, will be committed to finding, within the regulatory framework, the possibility of achieving this objective. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u162	Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are to greet the thousands of subscribers on behalf of the Greens of the petition we are now discussing, which seeks the replacement of the parish of São Mamede de Infesta and the parish of the Lady of Time. In anticipation, I would like to say that the Greens follow the concerns and objectives expressed in this petition, which seeks to remove the injustice that has been created with the aggregation of these frequencies. In fact, the parish of São Mamede de Infesta and the parish of Mamede da Hora were added to this reform, promoted by the PSD and the CDS-PP, which, in a seat, extinguished hundreds and hundreds of parishes throughout the country, even if their local bodies had opposed the consultation process that took place in the context of this reform. As the petitioners point out, the territory of the ancient Board of Freguesia of São Mamede de Infesta circumscribes a unique and unrepeatable sociocultural reality, a vast heritage cherished by many generations, who, over the centuries, have been working their common destiny, producing art, ways of speaking and dressing, uses and customs that distinguish their people from any other sociological reality. On the other hand, with the administrative reorganization, the Lady of the Hour's parish added the parish of São Mamede de Infesta, thus bringing together in a single union of parish more than 50 000 citizens, making, in the perspective of the petitioners, truly impossible for any team of local autarches to give feasible responses to a spot of territory with so many populations. We fully accompany the petitioners in their claim to see answers to the parish of São Mamede de Infesta and the parish of the Lady of the Hour, as, moreover, we defend the replacement of all extinct parish whose organs have pronounced themselves against this extinction. In addition, we believe that even those few who have obtained a favorable view of aggregation can, over these years, reassess their decision, depending on the disadvantages or advantages that the aggregation has brought to their populations. It was, moreover, the meaning of our proposal that the PSD and PS rejected, in order to cook a solution between them, as a central block, which prevents the replacement of many frequencies, even if their organs and their populations so claim.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u164	You now have the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I begin by welcoming the subscribers of the petition for the replacement of the Lady of Time and of the parish of São Mamede de Infesta, naturally accompanying the assumptions of this same petition, which, in fact, translate into the intervention which the CFP has had on this matter. After eight years since the extinction of the parish, there are populations and municipalities that continue not to see themselves on the current map of the parish and who struggle for the replacement of their parish, as is the case with the populations of Lady of the Hour and of St Mamede of Infesta. Even with the diploma that has been approved, even if these two frequencies can be restored, the fact is that the populations of São Mamede de Infesta and Madame de la Hora will have to wait a few more years to have their parish back, which would not have happened, if the proposal that the CFP brought the discussion had been approved,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u166	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u167	... I rest the parish according to the will of the people and according to the decision of the local bodies. [[PCP applause.]] This was rejected and denied to the populations of the Lady of the Hour and of St Mamede of Infesta that they had their ferries back sooner! This legislative initiative was the solution to establish the procedure and the deadlines that allowed the replacement of the parish, according to the will of the people, and this is the central element in this discussion. With the rejection of this bill that the PCP brought the vote, the opportunity was lost to restore the parish in time, including, the next electoral act for the authorities, which takes place this year. The diploma that has been approved, however, does not effectively respond to demands for the replacement of the populations, where this is their will, because the PS, the PSD, the NAP and the Liberal Initiative have chosen to define a set of restrictive criteria that prevent many of the frequencies in our country from being effectively restored, according to the will of their populations. We remember that, at the beginning of the discussion of the various legislative initiatives, the CFP stated that we were facing two different issues. One was the discussion on the definition of criteria for the creation of new frequencies, i.e., frequencies that did not exist in the past, since currently there is no legislation for this, because the PSD / CDS government, when it liquidated the frequencies that it liquidated, also revoked the legislation that determined the criteria for the creation of fringes. This was something that should be addressed. Another subject that should also be treated with due relevance, i.e. the other distinct matter was the creation of an exceptional transitional regime to restore the frequencies, according to the will of the populations and the authorities. in this transitional regime, the central element should be respect for the position of the populations and local organs of these same frequencies. at this time, with the diploma that is approved, many are the parish in our country that will not be returned to their populations, even with the people willing to have their parish back. We recall that in all the legislative process that took place, the successive delays of the Government in the delivery of the proposal to the Assembly of the Republic, the delay in the normal progress of the work in the committee responsible and the rejection of the proposal of the CFP...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u168	That's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u169	... had consequences, because they made it impossible to replace the parish in 2021. If in 2017 this would have been possible — as the CFP proposed — it would have been possible, in 2021, to return the strawberries to all the populations who wanted their ferries back. The PCP, honoring the commitments made with the populations, proposed solutions and beat up until the last minute, not wasting any possibility that all populations who wanted their extinct ferries could effectively have them back. The PS, the PSD, the CDS, the Liberal Initiative, the Arrival and the NAP prevented that solution. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u170	The next intervention is the PSD, with the floor of Mr José Cancela Moura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We appreciate a petition that, symbolically, represents the will of thousands of citizens, who, over the past eight years, in exercising their citizenship rights, have defended with conviction a sense of belonging and genuinely demand the restoration of their collective identity. in this case, we speak of the citizens of Lady of Time and of St Mamede of Infesta, in Matosinhos. It's laudable and worthy. But in the name of the truth, it is of course important to say that there was only administrative reform, because the extinction of parishioners was always a wish of the governments of the Socialist Party. Let's go to the facts: 10 years ago, the state secretary of the authorities José Junqueiro announced the purpose of extinguishing all the parish with less than 1500 voters. Almost half! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u172	Hey! Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u173	And the PSD hits!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u174	Long before, in 2005, Antonio Costa, then Minister of State and Internal Administration, there was already a lawyer for the extinction of the parish with less than 1000 voters. The Minister Pedro da Silva Pereira — again the Government of Socrates — declared, before the Memorandum of Understanding, that the PS's intention was to end two thirds of the parish. The reform was carried out with external intervention, in a state of national emergency. It was in the time imposed by PS and not in the time chosen by PSD. But despite the facts, the PS chose the PSD as a scapegoat and promised the country to reverse the aggregation of strawberries. But make it late and late. After two failed attempts by Minister Cabrite, Antonio Costa protruded to exhaustion and handed over the diploma at the end of last year, six long years after the promise, knowing well that it was objectively impossible to discuss and approve this law in good time. Therefore, there is no new parishioners in the upcoming municipal elections, because the PS failed to speak because the PS did not want to. But there are also no new frequencies because of the PCP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u175	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u176	... above all because of the demagogy with which he participated in the debate, because he presented a bill to withdraw political gains, because he made a request to precipitate the vote of the law, without hearing of external entities, and because, in a complete lack of loyalty, in the middle of the discussion, he required the vote of the project itself in plenary, to make another number. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] The PCP fed these floral games and then wanted to force the country to enter electoral mode for four years, making each board an electoral commission! [[PCP protests.]] As he always does, the PCP proposes to reverse all ferries, give everything to everyone, as usual. [[PCP protests.]] But this time, they were wrong. They were victims of their own narrative. Whether the PCP, either the Left Block, had six years and so many other opportunities for, within the merceries of management,... [[Protests by PCP MP Diana Ferreira.]] ... do with the disaggregation of parishes what they did with the reversal of the privatisation of TAP (Portuguese Air Transport ) or with the reduction of public service hours. In this case, it is said of my land: "For him that is not ashamed, all the world is his. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests of PS Members.]] And the Bloc has also gone very badly—I don't know why it claims victory in this process—because it proposes a local referendum to disaggregate parishes could only be the idea of a party without autarchic implementation, which does not value the proximity policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u177	That's all not to condemn him!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u178	A referendum in this case would be impracticable and manifestly unnecessary, firstly because the political will of the peoples emanates from the legitimately elected bodies, in particular the assemblies of the parish, and, secondly, because there would be no constitutional court to arrive at more than 4000 questions of the assemblies of the parish that do not exist. PSD is a local power party... [[Rice from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ...and trust all the unexcepted autarchs, including those of the Left Block, PCP or PS, who will have all the legitimacy to decide on the breakdown.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u179	After all, it was anecdotal!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u180	It was on behalf of these autarchs, including me, that we honour the commitment, without prejudice, without tibiass, to participate in the revision of this reform that the PS imposed and that the PSD was obliged to implement. of our contributions, fully welcomed, I highlight three essential changes that leave our brand and that have significantly improved the diploma. One of them is the creation of a transitional regime that will allow the disaggregation of parishes to take place in conditions equal to those that occurred in the aggregation...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u181	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u182	Only one more minute, Mr President, to conclude the reasoning. [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u183	One more minute cannot be, Mr. I'm sorry, but it can't be!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u184	The second amendment makes it impossible for junta presidents, aggregated or disaggregated, to be able to benefit from a new deadline count, to moralize the system, and the third amendment enables citizens to be able to request the breakdown of fregetes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u185	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u186	In conclusion, we have to say that the PSD is aware of the duty. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u187	Mr Cecilia Meireles from the CDS now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would first of all like to congratulate the petitioners, who bring us a petition to reverse the Union of Fregues of St. Mamede de Infesta and Madam of the Hour, which, as we all know, was done in the last reform of the parish. I believe that, as far as the results are concerned, they are already more or less established, because, by the hand of the central block, PS and PSD, the reform of the parish has already been reversed. Therefore, what is natural is that these frequencies that wish to return to their initial condition can do so. But I would like to make my opinion clear, because what I understand from this debate is that there will be autarchics and there is a great deal of willingness to start hunting for the vote. It is worth asking us to serve the parish and what is its purpose. It is that many here have spoken of the reform of the parish, all to attack it, including the party that was one of its co-authors.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u189	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u190	But no one here wondered why the reform of the parish was never completed. This is because the reform of the parish presupposed the creation of a scale and assumed more competence for the parish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u192	The PS, who immediately wanted to reverse this, surprisingly with the support of the PSD, boycotted this reform of the parish. And that's how we're going to get strawberries again that allow the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in each of these places, I make great speeches, but that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't serve the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u194	As long as we are not able to discuss decentralization, realizing that the means have to leave the central state and move to the chambers and chambers for the parish, and that without that it is not worth being forming bodies that are little more than shops of the citizen and that they do not provide the service that they have to provide to the people, while there is no ability to discuss this subject at the front, what we are going to be discussing is the creation of political positions at the level of the parish and simply not to solve the problem of the population. And that is what it is regrettable that has happened in this reform. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u195	At this point and for a relatively short time, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Cancela Moura, in fact, this was a very interesting number. The honourable Member is right: for those who are not ashamed, everyone is yours.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u197	It's all of you!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u198	So let's go to the facts, Mr. The PSD has extinguished more than 1,000 fries all over the country...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u199	But why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u200	... and not even those whose autarchic organs gave a negative opinion escaped the aggregating fury of the PSD, not even those,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u201	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u202	...because even those were extinct. And now we have heard Mr Cancela Moura say that the blame is for everyone but the PSD! Mr President, you are right: for those who are not ashamed, everyone is yours! [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u203	We have thus concluded this item on the agenda. We move on to point 6, with the appreciation of Petition No 110 / XIV / 1. a ( APDASC - Portuguese Association for the Development of Sociocultural Animation ) — Professional Status of the career of sociocultural animator, together with, in general, of the Bill No 649 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recognizes and regulates the professional status of socio-cultural animation and draft resolution No 1308 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the recognition and regulation of the profession of sociocultural animator. A delegation of the petitioners and the petitioners, to whom the Bureau greets, is present in the galleries. We're going into this debate as soon as the ladies and gentlemen. Members can take their places properly. To begin with, you have the floor to present your legislative initiative, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the representatives of the petitioners who are here today to attend this debate. And I wanted to say that, in schools and municipalities, in projects of local development and community intervention, in hospitals and museums, in cultural associations and residential structures for the elderly, in day centres or in centres of occupational activities for children with disabilities, in centers of leisure activities or in schools, in social activities, tourism, education, in institutions or in public spaces, in the public sector and in the private sector, are multiple contexts in which the animators and sociocultural animators intervene. In fact, the sociocultural animation arose in Portugal in the 70s of the 20th century and the revolution of 25 April 1974 gave a boost and created a moment of expansion and consolidation of initiatives that were born from popular education, community intervention, militant involvement. Since then, and in the following years, there has been a professionalization of sociocultural animators and animators, especially in the associative movement and the cooperative movement. At the end of the 80s of the last century, technical-professional courses emerged and the first course of socio-cultural animation was also created in higher education, in the cooperative Árvore, in Porto. In the next decade, especially in polytechnic higher education, the animation courses were multiplied with degree of baccalaureate and degree of undergraduate. And at present, virtually all institutions of polytechnic higher education have courses of sociocultural animation, which form professionals who perform relevant functions in all kinds of contexts. Sociocultural animation has this root in community intervention and is today an instrument for the involvement and mobilization of populations and interdisciplinary development of individuals and groups, with the aim of certainly awakening in them their own capacities, supporting and organizing their initiative, valuing and putting into action their potential. It is only that, as in other areas, a growing requirement in terms of qualification and reflectivity has not corresponded to an equivalent labour and wage valuation of animators and animators. That is certainly why the Portuguese Association for the Development of Sociocultural Animation, APDASC, decided to launch this process and bring to this Parliament the requirement, in the form of a petition with more than 4000 subscribers — which I welcome again — of a working environment, of a socio-professional status. The objectives of the petition are basically the same as the bill of the Left Block, which today is discussed in conjunction with the request of the APDASC and which will be voted in this House tomorrow. It is, in essence, to put an end to the injustice that the professionals and the professionals of sociocultural animation in Portugal, clarifying their role, ensuring the recognition of their functions in all labour contexts, combating precariousness and wage devaluation. Of course, some will say that it would not necessarily have to be Parliament setting such rules, but if others do not, we do not allay the possibility, capacity and responsibility that is also ours. In fact, we will not be taking an unprecedented step with the approval of this statute. Parliament, this Parliament, took exactly the same step in June 2019, without any votes against, regarding the professional status of criminologists. This is also our expectation with regard to this project that we are bringing the debate today, that it may be approved, that it will come down to discussion in the committee speciality, that it will be improved, corrected, worked with the contribution of all parliamentary groups, that it will be a realization of Parliament and also a tribute to the work of the socio-cultural animators and animators. We therefore wish and, with this spirit of openness, we appeal to the other parliamentary groups that are working with us in this process. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u205	In order to present the legislative initiative of your parliamentary group, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor on behalf of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u206	Mr. President and Mr. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the more than 4300 subscribers of this petition, as well as the APDASC, the Portuguese Association for the Development of Sociocultural Animation, which has stimulated this petition, and also to greet the sociocultural animators, for their work with children, young people, the elderly, people with disabilities and with many social groups, namely groups and populations at risk or in situations of social fragility. It is a work of great Community importance in the institutions and also in the communities in which they enter and that the non-valorization of their profession puts at stake. The workers who perform these functions, the sociocultural animators, live a reality of devaluation of their profession, due to the non-recognition, the non-recognition of their activity, being confronted with situations of precariousness, instability, low wages, which is, of course, a profound injustice for these workers and their families, which are affected by the degraded working conditions that these professionals live daily. But this can also bring consequences to the work itself developed with the various social groups with which sociocultural animators intervene. We speak of public sector workers — many in schools, but not only — and of the private sector, particularly in the social sector, in IPSS, who, working with different publics and drawing interventions aimed at the realities and specificities identified, do not have due appreciation. The effective non-recognition of your profession means that you do not have prospects for career progression and evolution, wage valorization, valuefulness of experience and knowledge acquired with the performance of your functions, nor have prospects for stability in your lives so that you can build a personal and family life project. This instability is also generated by the fact that in many situations sociocultural animators have their work defined by projects. They jump from project to project and their salary lasts as long as the project lasts, when, in practice, their functions and their performance have continuity over time. The work done and the intervention they do in the institutions and communities were needed yesterday, are needed today and will also be needed within a month, within a year. This stability must also be guaranteed. This is a problem which the CFP points out that it is important to resolve, in particular through the stability of the links between these workers and the stability of the various interventions that are guaranteed by socio-cultural animators. We understand that the Government has a primary responsibility, of which it cannot be ruled out, for the recognition of the profession of socio-cultural animation, its regulation and the definition of a set of elements of access, as well as for the recognition and valorization of all workers who perform it, in particular through the stability of the bond and its wage value, and all these and other elements must be deferred with the involvement of workers' representative organisations. This is exactly what we propose, that, within 60 days, the Government should take the necessary measures for the recognition and appreciation of the profession of socio-cultural animator, in conjunction with the representative organisations of the workers, and that, among other aspects, the professional content of the profession should be considered, the conditions for access to the career of socio-cultural animator — including the dimensions of training appropriate to the exercise of defined functions — the definition of career and conditions for the exercise of the activity and the definition of progressions and associated remuneration, without prejudice, of, of course, to provisions that may be defined in collective labour regulatory instruments. It is with the aim of contributing to solve the problem of the sense of socio-cultural animators that the CFP presents this initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u207	We are now moving on to the most general debate. Mr Pedro Morais Soares, from the CDS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u208	Mr. President and Mr. Members : I leave a special compliment to the Portuguese Association for the Development of Sociocultural Animation and the 4372 petitioners, doing so in the person first petitioner, the President of the Association, Dr. Isabel Filipe. In summary, the petitioners request that the professional status of the career of sociocultural animator be discussed in the Assembly of the Republic and approved in the Diário da República. I'd like to highlight it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that sociocultural animation is an activity of greatest relevance. We could highlight all the references and the meaning it has for UNESCO ( the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ), but I would like to highlight the determining role that sociocultural animators have played in supporting social institutions and the most disadvantaged populations, especially the elderly. These professionals should have a very important role to play, not only now, but they will have - in the future - in the set of policies to combat loneliness, in the promotion of policies for active ageing programmes, i.e. to have a very significant presence among social institutions, day centres, living centers and former spaces. Since 1st. the National Congress of Sociocultural Animation that the Association proposes a professional status of the sociocultural animator as well as the need for its professionalization. So, we're not talking about something new, we're talking about a claim that's already coming with more than a decade and I wanted to leave this reference. from there the CDS is not insensitive to the arguments submitted by the Association either in the petition or in the hearing. However, we have Decree-Law No 37 / 2015, which establishes the system of access and exercise of professions and professional activities and which states that the exercise of a profession or professional activity may be subject to the verification of a set or some professional requirements. It also adds that it is up to the Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations to permanently monitor the arrangements for access to the exercise of professions or professional activities. It also refers to the Directorate-General for Higher Education to ensure the articulation of access and exercise schemes or professional activities with the higher education system. in this respect, the capacity which the Assembly of the Republic has to accept the claims of the petitioners is partly limited by law. The Committee on Labour and Social Security therefore requested information on the content of the petition to the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security and, in particular, to the Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations on 15 September 2020. Indeed, it is regrettable that over eight months the Government has not provided any information to Parliament. The Government has not responded to Parliament and has not, since 2019, responded to this association, which is awaiting a response from the Minister, according to information available to us. This lack of consideration by citizens in general and by socio-cultural animators in particular is serious and it is regrettable. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am not going to finish without mentioning something that also seems important to us and cannot go unnoticed in this debate: it was reported by the petitioners, at the hearing, that many sociocultural animators were dispensed with with the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic, since employers did not recognize the activity of these professionals, which is regrettable and should not have happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u209	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u210	Finally, Mr President, stressing that socio-cultural animators will play a decisive and decisive role in the future in supporting the poorest populations, the elderly, people with disabilities, so there must be a word of hope for them all.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u211	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would like to welcome the more than 4000 petitioners and thank the initiative they bring us here. The first higher course of Sociocultural Animation was authorized in 1989 under the Cooperative of Artistic Higher Education, Árvore, in Porto. Subsequently, offers were created in several higher education institutions, which were associated with other possibilities at the level of vocational schools, the IEFP (Instituto de Employo e Formation Professional ) and also short-term courses, which were capturing the interest of several people and extending these training offers a little throughout the national territory. Obviously, this interest also stemmed from the need to respond, to intervene as a sociocultural animator. Despite the specificities and functions required, the profession of the animator/sociocultural suffers the consequences of the legal vacuum due to lack of regulation. Faced with the heterogeneity of audiences and contexts in which these professionals work, technical knowledge and skills are essential, but also the personal and interpersonal skills in which emotional intelligence is a key factor. This profession requires a high capacity of adaptation, resilience, dedication and responsibility, but also teamwork. They are professionals able to develop their activities in the most diverse contexts, in local authorities, in educational equipment, in institutions supporting older people, with groups of young people and community groups in general. In the words of some of these professionals, which I would like to remind you, what motivates you most is the possibility of bringing everyday happiness to your users, through activities that take into account their characteristics, experiences and personal stories, contributing to the improvement of the living conditions of many people. Although the institutions and projects understand the relevance of these professionals and have already demanded their integration into the teams, the fact is that, not being a properly recognized or regulated career, the requirements, requirements, functions and responsibilities that these professionals assume or should assume are not defined. For the NAP, it is of course essential to treat the social area with the same rigor and requirement as other professional areas, with a legal framework that protects professionals, employers and beneficiaries. We will therefore follow up on all the initiatives that are being brought to this debate today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u213	In addition to the parties that presented legislative initiatives, the Bureau does not register, so we expect this to be quickly overcome. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mrs Mara Coelho of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by greeting, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the Portuguese Association for the Development of Sociocultural Animation, promoter of this petition, here present, as well as all the petitioners who promoted this initiative. This is exactly where we want to start. The pandemic was overwhelming for many sectors, for the way of life, for the way we live, socialize and work. But the pandemic was also responsible for changing or clarifying many perceptions about the importance of a social state and a social economy. Therefore, we must not fail to strengthen the importance that the SNS (National Health Service ), public social security and the public education system have had during this period we are living — during this period, they had the ability to provide the necessary services to the population — but also the whole social economy, where I want to highlight, recognize and appreciate the importance of sociocultural animators and animators, for their work, for the importance that they have in their various fronts in the local community, in the inter-municipal communities, in local authorities, in the IPSS, in the Mercy, in the private sector and in the central state. Moreover, this wish is in line with the well-known 1974 Council of Ministers resolution which recognises the need to stimulate the participation of local populations in the process of their own development and in the global dynamics of the socio-cultural life in which they are integrated, and whose need has reaffirmed in the last year and half.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u216	Today, we also discussed a draft law of the Left Block initiative that aims to recognize and regulate the professional status of sociocultural animation and a draft resolution of the PCP with the same object. in this sense, in the context of the bill presented by the Block of Left, it is necessary to make it very clear that we have the concerns of professionals of all sectors of sociocultural animation, and therefore for us relevant not to strangle the career in its various dimensions, both in the public and in the private. This, knowing that, in the public, the rule is that of the general career, under the General Labour Law in Public Functions. However, for the Socialist Party, it is even more relevant that access to all professionals who, in their different functions, are crucial to the exercise of sociocultural animation, without prejudice to others, is not blocked. As defined in our Constitution, Article 47. the, « everyone has the right to choose freely the profession or kind of work, save the legal restrictions imposed by the collective interest or inherent in their own capacity ». Therefore, although the rule is that of free choice of profession, its exercise may suffer restrictions imposed by law, duly justified, as the only way to safeguard the collective interest. However, Law No 2 / 2021, which we are discussing in this legislative session, establishes the system of access and exercise of professions and professional activities as well as the regime applicable to the assessment of proportionality prior to the adoption of legislative provisions limiting access to professions. For this to happen, it must be accompanied by an explanation that justifies it and substantiates it in detail to enable the assessment of conformity with the principle of proportionality, and must be based on qualitative elements, objectively and independently. Therefore, respecting and valuing the workers of socio-cultural animation is ensuring that none of them and those of them are left behind in this process because it has been done without the necessary debate, without taking into account the nature of the risks, as provided for by law, related to the objectives of the public interest, in particular the risks to the beneficiaries of the service or to the professionals or third parties. This activity has action in vulnerable sectors of society, which really deserve to study the impact of this measure, which can, to the limit — we do not know — contribute to the exclusion of tens, hundreds of professionals from sociocultural animation, and can have an opposite and overwhelming effect. Therefore, in our view, all and any professional status should be preceded by an opportunity study with analysis of impacts and possible side effects, which is not provided for in this bill, which is why we cannot follow it, because we do not ensure the protection of all professionals of sociocultural animation, because, in itself, we can include barriers and because we do not guarantee the assessment of the required and necessary proportionality. We're not the only ones who say it. The same was also mentioned in the context of contributions to the initiative in public assessment, which I quote: « It has direct involvement in the profession of socio-cultural animators, in their framework and in their functions, and should not be approved without a serious and extended discussion which includes all actors, professionals, schools, universities, institutions and others concerned», which does not, of course, exclude the continuing strengthening of the fight against precariousness, as has been done by this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u217	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ofélia Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I naturally begin by welcoming the Portuguese Association for the Development of Sociocultural Animation and the thousands of subscribers to the petition that we are discussing today and which is of the greatest importance. It is of the greatest importance because it expresses a set of concerns of socio-cultural animators, signaling the need to be approved a professional status for socio-cultural animation. The PSD accompanies these concerns because, in addition to being fair, they bring to the political debate a professional activity that is of the greatest importance as a response to the populations and as an instrument for the integrated development of individuals and groups where they are inserted. Although we follow these concerns, we must bear in mind that freedom of choice and access to professions is a fundamental constitutionally enshrined right and it is up to this House to ensure and guarantee this effective freedom of access. This constitutional consecration is, in fact, implemented and densified in the above-mentioned Law No 2 / 2021, which was published last January, and was approved by this House in December 2020. This diploma not only approved the system of access and exercise of professions and professional activities, but also approved a scheme applicable to the assessment of the proportionality prior to the adoption of legislative provisions limiting access to professions by transposing to the Portuguese legal system Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 958 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Mrs. Members, the initiatives that are being debated today, together with the desire that we all have to recognise and value socio-cultural animation as a professional activity, deserve and demand compliance with the law that this House of the Republic passed last December, this was not the House of Democracy. They deserve recognition, as a general principle enshrined in that diploma, that the access and exercise of professions must be free, that equal opportunities, the right to work, the right to freedom of choice of profession and work and the free movement of workers and service providers should be guaranteed. They deserve to comply with the legal regulations that have been approved by this House in order to avoid restrictions on access to and exercise of disproportionate professions for public purposes that they wish to safeguard. They are therefore in favour of giving in to the temptation of demagogy and populism to which the Left Block has already used us. Restricting the right of access to professions in a discriminatory way is dividing the citizens between those who are already engaged in professional activity and those who would like to be able to exercise it, but who see that right unwarrantedly limited. It is therefore our duty to ensure that any legislative initiative likely to restrict this fundamental right is not discriminatory, that it is justified for reasons of public interest and that it is appropriate to ensure the achievement of the objective pursued, not exceeding what is necessary to achieve this objective. In order to ensure these desires, Law No. 2 / 2021 requires that the adoption of legislative provisions that limit access and exercise to the profession should be preceded by an assessment of proportionality. This prior assessment of proportionality should be duly justified, objective, independent and must take into account all the mandatory instructional elements provided for in the law. It is not up to this House to make such an assessment or such a judgment, but rather to the government when professions are involved, as is the case, which are intended to regulate. On the other hand, such proportionality assessment should be compulsory but not binding by the Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations ( DGRT ), having this opinion to be taken into account in the legislative process. It should also be said that under the above-mentioned law any draft or bill whose provisions are likely to limit access to the profession can only be discussed and voted on by the Assembly of the Republic after the above-mentioned opinion of the DGERT. The legislative initiative of the Left Block is not accompanied by an assessment of proportionality, nor has it been the subject of the opinion of the DGERT. That is why this left block legislative initiative is no other than an act of political opportunism, purely partisan and without any technical criticism required by the law. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u219	Opinion of the DGERT? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u220	Without this assessment of proportionality and without the opinion of the DGERT, this Chamber does not have sufficient and sufficient elements to ensure the absence of disproportionate restrictions on public purposes that are intended to be safeguarded.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u221	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u222	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's be serious, don't make the law that we passed in December dead letter. Since the expectations of the petitioners are fair and legitimate, the Government should speed up the procedures necessary for decision-making on this matter. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u223	You have the floor to speak at the final stage of this debate on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There were words of recognition to the socio-cultural animators by all the benches, there were words of recognition to the activity and functions they perform and to their tremendous importance, particularly in the context of social intervention. There is all this recognition, but then it is necessary to realize, in practice, what response they have to give, in particular, PS and PSD, to workers, sociocultural animators, some of them present here. How will they effectively position themselves in the light of this initiative presented by the CFP, which requires the Government to assume its responsibilities in this area and which, involving the representative organisations of the workers, sets a career and enhances this profession? [[Protests by PSD Member Ofélia Ramos.]] This is what these workers need, as well as stability in their working bonds and not to jump from school year to school year or project to project knowing a reality of profound instability in their lives. The central issue is how these parties will stand in front of the vote tomorrow of this initiative presented by the CFP and what answer they have to give to workers, socio-cultural animators, if they will have to wait for many more years. It is that there are those who have been exercising the profession for 20 years without being recognized or having due wage valuation, and that is not acceptable either. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u225	To conclude the debate, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the hearing of the petitioners, who took place within the framework of the Committee on Labour and Social Security, the PS and the PSD said that they were very sensitive and concerned about the petition and that they would endeavour to follow up on the request. Question: What have you done? Did you ask for an opinion? Have any initiatives taken? Did you do something? Don't! They didn't do anything at all! [[Protests by PSD Member Ofélia Ramos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u227	We asked the committee to do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u228	Surely, within the committee, we are asking for information from the Government. That's what happens to all petitions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u229	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u230	But now that Parliament has the opportunity and the opportunity to decide, Mr President. Not only do you want to decide anything how you want to oppose the proposals that have arisen.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u231	Would you like to conclude, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u232	Yes, Mr. President, only 30 seconds. Frankly, would the Committee on Labour and Social Security ever hold a debate that was not serious and extended? So we can't ask for the opinions that we need if we want to ask them? Does this prevent us from starting this debate today in the committee, listening to everyone just to make a law that is not discriminatory and that is appropriate and proportionate?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u233	Would you like to conclude, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u234	So, we, Members of the Assembly of the Republic, who have a popular mandate, are not able to make a law with these characteristics?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u235	Would you like to conclude, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u236	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what you have done here today was a gesture of resignation and a statement of incompetence in question, but for our part we believe that it is possible and that we should approve this legislation and respond to the petitioners who have called on this Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u237	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded this item on the agenda. The Bureau does not fail to record, with any sensitivity, and even with any emotion, the requests of Members who are sometimes made to use the word « only 1 minute», « only 30 seconds»... Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, the times are to fulfill..., finally, with the flexibility that good sense naturally imposes. But ask for more 1 minute or more 30 seconds is it doesn't work! We will move on to the last item of today's agenda, which is from the assessment of Petition No 111 / XIV / 1. a ( Francisca Meleças de Magalhães Barros et al.) — Approval of the victim status for children inserted in the context of domestic violence. I note that there is a representation in the gallery of the subscribers to this petition, to whom the Bureau respectfully welcomes. At the same time with this petition, we will also generally discuss Law Projects No. 630 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthen the protection of children and young people who live in the context of domestic violence or who witness it, 713 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Altera the General Regime of the Child Protection Process, strengthening the right of children to effective participation in decisions concerning them, 779 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recognition of the victim status to children who witness or live in the context of domestic violence, amending Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 establishing the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of their victims, and the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September 849 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecration of victim status for children who witness the practice of domestic violence or who live in the context of domestic violence and 853 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Recognizes the victim status of minors living in the context of domestic violence or testimony. Let us, then, start the debate. Mrs Cristina Rodrigues has the floor to present her legislative initiatives. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, by coincidence on World Children's Day, several initiatives are under discussion with a view to greater protection for children in the context of domestic violence. We owe this debate to the petitioners, whom I have already welcomed for bringing this issue back to debate and for refusing to give up children. The truth is, unfortunately, children have always been victims of domestic violence. The majority of the understanding followed by jurisprudence is that this crime does not recognize the child as an autonomous victim, but as an aggravating factor of this crime. But what justice is this in which a child is assaulted in the family context and is not seen as a victim? This is what we intend to correct with our initiative, following the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry. The other proposal concerns the fact that children continue to have various obstacles to access to justice, so we propose that parental conferences should be recorded, that judges should have the support of technical advice when they hear children, as well as an informal lawyer appointed to them. We intend, with these initiatives, to build a system of justice adapted to children, to give them voice and not to silence them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u239	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, following the presentations of the initiatives, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would like to welcome and thank the petitioners and petitioners present here, representing more than 48 000 petitioners, for bringing to this House today such an important topic, on this symbolic Day of the Child. The right to a safe, balanced and affectionate childhood is inalienable and its guarantee depends on the child's ability to build the foundations of a successful and happy adult life. The impact domestic violence has on children cannot be seen as merely circumstantial or as externality. This important matter arises even discriminated against in an opinion by the Attorney-General of the Republic, which mentions the absence of « the legal recognition of children as victims of the domestic violence crime when they experience this context within the family that integrates and when they are present witnesses of that same reality. Do not keep on seeking. ” The children of women who are victims of domestic violence have a school retention rate five times higher than the national average. It is a consequence of the violent acts they witness and have negative effects on school income, as well as, of course, causing various difficulties from the personal and social point of view. In addition, more than half of children and young people who live in situations where the mother is assaulted are not yet signaled at the protective committees of children and young people. There are about 28 000 cases reported per year and the minors signaled for attending are about 11 000. In terms that the crime of domestic violence is currently constructed, we witness a sign contrary to the recognition and consecration of the child as an autonomous, differentiated victim, holder of own rights and deserving of identical legal-criminal protection, as indicated in the opinion of the Attorney General's Office of the Republic, and the proof of this contradiction—and even incomprehensible disregard—is that the child arises as a mere aggravating factor of the crime-base, in some cases. Viewing the child as merely aggravating is instrumentalizing it and disregarding the serious and profound consequences that this violence leads to the growth of a child. It is not reasonable to hold the shoulders and say that it is up to the court to apply the existing child victim status because of its special vulnerability, when we all know that it is a regime that leaves many doubts in the application and for which legal clarification is urgent. And it is to this House that it is necessary to clarify what has previously left little clear. We cannot think of a future where we can easily allow children who are victims of violent acts in the family context not to be given due care. Like the proposed law presented and plunged into this House with the votes against PS and the abstention of the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the CH, and since the problem has not yet been solved, the NAP presents today an initiative aimed at clarifying the status of the child in order to ensure the recognition of the victim status to children who witness or live in the context of domestic violence, seeking to enforce the rights of children and safeguard their best interests. In the words of Nelson Mandela, «there is no sharper revelation of the soul of a society than the way it treats its children. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u241	Thank you very much, Mrs Bebiana Cunha and thank you also for the scrupulous fulfillment of time. There's, in fact, one second of credit. For an intervention, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor to present the legislative initiative of the CDS-PP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Bebiana Cunha, even at the end of her speech, quoted an author — more than one author, she is a figure we greatly appreciate: Nelson Mandela. I would say to you that there is a happy coincidence on the date of discussion of these initiatives, which is to be discussed on the Day of the Child. I must confess to you that I am not very enthusiastic about these days and about that – I think that there are days for almost everything and something else – but the Day of the Child has a great meaning, a great symbolism, so we will be discussing these matters on the Day of the Child which is obviously relevant as well. I was referring to the author's question of choosing one of the great authors — perhaps one of the greatest — of our language, which was quite right when he said: "Great is poetry, goodness and dance... / But the best in the world are children. Therefore, regarding citations, I quote Person to explain the importance of the date and the relevance of the debate. We have discussed the subject many times and, if so, this debate would not be necessary. I agree that in an advanced and advanced society, we should not even need this debate. But the truth is that we have, the truth is that it is close to many things that we have discussed, for example, the Istanbul Convention, which is an essential matter and precisely foresees this possibility. And it is also true that we, who have discussed domestic violence so many times here, have focused on it—and rightly not on the woman, who, we know statistically, is the main victim of domestic violence. But we cannot ignore — and I fear, too, so many other times — neither violence against the elderly nor, above all, violence and exposure of children in the context of domestic violence. There is a very special feature for which, moreover, this petition, which had almost 45,000 signatures and which I take advantage to greet, complimenting and congratulating the petitioners, drew attention to: if, for example, even women who are victims of domestic violence are often silent victims, for various reasons, children are even more silent victims, because they often share affections with the aggressors, they do not understand what is happening, they have a very particular fear of the children, and this can cause this traumatic situation to which they are subject to accompany them throughout life and, of course, to be decisive from a negative point of view. I would not say that they themselves will become violent because it depends, because each case is a case — but all children exposed to this type of violence will certainly be marked people who will often not forget what they have lived and who have witnessed. That is why the CDS joins this discussion, in the assumption and framework of our values, according to which the most vulnerable in society must be exactly those who have to be protected, and we join with a project saying precisely that the child is not, as it were, a victim or collateral damage to domestic violence, not a victim because he was there, he is a direct victim of the situation of domestic violence. We therefore agree with the amendment to Article 152. we also propose that, effectively, the status of direct victim in situations of domestic violence be attributed to children, which seems to us entirely fair, correct and rests with the petition that was presented here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u243	You have the floor, also to present a legislative initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the 45 000 petitioners, in the person of the first subscriber, Francisca Barros. Domestic violence is a crime with thousands of victims in Portugal, mostly women. It is a heinous crime, with prolonged physical and psychological consequences over time, but not only for the victims who have been assaulted, but also the minors who are exposed to domestic violence suffer these consequences. In 2019, according to the annual report on the monitoring of domestic violence by the Ministry of Internal Administration, from domestic violence participations to security forces around 31 % were related to minor occurrences. The same report indicates that three domestic violence participations were received by these security forces on average not per month, not per week, not per day, but per hour. That is, if one third of these crimes are seen by minors, in the next hour, on average, there will be participation in a domestic violence involving minors. It's a very worrying fact. Today, it is widely recognized that exposure of minors to situations of domestic violence is deeply harmful to their healthy development. The understanding that the status of victims should be assigned to these children and young people and that a new legal type of crime should be created to protect their free development has been shared by very diverse entities, such as the Advocates'Order or the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is what we are proposing today, as we have already proposed in the past. Still, it has been difficult to obtain a majority in this House so that this status is recognized and this legal type is created. One of the most commonly used arguments is that the exposure of minors to domestic violence is, in itself, a form of domestic violence and that jurisprudence already understands it. We disagree that this prevents this clarification, because we know that it is rare the jurisprudence that has followed this understanding and because the affected minors cannot remain at the mercy of an interpretation that can save them as victims but that often does not. So today, we insist on this proposal and, with the aim of obtaining the greatest possible consensus, we have already informed that we will require the fall to the specialty of our bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u245	We are now entering the interventions of the other political forces. You have the floor, for the first intervention, Mrs Elza Pais of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on this World Day of the Child, there has been a symbolic dimension, as we speak in this Parliament about the rights of children and all that we have done in the legal order to protect them. We therefore welcome all legislative initiatives aimed at improving the current legal regime to strengthen the instruments of protection of children victims of crime, in the case, victims of domestic violence, and we make a very special greeting to the more than 48 000 subscribers of the petition for approval of the victim status for children inserted in the context of domestic violence, in the figure of their first subscribers, Francisca Barros and Dulce Rocha. Indeed, domestic violence and violence against children continue to be — it has already been said — a great scourge, which remains in very high levels, despite everything we have been doing over these decades and has been a lot. This requires all of us and all of us to make the most of our efforts to find innovative solutions to continue to fight and protect vulnerable child victims. The official data do not leave any doubt: they realize that one of the first situations of danger most communicated to the CPJs (protection committees for children and young people) is domestic violence, with 29% reported cases; that in about 31% of cases recorded by the security forces the occurrences were seen by minors; the RASI (Annual Internal Security Report) this year realizes that domestic violence has decreased 6, 3 % — I will not bring to the discussion the silencing or the anticipated public responses to support and protect the victims — but, in any case, violence against minors has increased still slightly. The fight against domestic violence — it is well known — has, indeed, taken over central priority in socialist governments. A set of measures to combat all forms of violence, in particular against women, including homicides, as well as the improvement of victim protection mechanisms, including children and young people, are included in the Government Programme. in this line, the Government presented to this House a bill, which is being discussed, in the specialty, and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presented a proposal for an amendment to this bill, also under discussion. We believe that it is in this debate that the proposals must be appreciated, but it is important from now on that children are not being protected in our legal system. However, and we have seen this over these years, particularly in the hearings we have made in the framework of the petition, the importance of clarifying the law in force, in particular the text of Article 152 has been set up. the Criminal Code and Article 67. o -A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in order to avoid doubts of interpretation in the application of legislation to minimize negative effects, which we know exist, of less correct interpretations that may be detrimental to the protection of children. in this line points out GREVIO (Group of Experts on Actionagainst Violenceagainst Women), which says that Portugal should review the definition of victim and also that it should promote a greater link between the family court and minors and criminal courts. The Retrospective Homicide Analysis Team in Domestic Violence ( EARHVD ) also recommends that this House consider the need and opportunity to clarify the text of Article 152. the Criminal Code, and the proposal of the PS Parliamentary Group did so. The objective will then be to avoid redundancy, not forgetting that the existing legal regime already includes several solutions aimed at the protection of these victims, and it is necessary to adapt Article 152. the Criminal Code in Article 67. o -A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, both also in accordance with Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009. Thus, not highlighting some important issues because I do not have much time, I would like to say that it is clear that the need for protection of children is clear, without any interpretative doubts, that children exposed to violence are also victims of this violence and it is important that the morbidity of the processes be reduced. To this end, the possibility of the criminal investigation judge should be considered to apply immediately to the alleged coercion measures that remove him from the house and limit his contact with minors. It should also be ensured that the risk of victimisation is taken into account in the process of regulating parental responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u247	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u248	Finally, Mr President, allow me to quote Cecilia Meireles, not our colleague, but the poet: "The last floor is very far away: / it costs a lot to get there. - But that's where I want to live. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u249	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by greeting the representatives of the petitioners, the more than 44 000 people who have signed the petition that Members and Members are urging to approve the victim status of children in the context of domestic violence. This petition is very important because it brings this matter back to the Assembly of the Republic — it is not the first time we have discussed it and we are again discussing it — which is a great symbolism, as has already been said by other Members. Symbolic dates are important because they call us to reflect on the conditions that we need to correct and improve, and we certainly need to correct and ensure legislative changes that protect children living in a family context of domestic violence. We are discussing the need and urgency of legislative changes that guarantee the protection of children living in a family context of domestic violence on the day when the Day of the Child is signed, an established date with the aim of raising awareness of the entire community for children's rights and the need to promote an improvement in their living conditions. This date, which is celebrated today, calls on us to create conditions to improve the living conditions of all children in view of their full development. And that is what this legislative amendment must seek: we must guarantee conditions for a safe, balanced and affectionate childhood, because we know that these conditions are fundamental to the construction of a successful and happy adult life. That is the way we should go and that is where we should go. However, there are several obstacles that must be removed in order to achieve this goal. From then on, the data reveal that cases of domestic violence are seen by children and that domestic violence is the second most communicated danger situation to the child and youth protection committees. These data are worrying because, as the petitioners point out, "children who witness episodes of violence in the family and who experience violent environments in their daily lives develop various diseases, physical and psychics, which deeply affect their development, preventing them from growing harmoniously, irreversibly marking the course of their lives to adulthood." In other words, these are the conditions in which children are in the presence of domestic violence and the reality we have found is that the system does not respond properly to these children. Although the argument is often mobilized that the law already protects children and that in these situations they may be considered victims, what happens under the Penal Code or the Child and Youth Protection Act in Danger, we know that this does not happen and that children rarely, or never, are considered victims, thus becoming unprotected. As it is, the system is not working and so we need to improve, that is, this system needs improvement. We need to make changes that are transformative, which ensure in an unequivocal way the protection of children inserted in contexts of domestic violence. It was with this conviction that the Left Block introduced, at the beginning of this Legislation, the Bill No. 1 / XIV / 1. the, which was the revision of a proposal already discussed and which placed the express need of children witnesses of cases of domestic violence being considered victims of domestic violence. This proposal, although it was our first proposal, demonstrating the conviction and commitment to this measure, was rejected with the votes against the PS. However, we do not give up, insist, and tabled amendments to the Bill No 28 / XIV / 1. a, of the Government, amending the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance of its victims. We propose again that children living in the context of domestic violence or that testimony be always considered as victims, even if they are not the direct target of violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u251	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u252	The debate is in the process of specialization and we look forward to our proposals being approved to ensure the specific and explicit protection of child victims. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u253	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition we are discussing today — which we welcome, as we welcome its signatories — raises the problem of children who are victims of domestic violence and their right to safe childhood. The eradication of domestic violence and the defense of children against violence are certainly objectives around which there is a long way to go. There are certainly improvements to be introduced into domestic violence legislation. In fact, a short time ago the CFP approved an amendment to that effect. However, what reality calls us is beyond the law and gaps of the law and is much more related to the prevention of contexts, of invisibility of cases and then to the operationalization of the response. Returning to the text of the petition, it seems to us that the concerns noted in it are, in part, guarded by the legislation in force, without prejudice to adjustments and improvements that may be made. In fact, children involved in situations of domestic violence are, firstly, covered by the Child and Youth Promotion and Protection Act at Risk and, secondly, are included in the concept of victim, poured into the regime applicable to domestic violence. The concept of 'especially vulnerable victim' which the Code of Criminal Procedure already provides for the provision of this status as a victim of domestic violence to children, as the Attorney-General of the Republic has already acknowledged and clarified precisely. The most complex issue in this regard is that of declarations for future memory and on it the CFP has been sensitive to alerts concerning the potential to affect the provisions of Article 134. that of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which allows refusal of testimony to descendants, ascendants, brothers, adopted, etc. imposing on the victims the cover of their own protection, something they themselves may not want to do. Having said this, there are certainly improvements to introduce into legislation and a social problem with the dimension of domestic violence in our country must have a decisive action by all. What cannot happen is, sometimes because of indignation and impatience in the face of a problem that persists and even gets worse, sometimes because of mere political convenience, which reduces the discussion to successive legislative amendments, in the expectation that the problem will be resolved. Unfortunately, this approach has not been effective. There is a great need, yes, to question what happens when these situations are detected, as they are detected when there are no professionals in all essential services, from school to health, going through the security forces and services. What is the reality of protective committees for children and young people at risk? What are the means at your disposal? Are there multidisciplinary teams with the ability to intervene and work in the problem, in health centres or in schools? Is there psychological monitoring of victims, whether they are adults or children? It is that between what is written in the law and life there is still a huge breakthrough. It is in this vacuum of intervention capacity that we think there must be more focus, under the penalty of continuing without conditions of public investment to ensure the application of the law we already have. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u255	The last speech on this agenda item is addressed to Mrs Emília Cerqueira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I naturally begin by complimenting the more than 48 000 petitioners, in the person of their representatives, who are here today. On the part of the PSD Parliamentary Group, we must also recall the happy coincidence of this debate on children taking place, precisely on World Children's Day, which also brings us together for responsibility, as legislators, so that we always have a very special and very particular attention to the child in its various dimensions and also in its victim dimension. Since domestic violence has brought together all political parties, it is a cross-cutting concern to society as a whole and to all political-party spectra, and there has indeed been a great evolution in its fight, with a view to eradicating it, in the elderly, in adults and children — although the elderly are adults, unfortunately, often they are treated almost as if they were not — and therefore there has been a great fight in all aspects of violence. Especially from the signing of the Istanbul Convention by Portugal, with a view to eradicating all forms of violence, we have taken great steps, both in combating, in raising awareness, in preventing and also in combating domestic violence. Five initiatives, in addition to the petition, are under consideration today, but at the moment we also have five initiatives already under specialization, to be discussed in the Sub-Commission on Equality and Non-Discrimination. One of them is an initiative by the Government, to which the PSD has presented a proposal for an amendment which has to do with a question already addressed here, the status of victim, which is an amendment to clarify the status of victim so that there is no doubt that children, when exposed to violence, whether direct or indirect, must also benefit from that status as victim. This is one of the proposals being worked out in the midst of a package, which we have called the package of domestic violence, in its various aspects, and these initiatives, in a way, end up doubling what is already under discussion, in terms of the subject which they cover. As has already been said, essentially, we do not have a problem of law, we often have a problem of law enforcement. It is that if we pay attention to the content of Article 152. the Penal Code, as regards domestic violence, already covers the various types of violence and exposed children, either directly or indirectly, domestic violence is already protected and has this status as a victim. We cannot fall into the mistake of creating the perception that there is no such victim status. Even then, in the remaining numbers of this same article, we already have since the situations of aggravating the penalty to those who are the punishments which can immediately be applied to the aggressor, even in terms of coercion measures, from the removal of residence to the electronic means of remote surveillance, today given to the victims so that they can act an alarm when there is an approach to the aggressor and feel afraid. Finally, there is already a number of measures. As for the children exposed directly or indirectly, there is already the possibility, in the domestic violence process itself, in the criminal proceedings, that the measure of withdrawal in respect of the protection and exercise of parental responsibilities is decided. Therefore, we are no longer before a legal void of child protection and much path has been made. But there is really a problem that we are living in the country, which is transversal and that everyone must be concerned about, that has to do with the application and the lack of means given to the entities in the field, in particular to the CPCJs. CPCJs do not have the means, do not have the facilities, depend much on the goodwill of a number of people throughout the country to have this important role of signaling, which depends on schools and health centres but almost always on a voluntary aspect, in a situation where we should have a much more serious investment. It is that as we invest in childhood, we are investing in the future and sometimes in this government, despite the many announcements, there is no way that policies are actually put on the ground and that there is the means needed to fight the real scourge of violence in its various meanings. All, and on the Day of the Child more than ever, we must remember that a child victim will be an adult in suffering and it is another problem that will lead to the next generation. Thus, all investment in children — which has not been made, I repeat again — is an investment in the future, especially in an aging country like ours, with so many birth problems and so many problems in restoring generations. So it's just an investment and we hope that in the specialty we can take this package to good use, so that children are increasingly protected in law and on the ground. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u257	This intervention ends this item on our agenda and also ends the set of issues we had to discuss. Before moving on to the announcement of tomorrow's agenda, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has information to give to the House. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u258	Mr President, very late for everyone. It is only to realize that Mr Pedro Sousa of the Socialist Party, who is in prophylactic isolation, attended the plenary session through video conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-01.u259	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow the plenary will meet at 3 p.m. and will have two points on the agenda. The first point is the debate of the Government's Appeal No 9 / XIV / 2. the second item of the second item of the agenda is the vote on the Rules of Procedure, requested by BE, on cultural policy, and the second item of the agenda. To all and to all I wish to continue in a good afternoon and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 59 minutes.]]
