ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] Before we enter the first item on the agenda of the day, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor to read the file. Mrs. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, the Bills Nos 113 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) and 114 / XIV/ 3. a ( GOV ), which fall to 12. the Commission, and draft resolutions Nos 1455 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE) and 1456 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1457 / XIV/ 3. a ( ENP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary. Starting on the agenda, we have as our first point the discussion of the Bill No 107 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Change the terms of the term of office in the half-time of the holders of the board. For the presentation of this bill, Mr. Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration, Alexandra Leitão. Mrs. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Strengthening proximity governance is one of the strategic objectives of the XXII Constitutional Government Programme, which aims to deepen decentralization and transfer competences to local authorities, while maintaining as a priority the promotion of the recovery and growth of the financial capacity of the parish. To this end, the Government Programme provides that all ferries must have conditions for the exercise of these new powers, in particular by ensuring that at least one of its members is able to perform mid-time functions supported by the State budget. The proposed law that I come forward is designed to create these conditions, so that all the parish can have at least one element to perform on a medium-time basis. It shall be up to the President to decide whether these duties are performed by him or whether he chooses to assign them to another member of the executive. With this proposal, it is intended to extend this regime even to other parishes, because it was so far limited to larger parishes. That is to say, the 3092 parishes in the territory can benefit from this scheme rather than the present 185. This also enables the board presidents who wish to perform their full-time duties to keep the part financed by the State Budget, competing with the board in this case only to finance the additional medium-time. This measure, which will be financed by the State budget, represents a total investment of about EUR 29 million already in the 2022 budget, is this diploma approved in this House in time for the collaboration of all. I stress that this is an investment rather than an investment, because it is an investment that will give more conditions to the parish to perform their duties and to provide better services to their populations, which, in fact, already do with their dedication and commitment today, so it is of the most elementary justice that this function is properly recognized. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In recent years, the Government has promoted the budgetary strengthening of the parish boards, enabling their autonomy to be effective in terms of financial and human resources. I am sure that this is another very important step in the way of valuing the proximity functions performed by the autarchs, which, especially in recent pandemic times, have proved so important. In fact, it is not too much to acknowledge and praise the essential role that the authorities, both municipalities and parish, have played in this pandemic crisis that we face. The prompt and proximity response was one of the determining factors for the success of the fight against COVID-19. Therefore, it is in this process that we are committed to building the decentralization and empowerment of the autarchs, to make the best management decisions, according to the deep knowledge they have of their populations. As usual, the state begins in every parish, and these are, in fact, the driving force of this process. I therefore believe that this bill will make an important contribution in this regard, and it is important that the 2022 budget can already understand the budgetary impact of this measure which I am now proposing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u5	For an intervention, Mrs Isura Morais, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u6	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The proposal for a bill under consideration aims to change the terms of the term of office at the mid-time of the holders of the councils and entered on 27 July on the eve of autarchic elections. This bill, which can produce effects only on 1 January 2022, had unfortunately a main concern: to promote the Socialist Party's authorships, in a gesture of manifest electoral campaign.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u7	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u8	We can agree with the content of the proposal, but never with the way it tried to interfere with the electoral process, which did not surprise us because it was the main way of doing this government. The same happened during the election campaign, with the Prime Minister traveling the country, on a pilgrimage, to announce the millions of PRR(Plan of Recovery and Resilience) and to promise everything to socialist autarchs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u9	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u10	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u11	We have checked him and we will be here to monitor and monitor these promises, but we will monitor them in all the authorities of the country. The Portuguese are full of promises and have not forgotten that, during the pandemic, everything the government has promised has not done either. It was the autoarchs alone who had to promote exceptional measures for the country. It was the autoarchs who in many situations replaced the inefficiencies of the government. We do not forget that, when the municipalities and the parish most needed, the government's legislation aimed at the authorities at nothing contributed to effective and necessary support for liquidity, nor to mitigate the enormous financial effort they made. The Government could have challenged the intervention capacity of the local authority. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the initiative in question, which we recognize as positive, we believe that it addresses issues of the greatest importance. The Government intends to deepen decentralization and subsidiarity in the exercise of competences for local authorities and aims to create conditions for all board members to be able to have at least one elected member in mid-time, eliminating the limits of number of voters and area for the exercise of their mandate in that regime. As a positive step, we only regret that the government cannot go further, taking advantage of this opportunity to review other criteria applicable to local administration. I stress that, for the Social Democratic Party, the juntas de frégesia are not smaller authorities, being exactly them, often the first door to which people beat. The PSD has always had a special concern with the parish and I remember that it was thanks to the PSD that there were three major changes to the parish. First, the income from the IMI (municipal property tax) rustic became, in its entirety, to the parish, and was previously distributed as a percentage to the municipalities. At the time, the PS, with its abstention, was the only party force that did not favour this amendment. Secondly, the parish was entitled to a 1 % share in revenue from urban IMI. The PS abstained again in this vote. Thirdly, the parish was able to conclude contracts for the lease of property. The PS did not follow this PSD initiative either, which was approved. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to leave two notes, the first being that the history of the PSD is inseparable from its connection to local power, based on the protagonistship of its authorships and on the importance it has always given to the authorities. The second is that, throughout its history, the PSD has always defended and applied the principle of subsidiarity, in the sense that public competences must be exercised by the best placed to achieve them, and underlyingly that effectiveness is achieved only by responsible decentralization for municipalities and parish and by the definition of the exact resources that allow for the best performance and best results for citizens and for the public record. Mr President, I cannot finish this speech without, on behalf of the PSD, welcoming all the authorships from all over the country after the elections are held.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u13	We welcome all those who begin their duties and all who leave office, as well as all those who have collaborated in this election campaign for the elections. Nor can I end up without welcoming the President of the PSD for the results achieved in these autarchic elections. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u14	Mr José Maria Cardoso, of the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u15	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: We are here to make an assessment of this bill which amends the terms of the term of office in the medium-time of the holders of the fregetical boards. The Government, as the author of the initiative, bases it on two principles: on the one hand, the intention to deepen decentralization and subsidiarity in the exercise of powers by local authorities and, on the other, to create conditions for all board members to be able to count on at least one member elected in mid-time. On this last claim, we agree. We have always considered this and said it several times, both in discussions of the State budget and in the discussion of the framework law for the parish. We believe that the parish, as local authorities, has been successively underestimated and that dignity must be given to the exercise of office holders. We defend that there is a proper seat for every parish, one official at least, and at least one president at half-time. These are principles that we consider to be basic in order to dignify the exercise of local power in the case of the parish. We therefore agree with the proposed law under consideration, and it is necessary to amend point 1, thus removing the constraints of the number of voters and the surface area, in order to ensure, in the universality of the parish, the possibility of having a member to perform functions in the medium-time. In this regard, it is good, in particular, to repeal paragraph 3 which creates the conditions for direct transfer from the State budget. The ANAFRE itself ( National Association of Freguesias ), in its opinion it has issued, tries to create conditions, or at least suggest that it can go further. In fact, we also agree. In other words, if this constraint is removed from the minimum limit for the medium-time, we also consider that it can be withdrawn for the whole time. This seems to us therefore to be a suggestion to work and debate, which is the result of the opinion of ANAFRE. We believe that it can be incorporated into a possibility that the government must pay attention to. As for this claim, it's okay. However, as regards the intention to deepen decentralization and subsidiarity in the exercise of powers, we have several reservations. The first is a procedural criticism. The Rules of Procedure state that these bills must be accompanied by studies and documents which base them, which were not the case. That is, we have not had any study, we have simply had two opinions, which the explanatory statement itself indicates. As regards the substance of the proposal, most of the competences assigned to the parish result from inter-administrative contracts, such as a sort of essentially executive or operational car transfers, predominantly material, without any decision. If there is no agreement, this is imposed, subject always to municipalist claims. It is true that Decree-Law No 57 / 2019 grants certain powers to the parish, but even these are exercised by the determination of the municipal regulation in force. That is, even in these cases of direct transfer, the limitation of the exercise of local power remains like a kind of subalternization of the fregueses themselves. Therefore, the fact that these transfers, these powers, are attributed to the parish in such a way that sometimes discretionary does not correspond to the so-called « decentralisation ». In addition, their financial transfers are always determined by the municipality, which gives control over the parish. This distribution of support and participations without criteria undoubtedly favours the exercise of municipal power. We therefore do not consider that there is a real decentralization, but rather a direct transfer of competences from the municipality, which is held in the hands of such often discretionary power, until we know that the exercise of power is very much a municipalist presidentialism, which is often exercised in a very personal way. Therefore, we do not even consider that there is this decentralization. from there our disagreement with that claim by the government. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that, in the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities — which is inconceivable...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u16	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the time left.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u17	I'm done now, Mr. President. ... and that it is limited to saying that there is nothing to oppose this initiative—he alerts himself to the need for something that we, BE, also defend, that it is the amendment and updating of the Statute of Local Elections as a way to ensure their dignity and to respond to various changes that have occurred in recent times. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u18	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u19	Mr President, whom I welcome, as well as the Minister, the Secretary of State, the ladies and gentlemen. Members: The juntas de frégesia, in fact, are the closest body of power to the people, with greater proximity to their concrete reality, which in itself constitutes an element of enormous value, which must, of course, be valued and included in depth, with the replacement of all extinct fregies, without restriction, having, of course, taken into account and respecting the will of the people, although it has not been in that sense that the law was passed here in the Assembly of the Republic. Frequencies effectively play a huge role among the people and in solving concrete problems, giving voice to their demands, and that is something we consider to be of value. In fact, in the pandemic that we still face, although in quite different parts of the world from when it started, the fact is that the parish had a very important role in supporting its populations, in particular—and here it highlighted the support for people with greater fragility, for whom they were always present, did not lower their arms and contributed, in a very significant way, to maintain a link, not to leave populations to give up. We know that the authorships of parish, in the country outside, perform functions with commitment, with dedication, but often the exercise of their mandate is done in contexts of great difficulties. If we look at the number of frequencies that can be covered today by the permanence regime, either for half time or for all time, we see that it is indeed quite a small number. And there is a significant number of people who take the option in accordance with the legislation, but these costs are borne by the budget itself, which is very unfair, because they also have smaller budgets. We therefore believe that the conditions must be guaranteed for the electors to have, in fact, these conditions for the exercise of their mandate and to be able to develop the competences conferred on the parish boards. We therefore generally follow the proposal that the Government brings today's debate to the Assembly of the Republic, however, by making a reference. In fact, ANAFRE raises an issue which we consider, however, that, within the framework of the specialty, it can and should be considered, in view of the possibility of fregueries having all of them to have the medium-term stay regime, and can also, by its choice, have access to the whole time, bearing the remainder. They all have the limitation of the minimum number of voters, as they are placed. I would also like to mention two aspects in this debate. First, we believe that this is a step towards valuing the parish, but much more is needed. In fact, it is necessary to provide the means to enable them to exercise their powers. We have often put forward proposals for strengthening the financial resources and not only when it was the discussion of the Local Finance Act. I recall that the amendment to this law that was adopted was agreed between the PS and the PSD, not allowing this significant advance to increase the participation of the Frequencies Fund in State taxes, which would, in fact, allow them to go further, to the point of view of the financial resources, so that the Fregues could develop their powers. But I would also like to raise another point, which is in line with a proposal that we tabled in the State budget for 2021 and which also sought to compensate the frigidities for all unforeseen expenditure in the context of the fight against the epidemic. Once again, the PS, the PSD, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative prevented it from being approved. Therefore, when we talk about the need for this appreciation, we do it with property, not only in speech, but also in practice, with concrete answers that were not only advanced because the other political forces prevented it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u20	Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister : at a time when we make a balance sheet of what the elections were, we cannot fail to note our concern—knowing that the Minister will certainly share it—that women have less to remain in the autarchic leadership and that there is a huge way to go in our country to ensure greater participation and greater leadership in our country. With regard to the proposal presented here, of course, it is essential that we create conditions to ensure the exercise of citizenship and ensure the exercise of mandates with the greatest and best possible dignity and, therefore, it is essential that the elect and the elect have the conditions to exercise their mandates, respecting and giving the dignity that the local power deserves us. We follow this proposal in general. This is an ancient claim of the parish and also of the association that represents them. It's a path that should have been made by now. It is late, but it is important that it is now possible, by means of the State budget, to guarantee these smaller frequencies funding, also through the State budget, and to guarantee the exercise of the mandate in the medium term. But, in the field of expertise, we would like to note some concerns, of which I will highlight two: one of them is the need to combine these changes which have been made with the status of the local voters. Even for a matter of greater legal consistency, it seems to us essential to take this path. We also believe that there must be a reflection on these smaller frequencies, if they have a budget available, in order to clarify that they can complement this medium with full time, if the budgets available so allow, I repeat. So it seems to us that there is a path to be taken here in the field of expertise. There are, of course, more in-depth discussions that need to be made, not in this context, but with due seriousness and rigour, which are linked to the pay tables of the elect and the elect. We are well aware that the dignity of people and their appreciation is also due to remuneration, a way of combating corruption that must be brought to the political debate without falling into populism and making a serious debate on this matter. There is still another aspect which we must not fail to bring into a wider debate and which is linked to the guarantee of means for the elect and the elect to carry out their duties, particularly by ensuring, for example, advice. To conclude and take advantage of the presence of the Minister, we would like to know whether it is in this State budget that we are going to know as strictly as possible what is the fund for the transfer of competences, in relation to decentralization, with due discrimination by area of intervention, in chambers and in fregueries. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u22	For an intervention, I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister : First, my statement of interest. I am part of the board of directors of the National Association of Freguesias, which also issued the opinion that we have brought to him. Yesterday, the CDS also had the opportunity here, in a political statement, to make the balance sheet of the elections, highlighting the role played by all the authorships of Freguesia and all the city halls, at the beginning of this year and a half, and all the support they gave to the people in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19, which has been constantly devalued and ignored by the government. But what brings us here today is this Bill No 107 / XIV / 2. the, amending the terms of the term of office, as regards the half-time, of the holders of the board. The CDS welcomes this bill, but we can't help but note that it's already four years late. In fact, this bill could and should have come sooner, so we regret that it is only now coming to us, but it will in fact allow — as has already been said — that every parish can have the opportunity to have an electorate in half time. As I said, this is a proposal that obtained the favourable opinion of the National Association of Freguesias. In fact, not only of ANAFRE but also of the vast majority of the parish, because not all are associated with ANAFRE and have already defended this proposal that is now coming to us. In any case, it could actually have gone much further, taking into account the very opinion that we have brought to it. What was intended — and we hope that it can still be done in the specialty — was the elimination of Article 27 ( b ) ( 3 ). the, withdrawing the minimum limit, and that in a parish of up to 1000 electors the respective board president could exercise his full-time mandate. And why is that? Because there are a lot of parishioners in this country with 1500 voters who actually have a very significant dimension. Also in the field of delegation and decentralization of competences this proposal ends up creating many inequalities that could and should have been avoided, taking into account this proposal which ANAFRE brought to it. We also hope that, in the field of expertise, the same will be able to receive welcome, always safeguarding—and, I repeat, as ANAFRE itself and the CDS have been defending — the principles of budgetary balance on the part of the board of friezes, which is important and fundamental. Therefore, on the part of the CDS, we hope that this proposal can still be changed, in the field of specialty, where these inequalities would certainly be corrected, because we have frequencies of up to 1500 voters with a very significant dimension and we have frequencies with more than 1500 voters, which even have fewer competences and less territorial areas than others, so we urgently need to resolve these issues and thus reduce these inequalities. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u24	For an intervention, Mr João Paulo Correia now has the floor of the PS. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u25	Good afternoon, Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: The first word is to greet the Government, which, in fulfilling its Programme, brings here a proposal to Parliament, so that all members of the parish councils in the country will be entitled to at least one election in half time in the exercise of their duties. The fregetal boards are the face of the State closest to the citizens and this proposal, which, as I said recently, allows all of the country's fregetal boards to be entitled to one of its elements, at least in half time, means that the operation of the board will improve and their communities will be better served. It is an initiative that comes to the meeting of an ancient claim of the National Association of Frequencies, of the authentic world, which had, of course, the favorable opinion of ANAFRE and also had the favourable opinion of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. from our point of view, it is an initiative, as we have heard, that deserves a broad consensus. It is now in the field of expertise — and certainly in other fronts — that it deserves discussion, but in what is the essence of the proposed law that is being debated here, it deserves almost unanimity because of the interventions we have already heard. This is an initiative that enhances and dignifies the local power of parish, not only because it strengthens the capacity of local basic autarchic activity, since the electorate has other means to meet and respond to their communities, but also is a response to the process of decentralization of the competences of the municipalities for the parish. It is also fair and appropriate to say that this measure also underscores the importance of the fregetical boards in what their work is with the populations, as we have also seen in the pandemic, since support for people isolated in general confinements, as well as in simple processes, in which people go to the fregetical board asking for support to download the application of the digital certificate. from our point of view, this is a fundamental measure, which is supported by the State budget and which therefore comes to the meeting of some measures that have been taken over the years and which also dignify and value the local base power of the freghey boards. I recall that recently in the State Budget for 2020, we adopted a measure that allows the authorships of the parish boards that are in mid-time to be able to discount for social security, something that was not possible. This is worthy of the role of the parish board author, as well as the review of the Local Finance Act, which again placed the budgets of the parish board in compliance with the Local Finance Act. This is also to remember and welcome again in what has been the action of the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u26	Accumulating the time left for you from the previous intervention with the closing time, you again have the floor, for the closure of this debate, the Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration, Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, in response to Mrs Isura Morais, I would say that anyone who would hear her would think that this bill applies only to the authorships of the Socialist Party. But no, it applies to all the autarchs: to the elect, to the new elect, to the former, therefore, I do not understand very well this perspective. [[P.S.'s applause.]] By the way, I would like to say that this is a fair measure and a measure which should not convene considerations of any other kind here. It is fair, it is correct, it is a step that reinforces the response to populations and territories and that is why and because of its intrinsic value that we are all here, I believe. Then I would also like to mention, either by Mrs Paula Santos, or by what I think was also said by Mrs Bebiana Cunha and now by Mr Pedro Morais Soares, who, of course, has the possibility of correctness in the specialty which has to do with the extension of the possibility of full-time employment under the conditions of Article 27. the, i.e. under conditions in which it is supported by the parish and in accordance with the rules of financial sustainability that are there, because of course, we have nothing to oppose, clarifying until only half is that it will be supported by the parish, because the other half will not fail to be supported by the State budget, since it is framed in these conditions. I would like to remind you of two very simple things about what has been said here regarding support for the authorities in general, and now, specifically, for the parish, for the absolutely central and irreplaceable role they had not only in the pandemic, but all the role they have played in the territory. First, the State budget of 2021, which is in force, has an increase of 7 % in transfers to local authorities and that of 2020 had an increase of 10 % in transfers to local authorities. Secondly, the first laws which have adopted, on a proposal from the Government, exceptional measures for the authorities in the context of the fight against the pandemic, date — see! — 6 and 10 April 2020. This was the speed with which the Government, with its proposals, and this House, with its approval, responded by adopting exceptional measures, which have been very justified and very fair, to support local authorities and which have also enabled local authorities to support their populations. Therefore, I would say that, in the framework where we are moving, in which we all agree, or at least apparently, here an agreement has been reached that this is a fair measure, it is a measure that is justified, both for the electors themselves and for the populations for which they work so hard, I believe that there would be conditions to be approved quickly and thus be financially contemplated already in the Budget for 2022. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u28	At the end of this debate, we move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 272 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Need to resume the requalification works of the High School John of Barros, Corroios, 668 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently resume the rehabilitation of the secondary school of the Sertan High School Assembly, of the municipality of Sertan, district of Castelo Branco, 671 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently promote the rehabilitation of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz, of the municipality of Ovar, Aveiro district, 692 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently promote the expansion and rehabilitation of the Secondary School of Port of Mós of the Grouping of Port of Mós, of this same municipality, Leiria district, 702 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the Basic School 2, 3 July Brandão, in Vila Nova de Famalíão, 722 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently promote the expansion and rehabilitation of Raul Proença Secondary School, Raul Proença School Group, Queen's Caldas Town Hall, Leiria District, 738 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the secondary school building of Póvoa de Lannoso, 747 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation of Secondary School 3 Camilo Castelo Branco in Vila Real, 750 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently promote the retraining of the Arganil Secondary School, 872 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent and immediate retraining of the EB School building 2, 3 / S Pedro Ferreiro in Ferreira do Zêzere, 885 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Recommendation to the Government for the re-qualification of the Basic School 2, 3 and Pedro Ferreiro Secondary School, in Ferreira do Zêzere, 290 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures for the urgent completion of the works of the John de Barros High School, 343 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government urgently requalify the School EB 2, 3 Mário de Sá Carneiro, in the municipality of Loures, and disclose the schedule of asbestos fiber removal interventions in school equipment 684 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 259 / 2018 and requalify the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz, in Ovar, 694 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government ensure that the re-qualification works of the High School of the Sertã are resumed urgently, 708 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — By the urgent rehabilitation of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz ( Ovar ), 710 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — For the urgent re-qualification of the secondary school of Sertan, 721 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government urgently, programme, agenda and carry out the necessary works for the expansion and requalification of the secondary school of Porto de Mos, 736 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government programme retraining works in Raul Proença secondary school in the Queen's Caldas, 737 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government requalify the Basic School 2, 3 July Brandão, Vila Nova de Famalíão, 749 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 257 / 2018 and requalify the Secondary School of Póvoa de Lannoso, 766 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government to carry out works at High School 3 Camilo Castelo Branco, Vila Real, 874 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to the immediate requalification of the Basic School 2, 3 and Secondary Pedro Ferreiro, de Ferreira do Zêzere, 991 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the necessary works at Raul Proença High School in the Queen's Horses, 1028 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the completion of the requalification works of the High School of Sertan, 1237 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the Camilo High School White Castle of Vila Real, 1274 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Modernization and requalification of the Camilo Castelo Branco High School in Vila Real. You have the floor for the presentation of the PSD initiatives, Mr Firmino Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD brings 10 draft resolutions to plenary which correspond to nearly 10 000 warning calls of children and young people attending public school in the municipalities of Vila Real, Póvoa de Lannoso, Famalíão, Ovar, Arganil, Sertã, Porto de Mós, Ferreira do Zêzere, Caldas da Rainha and Seixal, which unfortunately could be joined by so many other municipalities. The territorial dispersion goes from north to south, from the coast to the interior, covering, in this sad luck, small, medium or large councils, endowed with more or less resources, but in which there is a common denominator: the fact that all the government is dealing with the same disarray, setting up a choreography of meetings between the respective Presidents of the House and the Secretary of State, bureaucratizing the situation. What did we check? Only one vessel of documents and requests for information, always with an incomprehensible departure from the Minister of Protection. in this novel, we know the brochure of the promised money and that they are never disactivated by the Minister of Finance, thus preventing the work of the projects necessary for the launch of their contests. This is the reason why it is reflected in the fact that, when the prices are released, prices are so out of proportion to the market costs that competitions and their effect are empty, and only this intention to give reason to the people, when they say it was « to see». For what diagnoses, maps drawn up, creating computer applications where intervention priorities are included, making visits and undertaking commitments if nothing seems to result? One certainty remains: that all these schools did not have the care due by the Ministry of Education, not benefiting over the years from the necessary maintenance, thus making it difficult for many students and for the school community their frequency, and that is, the record of the poor learning conditions they provide. The meshes caused by the passage of time, the failures in the adaptability of buildings, preventing access to some spaces to students with reduced mobility, failure to comply with hygiene rules with degraded sanitary facilities, kitchens with broken equipment waiting, without hope, their replacement, for no longer supporting any more repairs, facilities difficult to hygiene, problems of insanity, lack of reception spaces and conditional conditions, the inadequacy and poor state of water networks, electricity, gas, anachronic data networks or even non-existent are a negative mark in these equipment. We thus conclude the absence and total failure of integrated intervention programmes. Despite the government's propaganda, what has been done in schools has almost exclusively been within the framework of the Programme for the Removal of Asbestos, recognizing the efforts of the municipalities in this task. Apart from this, only timely and minimalist interventions by the Ministry of Education remain. These are the schools, and in this state, that the Ministry intends to move to the municipalities. The abandonment to which these schools have been voted implies that many teachers, technical and operational assistants work undeniably, but under unpleasant conditions. These are situations that also undermine the safety of the communities they serve. These, and others under the same conditions, are schools where, despite all the efforts of teachers, the staff of educational action, the autarchs, the educational communities, sometimes overcome the despondent, when they live cold winter days, in which students and teachers have to be of gloves and caps, or when, in the opposite sense, with days of heat incl, they suffer deep discomfort. All these schools are over 30 years old, have degraded conditions or recommend urgent intervention so that they do not reach this state, but unfortunately this situation repeats itself from Mininho to Algarve. The abandonment to which schools were voted by the Ministry of Education, but also by the School Park is not compatible with the design of a quality public school, so propelled by the government. When even the Minister of Infrastructure complains of the difficulties in cabimentation of money to make trains roll in the lanes, we imagine the agrarians of the daily lives of the communities and of the principals of the secondary schools São João de Barros, in Corroios, Sertã, de Esmoriz, de Porto de Mós, Raul Proença, da Caldas da Rainha, da Póvoa de Lannoso, de Pedro Ferreiro, en Ferreira do Zêzere, or de Escola Secundaria de Arganil, to which so many others join. Only a minimum of comfort is required for students and teachers in classrooms, also ensuring the functionality of sanitary facilities, kitchens that ensure the provision of meals or the effectiveness of electric frames, which, after all, have a right to quality and safety. We can go back 17 centuries to collect proper learning; concluding, and quoting St. Augustine, I would say that "hope has two beautiful daughters, indignation and courage. Infuriation teaches us not to accept things as they are, the courage to change them». To conclude, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what is required of those who rule us, just that! [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u30	You have the floor to present your draft resolution and to participate in the debate, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If making politics is essentially making choices, then it is clear that the government has chosen to leave education behind, because it is understood that we are discussing dozens of projects, of almost all the Hemicycle parties, to recommend to the government to do requalification works in schools. The government fills its mouth with the importance of education, but fails to guarantee the most basic right to education. The government, for example, choosing to bury EUR 4 billion in TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), is in fact choosing to leave thousands of students, especially within the country, in schools falling apart, without air conditioning, without hygiene, without technology. And numerous competitions that remain desert also indicate that, in this matter, the government is counting on the coughs. The chance of schools, by the way, is that they don't have planes. But there's more. Some of these schools are in territories where there are no alternatives, whether private or cooperative, but, where there are these alternatives, we have to ask ourselves whether it is worth spending money on a public infrastructure when there are alternatives that the Minister of Education himself has already admitted to having an average cost per student below public education. So here we have a situation in which if the state paid students to private school they would all go out to win. The state — that is, all of us — would pay less and in many cases students would have better education. The conclusion is only one: through ideological blindness, the government has chosen to leave education behind. Well the government can brag about increasing the Ministry of Education's budget every year, but, as you can see, what increases is the Ministry's budget, it's not the education budget. It remained behind, limiting the opportunities for growth of a whole generation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u33	Mr Alexandra Vieira of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Block on the Left considers that the rehabilitation of the school building, which is still about to be carried out at different points in the country, is an urgent matter not only when we think about public school, but also about territorial cohesion and the civilization issue. In fact, it is not understood that the flags of equality, equity, inclusion and citizenship are lit up and there are schools that do not even offer the conditions for learning and teaching. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u35	The argument of demographic breakdown has justified, more than 10 years ago, the massive closure of schools that are currently being needed when thinking about the creation of childcare centres. The argument hides another, the economist: fewer schools, fewer teachers, less educators, less educational action assistants, less technicians and therapists, so less costs with public school and education. Thus, identified the schools to be slaughtered, it was protected until infinitely its rehabilitation. For the Left Block, rehabilitating schools and stopping educational establishments is not expensed. It is, yes, investment in the future of the country and in public school, an investment that contributes to the establishment of the population and to the guarantee of access to public school and education throughout Portuguese territory, in the perspective of territorial cohesion and the right to education. Can the State be dependent on the Community funds or download in the few funds available to municipalities to rehabilitate the school building? It may, but not exclusively, under the penalty of serious situations become eternal, as is the case of the schools João de Barros, in the Sixtal, for 10 years to function in containers rented by the School Park, or of the School Frei Caetano Brandão, in Braga, to require works of improvement in terms of energy efficiency and acoustics, among others. in the latter case, the Minister of Education himself has already publicly said that rehabilitation is in charge of the municipality, which claims not to have enough money. The point brought to the debate today reflects the high number of schools in need of intervention, but we cannot help but remember that nothing has been done in the PSD governments. In fact, there was even a continuity in the Azafama to close schools, which is proof of the creation by the PSD Government of mega-groupings, which no longer did but remove autonomy, identity and demand capacity to schools, grouped by force. The Left Block defends that schools are public service and it is increasingly required that they have a social component, given the long or undiscovered schedules of parents and mothers with school schedules. Today we know that neither the closure of the vast majority of schools was justified nor the major rehabilitation works done in the first decade of this century covered all establishments. In addition, these equipment are cultural goods that can be made available to the people, including their libraries, auditoriums, computer rooms and sports pavilions, allowing to recover the literacy of adults and improve their qualifications, which, in the nebula times in which we live, is even a question of citizenship. For all these reasons, BE presented this project and will vote in favour of the rest. However, we say again: while looking at the requalification of schools as expenditure and not as investment, the problem will be eternal, exacerbating inequalities, implying loss of equity and exclusion and penalizing, year after year, students, students and all the people who work in schools. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u36	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fact that 27 proposals from different parties around a common theme, which repeats each year, are under discussion at this second item of the agenda reflects the reality of many of our schools where our students and educational agents are daily. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the truth is that, from north to south of the country, from the coast to the interior, we repeat the problems of lack of conditions for educational practices: improvised spaces, often indicated as temporary but that of temporary times they become permanent; dispersion of spaces that prevent integration; lack of security; insecurity; thermal problems; bad electrical conditions; lack of resources, whether physical, human or material. What we are discussing today exemplifies the many problems identified and this scenario, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it makes clear the marks of continued de-investment in education policies and the lack of government priority in this area. It is a reality that, basically, it should make us all reflect on the mission of education, because a government that does not care for its educational communities, a government that does not exceed the needs of these same communities and that does not try to solve these problems is a government that threatens the well-being of our children and our young people, who devalues the role of educational agents, who questions the quality of public school and who compromises the future. When parents, mothers, representative associations and civil movements concentrate on solving these problems and still nothing happens, there is indeed a failure of the government in its mission to protect, care and guarantee the quality of education in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it will be rare the day this House does not receive an e-mail from educational professionals to note their concerns, either with the lack of appreciation, or with their working conditions. There are many and many who have to work in temporary, dispersed spaces, with degraded structures, subject to cold or heat, eventually, sometimes even without security. We continue with a reduced ratio of adults per child and, of course, this also brings serious problems and consequences, until we continue with a paradigm of acting more on the remedy than on prevention. It is necessary to change this culture and invest in the quality of school structures and also in the prevention of emerging problems. I could even bring here a problem that we are all familiar with, which is the problem of bullying, in which investment in prevention is fundamental. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are banknote rankings, but there are no rankings for investments in education and school equipment. We have teachers and professionals of excellence, we have families and educational communities of excellence, but we do not have excellent practices of the Ministry of Education regarding the resolution of these problems, now identified and discussed. For example, the Basic School 2, 3 Má Má Carneiro, in Loures County, has asked the Ministry of Education to resolve a series of structural problems, including through the National Programme for the Removal of Asbestos of Schools (PNRAE). The question we have left, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, after all, when will the timetable for the removal of these potentially dangerous materials actually happen? When will he be fulfilled, as a whole? Indeed, we need more transparency in meeting this same timetable and action plan, which has been announced by the government and postponed forever. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u38	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing the re-qualification of schools spread a little across the country, an old subject with extensive work, the result of the de-investment of years in education, especially in the hiring of human resources, teachers and technicians. If most important is the quality and quantity of professionals who can value work with students, their intellectual and physical development, we cannot dissociate all this effort from the school communities from the physical conditions each school has. The Greens present three requalification resolution projects: the Escola Secundário de Esmoriz, in Ovar, the Escola Secundário Camilo Castelo Branco, in Vila Real, and the Escola Secundário da Sertã, schools that have had sporadic interventions that serve only as palliatives so that students in these regions will not be abandoned and to guarantee the right to education. The difficulties these school communities face every new school year are very similar. And every school year, the promises that such urgent works will be carried out are no more than promises. Yesterday we discussed the problems of the new school year, which are repeated, despite the fear of the pandemic and the promise of strengthening funds for education. Thus, what is under discussion in this debate is the schools in the center and north of the country with serious failures in energy efficiency, with the drawers of the windows that do not allow thermal comfort, so important for good work within the classrooms. And, no, ladies and gentlemen. Members, blankets and blankets did not reach schools with the pandemic and the rules of airing. They are schools with bad ventilation conditions in the bars and canteens, with unconditional bathrooms, without means for true hygiene and safety, with equipment for sports practice without ventilated balnearies, with very exiguous spaces and even with lack of conditions in the outdoor spaces, which do not allow socialization, play safe and even travel housed between buildings, both in summer and in winter. With regard to content acquisition, students also lose and teachers have to help themselves with creativity. Only with the commitment of everyone is explained that they present positive results in these schools, despite these difficulties: workshops that do not allow new teaching and learning methods to be put into practice, rooms that do not allow the use of technologies, laboratories with obsolete materials and classrooms that do not involve, safely and with learning conditions, the high number of students per class. Reading the bills or listening to these difficulties does not have the same impact as knowing these spaces and feeling how these public schools, which house more than 2000 students, live on a daily basis the unequal way they have access to content, learning materials, sports. All these difficulties are jeopardizing the right to compulsory education. There is an urgent need for the rehabilitation of these buildings and outer spaces, which are essential for the realization of the right to education, providing dignified conditions for the entire school community, and we want Parliament's broad recognition of the urgency of these interventions. The Greens believe that the Government cannot continue to ignore these and many other situations throughout the country in this legislature and must guarantee dignified and security conditions for these school communities.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u40	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sara Velez has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We discussed two draft resolutions submitted by the Socialist Party on the requalification of schools and I will focus on my intervention on the Raul Proença High School. The public school, its defense and the strengthening of its role as an instrument of social mobility and of combating inequalities are heritages of the Republic that the governance of the PS has always been honored and developed in its action. It is on this path that, among other investments, the government has been betting on the requalification of the school park, modernising it and guaranteeing the material conditions for the educational activity to carry out its mission. In the State budget for 2021, this same commitment is made to requalify basic and secondary schools in a model of co-financing, through structural funds and in partnership with municipalities, as well as to bet on more ecological schools, investing in environmentally sustainable and efficient solutions from an energy point of view and comfort. This work, which has been done by the government, has thus allowed many schools to be modernised and re-qualified. However, despite this effort, there are situations that still remain to be resolved, as is the case with the Raul Proença High School, in the Queen's Caldas, which has not been the target of any background work since practically its construction for 40 years. The needs are many, the result of the wear of time, and the school presents various and serious problems in the different buildings that require urgent intervention. The Raul Proença High School holds an educational project that is, in fact, recognized and very well classified by the different evaluation rankings and therefore its requalification is a priority. Thus, this school was well identified as a priority intervention school through the management system of schools. We know that the Government has already come into contact with the municipality of Caldas da Rainha, as part of the information process and provision provided for in the legal diploma of the framework law on decentralization of competences. And we have also recently learned from a response that the Government has given to members of the Socialist Party elected by Leiria, that the Government is committed to creating a source of funding that will allow quickly to deal with the works that are necessary in this school. We therefore recommend that the Government, in close cooperation with the municipality of Caldas da Rainha, define an intervention programme for the requalification and modernization of the Raul Proença Secondary School. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u42	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss several projects on the need for retraining and expansion works in a set of schools in our country. In fact, we have identified that, from north to south, there are a number of schools whose facilities, already with many years of use, are degraded and that, over all these years, they have not been the target of requalification, conservation and maintenance interventions to ensure to their communities — teachers, workers, students, technicians — the right conditions for both work and for the successful learning of students, which also introduces a factor of inequality and which is a major injustice. The situation in which the school park in our country is responsible and it is important, in this debate, to identify that over the decades successive governments of the PS, the PSD and the CDS have not made the necessary investment so that schools are not in the state they are in today. There was a de-investment in public school, which translates into what is in sight: inadequate facilities, without climate conditions, with infiltrations, humiditys and which do not guarantee the appropriate conditions for the teaching and learning process. We could also extend our considerations to degraded outer space, to infrastructure networks that should be replaced, to spaces for physical education that do not meet needs, etc. In fact, we could continue here to identify a set of infrastructures that several schools in our country do not have in order to be able to ensure the right conditions for what we believe should have a public school. The public school must be valued, its professionals, its workers and their facilities must be valued, in order to enable the proper development of curricula and the promotion of school success among students. For example, one of the situations that has long been identified in many schools in our country is the lack of a sports flag and this is an aspect that awaits the Government's response so that many schools can be equipped with this important equipment. We also know the realities of several schools in which the small interventions that have been made have been done - it has been because of the efforts of their leadership, using the private budgets, but we all know that this is not the solution to the needs and, of course, to solve structural problems when, over the decades, there has been no intervention at this level. We also wanted to say that it is unacceptable for the government, instead of being concerned about making investments in schools that are their responsibility, and we are talking about schools of the two. o is 3. the cycles and schools of secondary education—are more concerned about transferring these charges to the authorities. The government cannot take responsibility for what is essential. We are talking about schools that are their responsibility and that require intervention and not this transfer of charges to the authorities, because we know very well that — in fact, it was this perspective that was also agreed with the PSD in the so-called law of decentralization of competences, which in practice is a transfer of charges — the means and conditions for the implementation of these powers are not guaranteed. That is why it is a profound deresponsibility, unacceptable, and it is a pressure on the authorities to do what the governments have not done over the decades. in this discussion, I would also like to mention some of the aspects for which we have presented draft resolutions for the completion of the works, particularly at the Sertan High School, a school that is operating under conditions that are not appropriate and that require that answer. About the High School João de Barros, I remember that the works stopped at the time of the PSD / CDS government, leaving the school in an authentic yard, and so on, because the works were resumed, much because of the struggle of the educational community and the authorities of the Seixal council that were on the front line in the struggle for this realization. The truth is, over a decade, this school has been left in an unacceptable situation. We can also talk about the school EB 2, 3 Mário de Sá Carneiro in which the advances that have been recorded result from the struggle of the educational community and the intervention of the City Hall of Loures, which allowed to solve the problem of asbestos in this school, but whose works require completion. We can also talk about the Basic School 2, 3 July Brandão, in Vila Nova de Famalicão...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u44	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u45	I shall conclude, Mr President. We can also speak of the Basic School 2, 3 Julio Brandão, in Vila Nova de Famalicão, where there is a huge degradation of the facilities, which are without conditions, and of all the other schools that were brought to debate, and many and many more could bring here. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say the following: the essential message we want to leave in this debate is that investment in public school is fundamental. Investment in facilities to improve conditions and investment in the enhancement of their professionals is essential to ensure the quality of teaching-learning and to ensure the universal right to education. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u46	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discussed 27 draft resolutions, six of them from the CDS, recommending, as mentioned here, works in several schools in the north and center of the country. The basic schools and secondary schools are, in many cases, reaching the end of their useful life, 30 to 40 years, and therefore, although they have been done punctually, maintenance works and also, as has already been said, removal of asbestos, the truth is that this is not enough to keep them in condition. We know that the stones don't teach, but we also know that it rains inside the classroom, if there are no gyms, if there are no labs, if there's cold, learning can't happen. Therefore, understanding that the works cannot be done in the entire school park only once, a much higher speed is needed in what has been done here and, above all, a mapping and action plan that does not depend on the party of the author, the existence of a television camera or a petition full of signatures, but leaves, yes, a fair weighting of the effective needs on the ground. The CDS will therefore monitor all these draft resolutions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, since this is my last speech in plenary, if the President of the Assembly of the Republic will allow me, I would like to give you a few words. The first, more personal, have to do with what has come to my memory in recent times, in recent weeks, and which are contained in a book, which is very important to me, and which says — I will paraphrase — more or less, this: "I have fought a good fight, I have completed the task and I have kept hope. Do not keep on seeking. ” I think this is a good reflection of the state of mind in which I am now. I think yes, that I have fought a good fight, with all my, many, limitations, but also with my commitment and my integrity. I think so, that I've completed the task or at least completed it now. And, I think so, I hope to keep this hope and this concern that brought me here somewhere else I go. Of course, this fight is not done alone and therefore I would like to thank you in particular — and I hope you understand — to my parliamentary group for everything, to the honourable Members. Telmo Correia, Cecília Meireles, João Almeida and Pedro Morais Soares and all the others who have followed me over these six years, and of course all those who work in the CSD Parliamentary Group that make it possible to have this fight. Neither can I, and forgive-CL-I, not fail to leave a word for Dr. Paulo Portas, who is responsible for bringing me here. There he saw anything that made sense and put me on the lists and it was thanks to him that I could have the privilege of performing this function. Finally, I recover today what I felt on the first day that I entered this Chamber: the weight of history, the echo of the words that were said here throughout the ages and which marked the direction of history in various ways. I look at these figures that accompany us here and look at us—the truth, the Eloquency, the Constitution and the Justice—and now, not as a Member, but as a citizen, my new condition, my prevailing condition, what I ask you to realize is this potential of representation of citizens, citizens like me, who incarnate and respect the stature of this institution, whenever they can, dignifying it. To all, to the many friends I have made here, to so many people with whom I meet, to so many institutions, to the citizens I represent, or to this day, I am directing my deep democratic respect and a huge thanks for these six years. Thank you very much. [[Congrats from the CDS-PP, PS, PSD and MP not registered Cristina Rodrigues standing, and BE, CH and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u48	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, as I have already had the opportunity to convey to her, I am very sorry for her decision, that she obviously could not do anything else, but when she renounces a mandate as a Member it is for very strong, imperative reasons, whether political or personal. But whatever the reasons for this, the honourable Member is going to miss us very much here, because she has always been very professional and very qualified in her speeches in defense of her bench and has always also had a very tight relationship with all the Members of this House, of all the parliamentary groups, from left to right, and also with the President of the Assembly of the Republic, who has always appreciated her attitude, her humor, her smile that we will all miss very much. The greatest happiness is the only thing I can wish for you. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations from PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CH and MP not registered Cristina Rodrigues.]] Mr Francisco Rocha now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin with a very special greeting to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa. I will talk about Resolution Project No. 1237 / XIV / 2. the, which deals with requalification of the Camilo Castelo Branco High School, in Vila Real, and which aims to be a underlined, a strengthened request addressed to the Government to prioritize this intervention, which was interrupted by the PSD / CDS government. What, then, are the five main reasons for this urgency? The first has to do with the scarcity and antiquity of its facilities, which requires the use of a provisional structure that has been in operation since 1978, a precarious solution that allows the entire educational community that this secondary school has, which I also take advantage of to greet. The second reason has to do with its excellent educational project, which, despite all the limitations of its facilities, puts at the disposal of the community an extended and diversified educational offer. The third reason has to do with its privileged insertion into the historic area of Vila Real, which is essential in the balance of the city, in its dynamics, in terms of flows and economic activity, and in its role in preventing the emptying of urban centers. The fourth reason has to do with the urgent need for this school to be equipped with means and resources to meet the new challenges that times require, for example, the existence of a sports pavilion, a modern school canteen and to add to the built-up more sustainable and efficient solutions from the energy point of view and thermal and acoustic comfort. The fifth and final reason has to do with the excellent example that was the recent and remarkable recovery of the São Pedro High School, the result of a virtuous financing model, through European funds, distributed between the Government and the City Council of Vila Real and which can and should be replicated in this school. Therefore, it is now time to move quickly to requalify the Camilo Castle White High School, in Vila Real, to move forward to requalify the Morgado High School of Mateus. That's why it's time to move on! That's why it's time to get back the wasted time! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u50	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u51	Mr President, before spending a few seconds on the debate, I would like to say to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, for the years that we have been sharing the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport, that democracy is not the realm of unanimity, that democracy is the kingdom of difference, plurality and diversity. I think you have exercised very well the defense of your positions, maintaining the elevation, the preparation, the education, the respect that corresponds to those who defend your ideas without attacking the people on the other side. Thank you so much for that! [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We have had difficult times over these years, but it has been worth it for democracy. As far as the draft resolutions we are debating today are concerned, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would like to say, with all clarity, that we always think that more is needed in terms of modernising the building, but we must also say that in the projects we have here there are very different situations. There are projects that are under way, there are processes that have been interrupted by problems with contractors, by contests that have remained deserts—only those who do not do so do not face these situations—and also there are schools that have been pre-arranged in favour of other schools, by preferences of the autoarchs in the inter-municipal communities, some of which say that they want a requalified school and not that one, but then complain that the government does not do this and that the government does not do that. Therefore, the building does not deteriorate in three, four, five or six years. There is indeed a way to go, but, curiously, many of the proponents of some of these draft resolutions were those whose government suspended the school works. They do not always apologize to the troika, because whoever suspended the works was the same government that, in the shadow of the troika and with the apology of the troika, cut upwards of EUR 1200 million in education, in addition to what was foreseen in the Memorandum of Understanding.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u52	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u53	So, let's all go ahead, we have to keep modernizing the building, but it's not worth hiding the past, nor is it worth considering. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u54	For an intervention, Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u55	Mr President, with regard to the draft resolutions under discussion, it is easy to admit that this list is a mere sample of the deplorable state in which the Portuguese school park is located. If we add to this yesterday's picture by Mrs Alma Rivera and, moreover, the diagnosis of the IAVE (Instituto de Evaluación Educação educativa ) of January this year, and the TIMSS ( Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study ) of last year, worrying as a portrait of public education in Portugal, we are left unaware that it served the brutal increase of more than 30% of the average annual expenditure per student, candidly confessed by Mr. Minister of Education, in his interview to Lusa. How far will this cost go, after the numerous deficiencies still detected in the school park, for example, and not only? Until 7000, at 8000, at 9000? This is the issue on which we must address ourselves, think and act — who can act and who will have to act.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u56	We have thus reached the end of this item on our agenda. We will enter the third point, which consists in the general assessment of Law Projects Nos. 919 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Sets limits on the advertising of games and bets (Tenth sixth amendment to the Advertising Code, approved by Decree-Law No 330 / 90 of 23 October ), 343 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Sets restrictions on advertising in games and bets ( tenth amendment to the Advertising Code, approved by Decree-Law No 330 / 90 of 23 October ), 951 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the Advertising Code in order to make the warning of the potential to describe dependence in social games such as Euromillions, raspadins, tototabola / totoloto and lotarias, and 952 / XIV/ 3. a (PAN) — Limits advertising to games and bets and approves consumer protection measures and promotion of literacy on the risks associated with the game, making the tenth amendment to the Advertising Code, approved by Decree-Law No 330 / 90 of 23 October. Let us then open the debate with Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Advertising Code states that, and I quote, "the advertising of games and bets should be carried out socially responsible, respecting the protection of minors, as well as other vulnerable and risk groups, not appealing to aspects associated with the easy achievement of a gain, not suggesting success, social success or special fitness as a result of the game". I'd like everyone and everyone to try to do the simple exercise of thinking if this rule is actually being met. How many times have we heard messages like « Fill-in-the-paper », « Register and bet without risk », « Creating eccentric every day », « Easy, cheap and gives millions », which is the best known? How many times do we also remember the most varied instant lottery, the raspadins, with super-appelative colors, not rarely with the name « luck» : « The Spider of Luck», « The Great Luck», « The Strike of Luck», « The Darkness of Luck» and so on. Every day — on television, on the street, on cafés, on kiosks, on the CTT (Emails and Telecommunications of Portugal) at sporting events — we are bombarded with publicity to various types of games. So clearly, the purpose I mentioned at the beginning has not been fulfilled. Therefore, we bring this bill in which we propose to establish restrictions on the advertising of games and bets, impose time limits on the transmission of advertising, regardless of the support used for its dissemination. thus, we give force of law to what has been understood as only a recommendation, in the self-regulation agreement of the sector, and extend the restrictions to online format, which entails increased risks and is in free growth, driven by the pandemic as well. The data from the Game Control and Inspection Service tell us that online gaming revenues increased from 70 million euros in the first quarter of 2020 to 128 million euros in the first quarter of 2021. We're talking about the biggest annual increase, since there's statistics on online gaming revenue. Already in the number of new players registered, the increase was 109 % compared to the same period, i.e. more than 329 000 new player records. But we want to go further as far as the other projects are concerned, we want to respond to social problems caused by instant lottery, that is, scraps. We are talking about a type of game that was created to be immediate, cheap and accessible and therefore extremely addictive. Let's look at the numbers: in 2018, the values amounted to 1594 million euros in scraps sold, which represents 160 € per person per year. If we compare with Spain, for example, the amount spent was 627 million, i.e. €14 per person, on average, per year — the difference is significant. In 2019, this value increased again to EUR 1718 million. Moreover, this is a game that has, and I quote, « characteristics that favor the establishment of problematic or pathological gambling behavior», according to researchers from the University of Minho. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, therefore, we cannot continue to ignore the specific reality of the instant lottery. In the characterization of scrapers, the National Survey on Psychoactive Substances Consumption in the General Population, published by SICAD (Intervention Service in Additive Behaviors and Dependencies), reveals that more than half of the scrapers are women, between 35 and 54 years old, with relatively low qualifications and relatively low incomes. But the consumption of scraps also occurs, with a particular incidence, in the segments of the older population, in particular among pensioners and pensioners who, when raising their reform in the TTCs, have several scraps at their disposal. Therefore, data are worrying because we speak of a potential for addition, with the respective consequences from the mental health point of view, but also with a direct impact on the income of families. As a proposal, we also present a set of comprehensive and balanced measures aimed at mitigating the demand for such products. These measures have integrated the draft resolution which we have also submitted to this Parliament and is in committee. That is why we consider it to be elementary to look at what has already been done with other substances with potential to add over the last decades in Portugal. in this bill that we discussed today, we are not innovating, we are using methods that proved to have helped to solve the problem. Advertising is central to the disincentive seeking such products. We hope, with this debate, that Parliament will actually be able to work together in this area. That is our purpose. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u58	Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today brings the debate to a bill that aims to establish restrictions on advertising of games and bets, as a form of disincentive to the game by players. We believe that this is a measure that can help eliminate the stimuli of players and protect and safeguard their mental health. In 2014, when the legalization of the game and online bets was approved, the PSD / CDS-PP government was in operation. The legal regime of games and online bets was created and advertising of games and bets in any communication body was then made possible and the sale of more than 250 m of schools. At the time that this scheme was approved, the CFP clearly alerted us to this issue, expressing our doubts and concerns with this amendment of the Advertising Code and with what could mean from the point of view of the non-protection of people who depend on the game. It is true that there was a legislative void in relation to online gambling and betting, but this amendment created a more permissive regime, in which incentives and incentives for online gambling and betting are possible, which was an added cause of concern, when the negative consequences of gambling dependence are identified. In fact, the fact is that, at this time of the epidemic that led to the confinement, there were several elements and signs on the consequences of this matter. This is a reality that is, in fact, an added concern, due to the existence of more incentives for games and betting, with the associated risks of causing dependence. For people who depend on the game and for the most vulnerable people, the ease of access to games and online betting is extremely harmful and can be an aspect that contributes to the worsening of the dependency and to the increase of the dependency of the game in the general population. There is still much, because of knowing and systematizing about the reality of the game in our country, but in the SICAD document entitled Technical Guidance Lines for Intervention in Addiction in Addiction and Addictions Without Substances — The Game Disorder, some elements are already being mentioned: « the prevalence of gambling to money in Portugal is 65, 7 %, being higher in the male gender, and between 35 and 44 years old; about one third of the population does not practice any of the types of games stated» — totobola, totoloto, lottery, card games between friends or acquaintances, gambling between friends or acquaintances, games of gambling in salons, scrapping, euromillions, data games, games of expertise, sports games. Citing back to the study: « Although two thirds practice or have ever practiced any game, (24, 4 % play or played only one type of game, 16 % play two types of game and 10 % play three types of game) », I believe that these data reveal well, in fact, the concerns that we bring about today’s debate on this issue, so we brought this proposal. Of course, we are available to find solutions that effectively enable us to achieve the goal, that is, to reduce people's stimuli about gambling and betting. Finally, I would also like to add the following: we follow the concerns about instant lottery, in particular raisins. In fact, data, which are public, on this matter are worrying. In the SICAD survey, it is said that between 2012 and 2017 the prevalence of raspberry increased from 24, 4 % to 30 %, from third to second game to money used by more people in Portugal. Both those who play in the scratch, as well as those who don't play, have increased the prevalence of abusive game. In the case of those who do not play in the raspadina, the prevalence of the pathological game has also increased. I believe that these elements reveal concern about these matters. As I said on the part of the CFP, there will be availability to find solutions that will allow, in this particular case, to address this concern about mental health in relation to the population of our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u60	For an intervention, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is the country of Europe where more money is spent on raisins per capita, i.e. this value corresponds to more than twice the European average. The Portuguese have spent almost EUR 1, EUR 6 billion on scraps, which gives an average of EUR 4, EUR 4 million per day, as opposed to Spain in which 600 million was spent in the same year. It is also concluded that there was a substantial increase in comparison with data for the year 2010, in which EUR 100 million was spent in this game. SICAD, between 2016 and 2017, found that around 50 % of men resort to these games and 45 % of women too. According to Francisco Assisi, who presides over the Economic and Social Council ( CES ), we are facing a very serious social problem and a very serious mental health problem that already affects a non-suspecting part of the Portuguese population. It is necessary to invest in prevention and, as such, we propose that it is only possible to advertise these types of games after 22 hours and 30 minutes and up to 7 hours, as it is proposed that, like tobacco packaging, the newsletters of these games should also have a warning that they are dependent on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u62	To present your bill and to intervene in the debate, Mr Nelson Silva has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is impossible that any of the Members present in this Chamber have never heard the slogan « Euromillions, creating eccentrics one day for the other» while via television or listening to radio was in the morning, afternoon or at the end of the day. It is also impossible that while they were surfing the Internet, whether in a playful or professional way, they did not cross with the pop-ups that say "And this Friday what would do with 130 million? » or « Become a semi-professional sun catcher: play in the little napkin and enable it to 2000 € per month for 12 years». Although none of us have children and young people in the family, it is impossible that they, while waiting to see on YouTube a video of a Minecraft tutorial, a music from Carolina Deslandes or Wuant channel, have not crossed with the ads, for example, of Betlic that tell them « Freebets : let go of what you win ». All these announcements have in common the fact that they refer to games and bets and, of course, the fact that they pass the message that this is a way in which you can make a lot of money with little and little time. The only warning these ads make comes with the famous "little letters" and is that they are indicated that these are games for more than 18 years, which is at least contradictory since the ads pass on television at a time when minors are watching and preview online content that is intended mostly for children and young people. This scenario cannot continue. Our country must recognize the existence of problems of addition associated with the game, which often make this activity a real clinical and social problem pathology. We cannot continue to blow aside when there are studies that tell us that we are the country of Europe where more per capita money is spent on scraps, more than twice the European average. It's time to put an end to a parliamentary taboo. This problem requires urgent measures, particularly at the level of advertising, requires more study and knowledge and, of course, more public debate. It is to promote this public debate in order to take measures to combat this scourge that the NAP is presenting today an initiative that puts on the table very concrete proposals. First, we want to know better about the problem of pathological game in the scraps, to understand some causes of the problem and thus fight them and prevent them. Therefore, we want the government to present a study next year on the impact and magnitude of the pathological game associated with raspadins, one of our biggest gambling problems, but where scientific studies are lacking. Secondly, since the additive problems associated with the game and betting in general and the impact of advertising on these problems are already known, we want to implement three measures of elementary common sense in the Advertising Code: the first step is by restricting advertising to gambling, television and radio games, between 7 hours and 22 hours and 30 minutes, so that there is no promotion of this activity in periods when the audience of children and young people is expected to be greater. The second is to reinforce consumer literature on the risks of the game and to ensure that advertisements for games and bets, in addition to warnings on age restrictions, are required to be accompanied by a warning on the risks of adding to the game and betting. The third is to establish that the advertising entities of games and betting on the Internet have to provide a mechanism allowing for the self-exclusion of their respective or potential recipients. What meaning does it make that someone can self-exclude from online gaming platforms as a player and cannot self-exclude from receiving advertising to these platforms? Third and last, we want to work on risk prevention and help to stop the idea of easy winning associated with the game. It is therefore proposed that there should be a code of conduct on information coverage of winnings in games and bets, a measure that follows good international examples of suicide. As I said at the beginning of my speech, this initiative is only the beginning of an important debate that we hope the other political forces will allow it to continue in the specialty. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u64	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Emídio Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Anyone who looks at today's agenda will think that we are discussing the Advertising Code. But if that doesn't seem to be the case. The theme of the limits to the advertising of games and online bets leads us to deeper reflections. Thanks to the legalization of the online game, today we already have numbers on it. It is estimated that the unregulated, illegal market represents almost half of the world of betting, but in good rigour until 2014 all betting were in that illegal market. We also know that over the past seven years, the number of registered players has gradually increased. That is why I say that we are now beginning to have data to analyze, study, so that we can intervene. I want to say with this that the limits on the advertising of games and bets cannot be the exclusive answer to what the numbers expressed in scientific studies show. We need to go further and understand why there are more and more Portuguese addicts in the game. And the numbers tell us that the incidence of additive behaviors has a very significant expression in the most disadvantaged sectors of the population. Between the first trimester of 2020 and the first trimester of 2021 almost 330 000 new player records have been reached! In this increase, 63 % of these new players are under 35 years old. The revenue of the online game in the first quarter of 2020 was around EUR 70 million. In the first quarter of 2021 it was already more than 128 million euros. The Santa Casa da Misericórdia of Lisbon, in 2019, spent 28, 5 million euros on advertising. Portugal spends, on average, EUR 4 million per day on scrapping — an average expenditure of € 160 per year compared to € 14 in Spain.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u66	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u67	In the online game are EUR 22 billion per day that are spent by the Portuguese, about EUR 900 thousand per hour. As a result of these numbers, Portuguese are increasingly asking for specialized help to combat gambling addiction. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as you can easily understand, with a simple amendment to the Advertising Code, we are shocked at the increase in the abuse and pathological game with consequences on the mental health of so many Portuguese people. SICAD already has a significant work in this area, either in the development of guidelines for intervention, either in the mid-term evaluation of the National Plan for the Reduction of Additive Behaviors and Dependencies, where it is already evidenced that the objectives set have not been met, and on the contrary. This same assessment noted the worsening situation of additive behaviour, particularly in the female population. In other words, the government already has many studies and evaluations on the topic of the impact of online gambling on people's lives. And what does the government do about this, in view of this reality? He throws himself a scrape to finance the recovery of the heritage!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u68	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u69	Sounds like a joke, but it's not! In the face of all the warning signs concerning scrapping and its impact on the increase in additive behaviors, particularly in more vulnerable segments of the population—according to Santa Casa da Misericórdia, 76, 6 % of the players of the scrapping are of the low and low middle class—the government creates another scrapping! Instead of investing in means and resources in the recovery of addicts, the Government takes a measure that will objectively increase the number of addicts. This can only come from a government that thinks no more than to raise money in everything possible and create revenue even if the mental health of Portuguese people is at risk. It's regrettable and unworthy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see and prove the problems go far beyond the amendment to the Advertising Code and we should not just put in this particular the resolution of these big and complex problems. The PSD believes that much should be done beyond the Advertising Code because it is not prohibiting advertising from 7 hours to 22 hours that fight the problems caused by the increase in the abuse and additive behaviours. It can help, but it is certainly not the only answer. This involves a wider intervention in prevention and the commitment to strengthening mental health resources. The Budget is at the door and that is where this can be played, not online but with the resources due and planned in the strategy to combat these problems, with consistency and with the help of good international practices in this area. This is the most important way to go. The rest is to be careful. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u72	Mr Filipe Pacheco, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss the game and advertising to the game and bets, but for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group this publicity must be made socially responsible, respecting and protecting vulnerable and risk groups, such as minors and people with additive behaviors, never appealing to the illusion of easy winnings or encouraging the game. However, if it is true that several projects that are under discussion seek to respond to some of these concerns, it is also true that they do so by confusing concepts and can often have an impact that may be the opposite of what they intend to resolve, not recognizing that this matter should be the subject of deep reflection and is quite delicate. First of all, it is important to remember that in Portugal the game is an activity reserved for the State, to which the games authorized, their operating arrangements and their regulations should be defined. And it is also important to remember that this is good! It is good that there is a legal game offer, so that the practice is controlled and safe, preventing the search from channeling itself to illegal game offers, which, yes, have no restrictions or are controlable. And many of them are posted online. Then it is also important to remember that the social games of the State are a great source of funding for the social policies of the State, in various areas such as health, social solidarity, education, sport, culture and even in preventing and combating addiction. Now, what these projects are talking about today is to restrict advertising to these games and legal bets through changes to the Advertising Code. Most projects support these changes by using an article by two researchers from the University of Minho that says that Portuguese players are the ones who in Europe spend the most on instant lottery and distinguish raspadins from the other games, because they mention having characteristics that favor the occurrence of additive and pathological behaviors. However, one of the things these researchers themselves also claim is that there are still no robust and sufficient scientific studies to support any kind of conclusion in our country. Even the DECO itself (Portuguese Consumer Defense Association), which presented an opinion on the projects that are under consideration, refers to the need for terms epidemiological studies that allow to understand the real dimension of the problem. So this is the context of what we are discussing here. However, if we look in detail, most projects affect almost exclusively the instant lottery, the so-called "racpadina", forgetting, for example, online sports betting. Some go right through this reality. However, although this scientific article states that raspadins have characteristics that favor additive behaviors, what we now have of existing scientific data does not allow us to conclude this. For example, it is true that the recipe for raspadina has risen a lot in recent years, but by analyzing the Santa Casa data, what we know is that there was an increase of the player population from 17 % in 2012 to 53 % in 2019. That is to say, it is evidence that there is a growth of the game and revenue, but it happens by increasing the player base and not by increasing per capita expenditure, this, yes, decisive to identify patterns of addition. Therefore, given this context, why, then, prohibit advertising exclusively in the instant lottery and not do the same in the other games? Even more, when the Holy House claims that it no longer does any publicity to the scrapper in the media. Why? Why solely to raspberry? Besides, we know, the lack of publicity, which is often not just disclosure, it is also information about what the game is, it may result in increased demand for illegal supply. Or why impose restrictions on advertising to companies based in Portugal, as the PCP project does, when we know that illegal gambling offers, especially online, come mainly from companies based in other countries than Portugal? Oh, my God! Why do we specify Portugal when the problem is much more comprehensive? Oh, my God! Would it not make more sense to clarify that advertising should be allowed only to entities that are legally entitled to explore games and bets in Portugal? Or even provide for counter-ordinations for illegal operators who act without a license? For the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group there are, of course, two evidences. The first is that we need more serious and in-depth studies that allow us to make an exhaustive diagnosis of game and betting patterns, their evolution over time and even the incidence of addition patterns. And, on the other hand, that they could make sense of other amendments to the Advertising Code, which are far broader than that which is discussed here today, but they obviously need due weighting and discussion in time. That there is no doubt that for the PS this issue is very important, it deserves careful analysis and discussion, but therefore we cannot make mere ad hoc amendments, which may even have the effect contrary to the intended one, without the due serious discussion of profound changes to the Advertising Code. We understand that there is a start here, such as, for example, the one that is suggested...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u74	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u75	I conclude, Mr. President. As I said, we understand that there is here a beginning of the path, such as the one suggested in the NAP project, which is the creation of a national plan to combat the additive behaviors associated with the game and the development of an epidemiological study associated with all games and bets. Only after that can we consider substantive amendments to the Advertising Code. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u76	You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mr João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme that we are discussing today is relevant, as is the concern that lies at the basis of the projects that are presented to us, because the additive behaviors associated with the game are obviously something that makes the game an activity with State intervention, and even with precedence, in its authorization. But what cannot be done is to generalize the role of the State in all this and its opposite. Otherwise, let us see: what is proposed here is that the State continues to authorize gambling; more, that the State continues to create games and promote it and that it allows it to be advertised. However, the same State then prohibits the game being advertised under certain circumstances and, now, the Socialist Party's Member still said, referring to the NAP project, which is good, it is good to create a plan to fight the addition in relation to the game. It's good for the state to organize! ... It is that if there is proof of absolute inefficiency is a state that wants to create game, then prohibit the game from being advertised and then create a plan for the problems caused by the game that created. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, if there are forms of play that, because they are additives and are not with access... It is that additive game has always been! Additive game has always existed, but it has its rules, which are different from those of social games, considered non-additive. Therefore, what the state has to do, first of all, is analyze the characteristics of each type of games and have a different regulation for those who are additives and for those who are not, as always happened. Are there new forms of play? Oh, my God! As regards the new forms of play, what can be done is analysed. On the other hand, we will not ignore why this legislative development has happened. All this kind of game already existed, but it was illegal. And what has been achieved in recent years with legislative developments, both from the point of view of online gambling legislation, or from the point of view of the Advertising Code, was to make illegal gambling legal. And today, with a very deep work, we are still only about 50% of the online game within legality and we still have about half of the legality. What was done with the Advertising Code was to try to make rules for an advertising that was completely deregulated, but that existed and still exists. So what we have to think about, for these bills, is whether what we are doing here, from the point of view of incentives, has a sufficiently positive incentive, in order to deter additive practices, which compensates for the incentives that will undoubtedly create for the escape of the game to illegality. from our point of view, it is very questionable that, in isolation, these measures can achieve any of the objectives proposed by the parties that present them, in addition to the absurdity that is, as I said at the beginning, the State is creating instruments that prohibit advertising and then creating plans for people not to use those instruments that it created. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u78	The next item is the closure of the debate by Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that if there has been any advantage in the agenda that the Left Block has made today, in fact, to bring this issue to the debate, because clearly there are problems identified over the past few years and those problems, from our point of view, have to have an answer. That is where we left the alerts that have been left, whether by specialists of the academy or by psychiatrists doctors, but we also recall the warning that the President of the ESC himself left a few months ago regarding the data that had been released by the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon itself, as regards the game he promotes, in particular the instant lottery. It was therefore this reflection that we left, without prejudice to the fact that Parliament has to do a thorough work of debate and hearing on the information that exists. We mentioned here that the bill affects the Advertising Code and, as I said in my speech, we have a draft resolution that also affects other matters, because obviously we cannot look only at advertising, we have to look at how, from a visual point of view, the game is presented, i.e. if it is more or less appealing, how we can have self-exclusion mechanisms, for example, that already exist for another type of game and can be applied to scrappings or other social games. In any case, we believe that advertising is, in fact, central to the point of view of the disincentive, and this has been proven over the years with other types of products and substances that cause dependence. It is undeniable that the issue of advertising has been a central point when we talk about fighting addictions. Finally, on raspadinas, specifically, and the question raised by Mr Filipe Pacheco, of the PS, about the source of funding for various social measures, I believe that this is a debate that we should indeed have, that is, we must realize whether it makes sense that most of the words that the Holy House of Mercy has at this time for social action is obtained at the expense of an instant lottery, which is clearly used and bought by the lower social classes by the data of the Holy House itself. This must indeed lead us to a reflection on this financing model and it makes sense that social measures are supported by play, which, irrespective of being more or less addictive, can always cause addition and can always bring problems from the social and economic point of view. In conclusion, Mr President, the aim of this debate is that Parliament can continue to deepen this matter and, therefore, the Left Block is fully available for all proposals and for all the additions, hearings and debates that Parliament can develop in the future, because that is our objective, not only that of an ad hoc amendment, as has been said here, but that of which Parliament is dealing with this matter, and if it has to be for some time longer that it is for a longer time. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u80	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of this debate, so we will enter the fourth and last point of our agenda, that of the evaluation of the Draft Resolution No 1445 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Increase in national minimum wage. For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The response to national problems requires the recovery of labour and workers, the general value of wages — including the increase of the national minimum wage to €850 —, the exploitation of careers, the repeal of the serious standards of labour law, the increase of reforms and the exploitation of other social benefits, the fight against precariousness and the creation of employment with rights. A global response which no budget can ignore, either in its content or in its path, but which goes beyond the State Budget as a whole of the measures and options that need to be implemented. The proposal to increase the national minimum wage to €850, which the CFP brings to discussion today, is one of the components of this overall response to national problems and confronts the government and the PS with the need to clarify whether the way they want to do is to respond to the problems of workers, people and the country, by implementing an alternative policy, or if, on the contrary, they insist on refusing and delaying the solutions that they impose, preferring to see the bulk of the national problems. The proposal presented by the CFP, increasing the national minimum wage to €850, is of tremendous importance in the life of more than 1 million and 200,000 workers (which take the minimum wage), but it is also of great importance for hundreds of thousands of workers who, earning more than the minimum wage, must see their wages increased, driven by the increase in national minimum wage. The unjust distribution of wealth is one of the most serious problems facing the country. Portugal has no future with a path of low wages, which brings with it impoverishment, unemployment, emigration. The general increase in wages is essential for improving the living conditions of workers, but also for the future of the country, because there is no developed country without valued workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u83	And the increase of the national minimum wage to €850 is fundamental, too, for a fairer distribution of wealth. These €850 would mean, in net value, more than €756 per month that workers would start taking home, in contrast with a value that, today, is just above €590 liquid. But the increase in national minimum wage is also essential for higher retirement pensions in the future, for better social protection, for economic development and for the dynamisation of the internal market, for job creation, for strengthening social security financing. It is essential to restore purchasing power, to cope with the cost of living—with continuing increases that wages never accompany—but also, at the same time, to respond to many other needs, such as housing, because we well know that low wages are a huge obstacle to access to housing today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u84	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u85	Salary is no favor, it is no charity, it is a fundamental right. It is the workers who, every day, week after week and month after month, produce the wealth of our country. And many of those who were applauded and praised in these times of COVID kept the country functioning and guaranteed the general access of the population to goods and services, taking home the national minimum wage and discussing each month, with difficulties in coping with the cost of living. It is from the fullest righteousness that those who produce the wealth of our country, who make it work and grow, are properly valued. About 10 % of workers live in poverty today, even working. Poverty is not combated, including child poverty, without assuming the necessary recovery of wages and a significant increase in national minimum wage. There can be no higher pensions in the future without increasing wages in the present, in particular the national minimum wage. The economy is not dynamized without assuming that it is the wages of workers who influence consumption, demand and the dynamisation of the internal market. It does not advocate the emancipation of young people without assuming that, so that they can leave their parents' home and carry out life projects, it is essential that they have stable links and wages that guarantee them conditions to build, autonomously, their path. There is no fight against emigration of qualified workers nor do workers set themselves in the Public Administration without valuing wages, careers and professions. We cannot talk about the sustainability of social security without assuming that the increase in wages is decisive for this objective. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the process of increasing the minimum wage in recent years is a direct result of the struggle of workers, to which the CFP has given voice and concrete expression with proposals and initiatives such as the one we are discussing today. And the sense in which we present this proposal is the same, to give workers in Portugal a perspective that their needs and aspirations are taken into account in the valuation of their wages. The path that is imposed is that of failure with the options of right-wing policy that sustain the economic model based on low wages and follow, yes, that of the alternative of valuing work and workers. This is the solution that the CFP brings to the discussion today and it is before it that the other parties, especially the PS, have to clarify positions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u86	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What I am going to say may surprise many people and, in particular, the CFP. A Portuguese who earns the minimum wage paid to the State 25 % of what he earns, between contributions and indirect taxes. Repeat: 25%!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u88	Show proof of that one of 25 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u89	You're right! It's more! The PCP remains unaware that this is the real injustice. And proposals to put an end to this? Not one! They always insist on the same key and do not realize that wages do not rise by decree. In fact, there are even several European countries with high incomes and good social climate where there is not even a national minimum wage, but there are minimum wages agreed between trade unions and companies or sectors without interference from the State. In Portugal, on the contrary, and after six years of management and successive increases in the minimum wage, all that was achieved was to offset the minimum wage to the median wage and that is manifestly little. The truth is that there will only be sustained wage increases if the economy grows, which the PS and management have no idea how to make it happen. The PS and management do not realize that, in order to have economic growth from time to time in Portugal and better wages, we must even reduce bureaucracy, reduce context costs, reduce taxes. And now we have to reduce the rhetoric of hate to the private initiative that the PCP and the Left Block so much like to promote and condemn us to this stagnation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u90	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the evolution of both the national minimum wage and the average wage, Portugal has been stagnant, in fact, far from the European average, which, at present, seems absolutely unjustifiable to us. We simply do a little exercise: a worker in Portugal has to work three years to earn the same as a German worker and the same can be said for workers in Sweden, Luxembourg, Belgium, or even even Ireland. He does not see anyone who does not want Portugal in fact to have a low wage problem and has to make progress towards the appreciation of our professionals, advances that in the view of the NAP cannot be sent. This means that we have to look at the minimum wage, but also at the average wage, which, unfortunately, is often forgotten on the left. As for the minimum wage, the NAP argues that up to 2023 is reaching the 800 € target, a solution that seems to us to be balanced, despite nothing we have to oppose that goes further and reaches the 850 €. In fact, this gradual step from the 800 € point of view could have a more realistic accession, especially after the impact that the health crisis has had and that has brought to a number of companies. We also understand that the dynamics of economic recovery can allow the government, over the next two years, to review its target of 750 € up to 2023, being more ambitious and thus going to meet the objective of the NAP and, of course, the CFP, to which we do not oppose. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the right, so far, has found that the existence of decent wages is spending and that it calls into question the subsistence of companies. But it is enough to remember that the costs of staff salaries in Portugal represent only 16 % of the total costs of non-financial companies in the private sector, which means that they are not wage increases, mainly moderated as those proposed by the NAP, which call into question the viability of companies. In fact, as we have said, the debate on wage valuations must not be polluted in the debate on the minimum wage. It is necessary, once and for all, to give a signal to businesses, to the middle class and also to talk about the increase in the average wage, which, year after year, will be forgotten. For the NAP, we can achieve this not by introducing the private management of companies — which must be free to pay the average wages they understand — but rather by reviewing the steps of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) so that, by tax, an increase in income is promoted to these people who are successively being forgotten Budget after Budget. If, on the one hand, we see with good eye that the Government has approached the claim that the NAP has made, speaking now in the revision of the third and sixth steps of the IRS, this measure is very ambitious, because, we remember, it is precisely the third to the sixth step, that is, including the fourth and fifth steps, that 54 % of the Portuguese population, precisely the middle class, is taxed. It is precisely here that we must ensure that there is both a review of the percentages applied, or the breakdown of the steps, because only then will we really relieve families and not allow there to be an adjustment of the average order to the national minimum order. As for the inclusion, a measure that has also been spoken, such should not call into question those who are the middle class's real incomes, under the penalty of having a real impoverishment of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u92	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u93	I really am concluding, Mr President. Mrs. Members, if the aim is to combat certain speculative incomes, do not contain with us for marketing games that take the middle class what they give you with one hand, but that treat it as a millionaire class, and that is not the reality of the country. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u94	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The minimum wage, which, fortunately, has increased in recent years, continues to be too low, especially when compared with the needs of life, with the cost of daily living, both for adults and for children, with the value of income, with the value of light. What gives 592 € liquids per month, in fact, does not reach 592 € liquids per month? It goes for very little, it does for very little. The Government has made a commitment to raise the national minimum wage in this legislature up to €750 and the minimum is that it fulfils this commitment and does not withdraw. But from our point of view, it is possible to go further and it is possible to go further by necessity to fight poverty, to defend human rights. It makes no sense, it is unacceptable, it is offensive and we are not tired of saying that there are 10 % of workers in Portugal who continue to be poor even with wages, which has to do with low wages and also with the value of the minimum wage. Therefore, it is possible to go further, because increasing the minimum wage is a good economic decision, it is an economic decision that allows precisely to boost the domestic demand that micro and small businesses depend on in Portugal. from an economic point of view, it is also a sensible decision. They do not come to us with the argument of the weight of wages in the costs of companies, because we know that if we moved on other factors such as energy, we would be making a much more important contribution from that point of view. This is therefore an imperative of social and economic justice. We continue to have in the distribution between capital and labor a deep imbalance. Since 2010 and then, of course, 2011, the period of the troika, disbalanced and completely reversed this distribution and the weight of the low wages has precisely this consequence. Therefore, increasing the minimum wage—and not only the minimum wage, there must also be a collective contract to raise average wages, which enables people to have careers and good wages—is an imperative of social and economic justice. Thus, the minimum wage is increased, being more ambitious in this increase in the minimum wage, and is also working on other fundamental issues to have a real return. There is no wage dignity without combating precariousness and if we allow temporary work to flourish, outsourcings, which are forms of wage compression. There is no wage dignity if we do not have a capable collective contract that is not permanently threatened by the expiry of the conventions, by logics of wage compression by the employers and by the absorption of average wages, and by huge categories of employees of companies, by the minimum wage itself as it increases. Therefore, due to the imperatives of combating poverty, of good economic sense and of social justice, the minimum wage is increased. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u96	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unfortunately, there is no need to make an account, nor is it necessary to do studies to realize that low wages reign in our country. In fact, as we have seen over the years, the insistence on this political option, because it is a political option that we are talking about, continues to represent one of the most important reasons for the gross social inequalities in our country. But this low-wage policy option, in addition to being a strong injustice for thousands and thousands of families, does not contribute to the dynamisation of our economy, on the contrary. That is why it is absolutely imperative to pursue wage valuation, because it is a way to ensure more justice in the distribution of the wealth produced and at the same time to promote the increase of purchasing power and the improvement of the living conditions of the people who work and their families. In addition, the recovery of wages in general, in particular the national minimum wage, will be translated into the contribution to the recovery and dynamisation of the economy and domestic demand and consequently to national production and job creation. So much so that, in recent years, the purchasing power of families has been replaced, even though weak, by the purchasing power of families, it has allowed us to realize the importance of the replacement of purchasing power in the dynamisation of the internal market. It happens that the national minimum wage, despite the increase it has experienced in recent years, remains very low and remains very low at all levels and at all angles of analysis. It is low when compared to the minimum wage of the other countries of the European Union, it is low when we make a reading on the social and wage inequalities of our country and it is very low, to spray to unsustainability, when we look at the cost of living for the Portuguese. Moreover, it is sufficient to note that today's minimum wage is less than it was in 1974 and, in real terms, it is currently less than 10 % of what it has been worth 40 years. Even with the additions he has experienced in recent years, reality shows that, at present, a considerable part of the Portuguese, despite being employed, lives in poverty. This means that having a job is not in itself a condition to get out of poverty, since the value of the minimum wage is still too low to ensure the basic needs of workers and their families. It is also recalled that the minimum social wage has even been frozen between 2011 and 2014 when the PSD/CDS government has limited...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u98	It was the Socrates government!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u99	I'm still about to understand why you guys get so angry when we talk about the PSD/CDS government. Maybe, it was because it was very good.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u100	It wasn't us!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u101	It was Socrates who frozen the minimum wage!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u102	I said that the PSD/CDS government has even made a small increase in the minimum wage, in addition to having frozen for four years. [[PSD protests.]] It is imperative to increase the minimum wage that can be fair and take people out of poverty. That is what we are talking about: removing people from poverty. For all this, we follow the legislative initiative that the Portuguese Communist Party brings to us today and which, with all property, has scheduled for discussion in plenary. They may not like it, but the truth is that the PSD/CDS government frozen the minimum wage for four years and at that time only made a slight increase, not making any updates. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u103	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that peace return to plenary because there is no reason for these excesses. Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today the draft resolution of the CFP aimed at increasing the minimum wage. A year ago, at this very moment, we were also discussing the same project. We discuss it at a difficult time for the country, not only because the economy is not working in its normality, but because all our lives have been altered by the pandemic. If the discussion about the minimum wage normally lends itself to all demagogias, caricatures, maniqueisms, as we have seen here presented by the left, the gravity of the situation we are going through would indeed advise that we had this discussion with calmness, serenity and rationality. This is because the debate on the minimum wage has everything to do with the wealth that is produced in the country and with the results that companies are having. Therefore, reducing the size or reducing the discussion of the minimum wage to the good who have the political will of the increase and the bad ones who want to maintain the values in which they are currently present is, in fact, to reduce this debate virtually to absurd and irrational, as has been done so far. Discussing the minimum wage has to do with the distribution of wealth produced, yes, but also with the creation of that same wealth. It is not possible to share what is not produced and that is why these two aspects, creation and distribution of wealth, must be seen together in order to find a just and balanced solution. For rational discussions on national minimum wage, it is worth looking at what happens in the rest of Europe. If we look at the three highest national minimum wages in Europe, we find the case of Luxembourg, with the minimum national salary of €2141, the national wage of Ireland, with €1681, and that of the Netherlands, with €1666. Thus, in fact, if the actual objective of the CFP, when presenting this draft resolution, is that of Portugal to have one day a national minimum wage and a average wage such as those these countries have, then it would be worth following the example that these countries have followed. What the CFP has been proposing frequently, year after year—as in fact the various parties sitting next to it in the Hemicycle—is exactly the opposite of what these countries have done. By the way, it is also worth looking at the countries of Europe which have the lowest national minimum wage, the result of decades of policies: Bulgaria, with a minimum wage of €311, Latvia, with a minimum wage of €430, and Romania, with a minimum wage of €463. At the moment we live, the real choice for many companies — that is not knowing the business world as it seems to be happening, and it is necessary for Parliament and all of us to be aware of it — is whether they can endure the damage they have suffered in the past year or whether they will have to close. This is the discussion. I want to make a note — and the CDS will say what it has always said — that it is up to the social dialogue to decide on this matter. And it is in social dialogue, where companies and workers are, that you systematically insist on putting each other against each other. But these, together, can fight to overcome this crisis—only together and not put employers against workers, such as systematically the PCP and the left have been doing. The solution to this issue has to be found and it is very simple: it is in the social consultation that this discussion is responsible for and not with demagogic proposals, such as that presented by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u106	For an intervention, Mrs Ofélia Ramos, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Diana Ferreira, there is one thing we all have to recognise: no one can accuse the Communist Party of lack of coherence, because the Communist Party repeats the same initiatives every year, regardless of the circumstances and the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u108	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u109	This, allow me to tell you, take seriousness and credibility from the Communist Party's proposals. Today, again, we have a draft resolution with requirements on the national minimum wage, on the eve of discussion and negotiation of the State budget. We discussed today exactly what we discussed last year: the increase of the minimum wage to € 850. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, the national minimum wage is a fundamental feature of the democratic rule of law, which plays a crucial role in promoting the dignity of work and social cohesion. Therefore, the evolution of the national minimum wage deserves an unlimited sense of responsibility and a prudent rigour for all political decision makers. Along with the wish that we all have that the national minimum wage is progressively higher and offers purchasing power gains to whom it benefits, deserves and requires serious and rigorous evaluation, it deserves to be met the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the Labour Code, which lay down the requirements and conditions to be taken into account in determining the value of the national minimum wage. For the most careless, as seems to be the case of the Portuguese Communist Party and other political parties in this House, I recall that the Labour Code says that the Standing Committee on Social Concertation should be heard. The Labour Code also requires that, in determining the value of the national minimum wage, among other factors, the following should be considered: the needs of workers, the increased cost of living and the evolution of productivity, with a view to their adequacy to the criteria of income and price policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u111	If there is a matter which must be discussed in the context of social consultation, it is precisely that of the national minimum wage, because it is in the social consultation that workers and employers are represented — after all, they are the ones who pay the national minimum wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u112	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u113	In addition to these, it is also represented the Socialist Government, which has relied on the support of the Communist Party over the years, which has enabled this socialist governance that the CFP insists on demarcation before its voters, exempting itself from any responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u115	If it is in social dialogue that the dialogue between trade unions and employers' confederations is promoted, I ask you, Mrs Deputy, why is it that the Communist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u116	It's not a Communist Party, it's a Portuguese Communist Party, ma'am!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u117	... does not respect social consultation. Who does not respect social consultation, does not respect workers and does not respect the entities representing them, the unions! [[PSD applause.]] Yes, the Communist Party claims to be on the side of the workers, but in fact, it has always been against social consultation, knowing that it has allowed the increase of the national minimum wage over the years. Thus, we can even say that the CFP has been against all the negotiations for the increase of the national minimum wage. And if the national minimum wage increased, it was not by the will of the CFP, it was against its will. [[PCP protests.]] And this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it leads me to doubt the true intentions of the Communist Party and to think that this initiative does not go from a political stage to trick the workers and to bring the debate up the minimum wage, so as to create the illusion to the Portuguese that it is the Communist Party who owes the minimum wage increases, when we all know that they have not contributed to it. [[PCP protests.]] Having said this, I reiterate what I said last year: the proposal from the CFP is not to be taken seriously, because the CFP does not take Portuguese people seriously; it does not take workers seriously, who often side by side with employers, want, above all, to preserve their employment and safeguard their wages at the end of the month; it does not take those who fear losing their jobs and are in the vicinity of dismissals, as has happened to thousands of Portuguese in recent months; it does not take seriously companies, who are desperate to pay their obligations because they are being swallowed up by an unprecedented economic crisis, to which they have not contributed. The increase of 28 % of the national minimum wage, as proposed by the CFP, has never occurred in the history of Portuguese democracy, even in our best economic times. To propose an increase in this order of greatness in one of the most difficult moments, but rather the most demanding, for 47 years, is an irresponsible act and even outpaced of the reality that the country faces.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u118	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u119	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that today, more than ever, in the current economic and social crisis, the increase in the national minimum wage should be discussed in social consultation with workers and employers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u120	Mr Fernando José of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the initiative of the Portuguese Communist Party, recognizing the importance of affirming at every moment the work worthy, with more and better rights, with the value of wages and careers and with the densification of the fight against job precariousness. in this way of affirmation we cannot be left alone by words and by the agitation of flags. It is necessary to move from intention to act, demanding in opposition, for example, the fight against precarious links, but cannot fail to act in this direction when we assume, here or there, the management power as an employer. We are therefore together on the path that, pragmatically, resilient and determined, will lead us to the design and implementation of the dignified work agenda. This is the path we have taken so far and of which we must not forget: the amendment of the rules on the transmission of establishments with greater protection for workers; the full replacement of wages and holiday and Christmas allowances; the replacement of 35 hours and the freezing of career progression in the Public Administration; the replacement of holidays; the reduction of the maximum duration of contracts for the right term from three to two years and of contracts for the uncertain term from six to four years. It was a journey with joint effort and in which, despite the most difficult and demanding phase of our collective life, no step back was taken in the achievements achieved. Having arrived here, and facing the future with hope, we must continue with renewed determination. That is why I need to do even better. It is in this sense that, following the discussion of the Green Paper on the Future of Work, the Government has already presented to the social partners a set of proposals for amending the Labour Code with a view to promoting the decent work agenda and the exploitation of young people in the labour market. However, the theme of the national minimum wage cannot be delineated from the priority to promoting decent work and the recovery of the economy with more sustainable and more quality employment. It was in these terms that the Government has already taken the following priorities: to promote sustainable employment and to combat precariousness, particularly among young people; to regulate new forms of work associated with changes in work and the digital economy; to strengthen the rights of workers who perform work through platforms; to enhance collective relations and collective bargaining; and to Denify the protection of young workers and students in vocational training. On the national minimum wage, which is, as we know, established by governmental decree-law, after hearing the social partners sitting in the Standing Committee on Social Concertation, since 2011, it is said that the current Government has ensured an appreciation of the national minimum wage always above the value of inflation. During the XIII Legislature, the Socialist Party included in the Government's Programme the commitment to increase the national minimum wage for the 600 € until the end of the Legislature, and the goal was met in January 2019. In other words, if we compare XIII legislation with previous legislation, the PSD Government / CDS, the national minimum wage had a five-fold increase: 5 € in the XII Legislation, against 95 € in the XIII Legislation. With the beginning of the XIV Legislation, the Government again included in its programme the commitment to increase the national minimum wage up to €750. In January 2021, the Government, in compliance with the objective of reaching up to €750 up to €2023, established the national minimum wage in €665. Thus, between 2015 and 2021, the national minimum wage increased 32 %, i.e. 160 € per month, 2310 € per year.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u122	What about this proposal that's on the table?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u123	In 2023, when the national minimum wage is set at 750 €, in compliance with the Government Programme, the accumulated increase compared to 2015 will be about 50 %, which represents monthly plus 245 € and annually plus 3430 €. By ensuring the future in the right direction, the Government will listen to the social partners to define the national minimum wage, while seeking a medium-term agreement on wages and income, ensuring a positive trajectory for the incomes of all Portuguese families. This is, therefore, the way in which we will not take a step back, affirming a dignified work agenda, with the inherent value of wages. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u124	To close the debate, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After hearing the speeches of the various parliamentary groups, we realized that the PSD, the CDS and the Liberal Initiative argued towards reducing wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u126	Nobody said that! Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u127	You want to reduce wages, which is not unusual, considering the cut in wages and social benefits that were your author in the latest PSD/CDS government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u128	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u129	But, Mrs. Ofélia Ramos, let me tell you that desperate are the workers who bring home less than 600 € and who have no money to cope with the cost of living. [[Protests by PSD Member Ofélia Ramos.]] Desperate are the workers who have to pay for home and food, because this money does not reach the set of expenses they have.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u130	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u131	As such, it is the general increase and recovery of wages, in particular the increase of the national minimum wage to the €850, which allows these and many more workers to have better living conditions and can cope with the cost of living. This is the way you don't want to go. Take him here in the discussion they're doing! [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr Fernando José, we also have to say that the intervention made by the PS does not wish anything good. But they have time until tomorrow to actually reflect on the path they want to follow. The proposal we have tabled is structural for the economic and social recovery of the country, for the exploitation of work and workers. What the PS has to decide, on the position to take, is what way it wants to follow: if it really wants to respond to the problems that the country faces, giving an answer that has to be global and that entails the recovery of wages and the increase of the national minimum wage to the €850; or if it wants to follow a path that does not make this valuation and that continues to bind to a set of taxes that prevent the progress and social justice that this country has conditions to make. It is that it is the workers of this country who produce the wealth that is then distributed in wages. It is the workers who produce this wealth and it is the wages of these workers that must be valued. Mr President, the distribution of wealth has been mentioned. Valuation of wages is also a fundamental instrument for a fairer distribution of wealth. The last family financial survey said that 70 % of national wealth is in the hands of 20 % of the wealthiest families in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u132	And why will it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u133	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u134	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. Families with less incomes, i.e. the group of 20 % of families with the lowest incomes, have only 0, 1 % of national wealth. 70 % against 0, 1 %! This shows well injustice in the distribution of wealth and urgency in the need for the valuation of wages and the increase of the national minimum wage for the €850. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u135	We have thus reached the end of the fourth point and therefore of our agenda. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor to give us some information about today's session.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u136	Mr President, it is only to realize that Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP, in her confinement, accompanied the work of the session by videoconferencing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-30.u137	Thank you very much, Secretary. It remains - to announce tomorrow's agenda, Friday, October 1st. First of all I am going to announce that there will be elections to the following external bodies: four judges for the Constitutional Court, four members for the Higher Council of Information, six members for the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals and three members for the Independent Committee on Monitoring and Monitoring of Special Public Procurement Measures. the second item on the agenda shall include the debate, with the participation of the Government, on the state of the Union, as provided for in Article 4 ( c ). the Law on Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic, in the process of building the European Union. of the third point will be the discussion of the Bill No. 618 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Current account between taxpayers and the State. of the fourth point shall be the joint assessment of Bill Nos 865 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — For the protection of shark mako / anequim ( Isurusoxyrinchus and Isurus paucus) and 864 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Remote electronic monitoring of fishing vessels, Resolution Projects Nos 1332 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Prohibition of the use of lead in fishing and 1389 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Portuguese Government the recognition and award of a professional status to the Maritime Fisheries Observer of the Draft Law No 833 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Determines the end of bottom trawling with a view to protecting marine ecosystems and resolution projects Nos 27 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Temporary stabilization of the allowance for small craft and coastal fishing and small aquaculture, 95 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Programme in defence of the fisheries of the Circle and its professionals and 1239 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures to minimise the impact of fishing. of the fifth point will be the discussion of Lein Projects 31 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Extends the scope to new labelling products for foods containing transgenic foods and 944 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — establishes the obligation to provide information to the consumer on the environmental costs of food production, amending Decree-Law No 138 / 90 of 26 April. of the sixth point shall be the assessment of Resolution Nos 27 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves for ratification the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Transfer of Condemned Persons, opened for signature in Strasbourg, 18 December 1997, and 28 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves for accession the Protocol amending the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Transfer of Condemned Persons, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 22 November 2017. Finally, there will be a regiment vote. Thank you all very much and a very good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 42 minutes.]]
