ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. We will start this plenary meeting on 13 May 2021. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] The session today has as its only point under Article 227. the Rules of Procedure, the Appeal to Government No 7 / XIV / 2. a, required by the PSD, on territorial cohesion. To open the debate, Mr Fernando Ruas of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party has understood, and well, to bring to this debate, in this magna Assembly, the very important issue of the cohesion of the territory. The current situation in the country, despite having passed 47 years of democratic life and 35 years of European integration, fully justifies this decision. Portugal is indeed today a much more developed country than we know of the dictatorship time, but it is certainly also a more asymmetrical and unjust country. To fully demonstrate what we have just mentioned, it is enough - only to lay hands on two or three examples: the increasing desertification of the interior, which we have seen watching and which partly justifies the usual wave of fires that are going on every year— fewer people mean less life, less activity, less surveillance, and therefore an ideal place for deflaming fires with which we are periodically whipped. On the other hand, we find that, in just over half a century, the entire territory of the interior has passed from about one third of the total population of the country to just one tenth of that same population. As we have sometimes mentioned, we are building a country with one French body, swirling the skiing, with two abnormally large heads, finding that one is considerably larger than the other. Consider another example: according to the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), only 32 of the 308 Portuguese municipalities are located above the national average of purchasing power, naturally all of them located on the coast, while at the same time finding that the vast majority of district capitals are below the national average. What have we done before all this? As the song says, «swifts to the side». In fact, there has been no political courage to make such widespread positive discrimination from the inside. We should at least be consistent with the speech that is usually used in terms of official positions taken up in the European area, in which we voluntarily belong and where, and very well, we want to continue to maintain. It is that the correction of asymmetries between Member States is, and has always been, a concern that comes from the time of the founding fathers as a prerequisite for a harmonious and sustainable development of the European Union. It is said, in truth, that regional development policy and cohesion policy are undoubtedly of the most successful in the European Union, being a permanent requirement of the beneficiary countries, in which we are included, to demand participations to mitigate the imbalances between Member States. If so, if we do so, well, why don't we do the same thing internally? How is it possible and understood, then, that our national territory where most of its regions are below the European average, and where two of them are even the poorest of the European space, may at the same time have one of the richest capitals in Europe, a capital in which the purchasing power per capita is more than twice the purchasing power of the rest of the country? We believe that our European partners would certainly understand that we had taken advantage of our Presidency of the European Union so that the Port Summit could have a small part, which was dedicated to the problem of territorial cohesion and regional development. If this had happened, perhaps it could be concluded that it was a huge mistake and a tremendous injustice against the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), a plan which, as it is known, has the largest and most significant source of funding from the European Union. We were therefore surprised that those responsible for the ANMP (National Association of Portuguese Municipalities) insurgents had come to say that they had not been heard about such an important plan. And they said more: « For municipalities, the PRR is a round ‘zero’. There is nothing in this plan that promotes territorial cohesion and that is even a contribution to centralism. A real fallacy. Do not keep on seeking. ” in another document on the contributions of the National Association of Municipalities, within the framework of the PRR, concludes: "The PRR proposal does not effectively combat some of the structural problems caused by the pandemic crisis, goes alongside a single opportunity for territorial cohesion and is surprisingly centralized in management and their priorities for intervention. Do not keep on seeking. ” We are talking about the most important local power organization, local power which is surely one of the greatest achievements of our democracy. We are also talking about the status of the State — I remember that the local power is also a State — with so much more legitimacy than the central State. We are also talking about the closest power of the people, the one who contributed most to the infrastructure of the territories and the one who best applied the resources available and who, at the same time, was democratizing investment. It will then be legitimate to ask how many parts of the territory of the country and, above all, how many parcels of the territory of deep Portugal would not have been completely furnished from that investment, unless it was the denoded action of the municipalities and the parish of these same territories. No one understands, therefore, the marginalization to which they were voted, and that the main leaders of the National Association of Municipalities have publicly come to print. The autarchs have still been those who try to stop the concentration dynamics in the large metropolitan areas, as well as the emptying of the interior. But it is certainly the central State that has the greatest responsibility in this process, in particular through the relocation of public services and the creation of a framework of incentives for the installation of people and businesses in areas within. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already had the opportunity to point out at various times that the creation of the Ministry of Cohesion was a positive decision. The Minister has an appropriate vehicle and, in our opinion, she has sufficient capacity for good driving. Only that the rest of the government is closing the existing supply posts in some ministries and the cohesion car is not running. We understand the thankless position of the Minister when she does not find openness by her Government when she intends to relocate some services from Lisbon to the regions of the country. These positions are incomprehensible, which have led it, with some courage, to reflect publicly these difficulties. We believe that it was here that strong support from the Prime Minister was required to counter these incomprehensible centralist positions. After all, Mr. Prime Minister is no longer the president of the City Hall of Lisbon, but the head of the whole country. So are the ladies. Ministers will not be governors of the capital authority, but of the whole country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, the country must even become considered as a whole. Territorial cohesion has really been a serious reality. We cannot passively continue to accept that there is capital and that the rest is landscape, but this is the position that the people of the interior are going to internalize and assimilate. When it is stated that priority will be given to the railway, it is necessary to confirm it with acts, because it cannot be understood that the cost of any connection Aveiro-Viseu-Line of the Beira Alta is considered extremely high and therefore requires studies and more studies to make a decision, but that at the same time it is decided to put into work the external circular of the Metro of Lisbon, with similar costs. The same is also said of the difficulties encountered to obtain, for example, a decision in favour of the construction of the motorway between the two most populous cities of the interior, and I refer to Viseu and Coimbra. This is a way in conditions perfectly similar to those found in the underdeveloped countries and where tens of thousands of cars travel daily — freight cars, passenger transport cars, but above all, special civil protection-related cars, including ambulances of patients who demand, often due to lack of response or absence of health facilities where they live, the Hospitals of the University of Coimbra.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u5	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u6	There is an absolute contrast when we see the entanglement of sections existing in the two metropolitan areas, or even on the coast, where two known highways almost touch each other. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation I have described will not be new to anyone, but the fact is that the trend seen in recent decades is perfectly frightening, and it is even more frightening when we see that, in addition to the increasing decline in the population of the interior, it is more concentrated in the age group of less than 25 years. In the coastal range of the continent, 83 % of the wealth produced are located, 89 % of higher education students and 89 % of tourist sleepers, so if nothing is done, the interior will continue to gradually become an increasingly abandoned and weakened area. As is mentioned in a work published in May 2018 by prominent figures of Portuguese society—and that you, Ex.a., Minister, well know, to what I believe, for having collaborated in this same work—, «There is no country that can develop on the basis of the demanding difficulties and inequalities, which assume proportions of this nature(...) are themselves a serious obstacle to development, to the constitutional principle of equal opportunities and to social justice. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I will conclude, not without reference and note that for the Government, the problem of the interior and territorial cohesion was enough to pass from the Secretary of State to the Ministry to show concern for the interior, and then, the matter closed, possibly because he will understand other matters more important to worry about. For us, the interior is at the top of priorities and I therefore leave here a call for coherence and elevation of this matter, the national priority to be a reality. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u7	I call on the Government, Ms. Minister of Territorial Cohesion, Ana Abrunhosa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u8	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Government colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank the words that I understood as a great motivation for the work of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and I would like to believe — and if I did not believe that, very likely, we would not be here — that the creation of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion corresponded to a political will and a desire of the government to give and look at the interior differently. We are, and have been, increasingly, an asymmetric country and therefore urgently move beyond the political discourse of valuing and discriminating the interior for concrete action, particularly for policies and measures that value the interior. The creation of this Ministry has already allowed some results that take time to see and want to do justice to recognize that never, politically, the agenda and the problems of the interior, but also the potential of the interior were as high as the table and in the political debate as today. I would therefore like to believe the importance that the Government attaches to this area, to the territory and to people, above all. The first concern of this Ministry of Territorial Cohesion, and always feeling the support of the entire Government, especially the Prime Minister, was in fact to create measures dedicated to the interior. What we have done, taking into account the financial instruments at our disposal, which are the regional operational programmes, managed through the regions and in free and close partnership with the inter-municipal communities (IMC) and with the municipalities, was for the first time to open measures lasting one year, on a continuous basis, for companies. We have done this in three areas that we consider as priority: investment support measures, these measures that were open throughout the year 2020; contracting support measures; and measures to support inland coastal mobility. That is, at the same time that we supported only those investment projects to be carried out in the interior, either by businesses in the interior or by companies that want to invest in the interior, at the same time we supported the hiring of workers by the companies and at the same time we supported the movement of families from the coast to the interior. I want to say that, of the values we have approved—and I am not talking about measures, I am talking about values supported and approved in Portugal 2020 for companies and I am only talking about business investment—we have approved about 14 000 business projects, with the support of Community funds, which involve investment intentions of about EUR 5000 million and with Community support of EUR 2, 5 million. And I must say that 39 % of these values are on the inside, but I must also say that 50 % of domestic support for business projects was made in 2020. However, the fact that by 2020 we had a cross-sectional measure that did not differentiate the territories often led entrepreneurs in these territories to believe in the following: « These warnings are not for us» or « After the hierarchy of merit of projects, we have no budget for us». Therefore, this measure of having been notified only for investments in interior territories, resulted in half of the domestic support in Portugal 2020 as a whole. This means that we must continue to do this measure of appreciation and discrimination of the inside. The same is true of science support. As regards support for science, which we have done with the aid of the Community funds, 60 % of these support was made last year in interior territories. This means that by 2020 we had very residual values of support for higher education institutions in interior territories and we had very residual values in support of science projects, both in companies and in companies in partnership with higher education institutions. Today, overall we have a value that prides us, but 60 % of this value was approved by 2020. So this is another reason for us to continue to have a policy and a Ministry that looks especially at the interior and valued policies of the interior territories. For the first time, we had, within this Community framework, measures to support contracts directed solely or with an increase in domestic enterprises. Everyone remembers the results and the great demand that the programme + CO3SO Employment, which had an allocation of EUR 90 million and which, today, already has an approval of EUR 250 million,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and mostly for interior territories. And for the first time in the contractual support measures, in addition to supporting companies, we also supported the IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity). That is, in a pandemic context, where our institutions in the social area had a lack of human resources and needed, and they need, to give more and more innovative answers, we included in these support to the IPSS. I must also say that we have not only exceeded the EUR 90 million I have already mentioned, as the objective, which was 1600 jobs, now exceeds the 5000 jobs, and its overwhelming majority is in the interior territories. I would also like to point out what the honourable Member said about the PRR and the fact that the municipalities, through their National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, felt little involved in the discussion. I believe and have no doubt that if the municipalities are not responsible for the execution of the overwhelming majority of the measures contained in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, this will not be carried out. And I'm talking about multiple areas, even because there are areas, such as health, social and education, in which competences necessarily become municipalities as of March 2022. Therefore, all investments that are planned in the PRR in these areas will naturally be made by municipalities. But also all projects that we have, in particular in the area of housing, will be done either by the metropolitan areas or by the municipalities, provided they naturally have a contract with the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilição Urbana). And it is not only in this area, because, even in the matter of highways, this issue which is not peaceful in negotiating with the European Commission, for part of the road projects we have, are the municipalities that will be owners of work. Especially in cross-border links—and I am talking about the bridges we have in Nice and Alcoutim—will be the owners of work, of course with all the support of the coordination and regional development committees ( CCDR ), but also of the infrastructures of Portugal ( IP ). I would also like to point out that much of the values that we have entered in the Recovery and Resilience Plan will be awarded through competition, particularly in the area of health, social equipment and in the area of mobilising agendas for the economy. Our role — of the CCDRs and of this Ministry — is to work with the autarchs and with the regions to have mature projects to run the competition.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u9	It's necessary to work!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u10	Therefore, the PRR will be both of the municipalities or more, it will be both of the interior territories, so we know how to create the conditions for municipalities and these territories to be able to submit applications to the Recovery and Resilience Plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u11	You want to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u12	I'm done now, Mr. President. But the Recovery and Resilience Plan is not the last chance. We still have about EUR 4 billion in the current Community framework and we will still have a significant amount of money in the next Community framework, which will have to continue to strengthen a policy of discrimination and exploitation of the interior, either for businesses — and notice that I only spoke about companies — whether for public investment or for the social sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u13	We will enter the debate period. To request clarification from Mr Fernando Ruas of the PSD, Mr Santinho Pacheco of the PS was registered. Mr Santinho Pacheco, please reveal your question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the Minister, the reality of the interior — of regions with very low population density, with high ageing rates, with small business dynamics that can boost the establishment of enterprises and the lack of jobs that create active populations and attract young people — forced a political response to the problems of development. Only with public investment policies and the installation of public services in the remote state of the major centres will it be possible to make time and keep those territories alive economically. The right has never and never had a strategy for low-density territories. The so-called "state reforms" that he tried had only the objective of cutting off expenditure, which meant closing public services, done blindly and irrationally, and based on statistics, which always had profitability and demography as a criterion. The social and economic collapse of many rural or urban municipalities of the interior, even of the district capitals, was irreversible. The PS government, whether it likes it or not, had the courage and the political vision to define a strategy of appreciation of the interior. Programs such as CO3SO Knowledge or CO3SO Competitiveness already have results in view: in investment and employment, in the millions of euro invested and in the hundreds of jobs created. The Internal Employment MEASURES, the support for the return of migrants, all of this is in cruise speed. Just mention what's going on in the district where I'm elected, the guard district. It never was designed and invested so much. The Guard believes and trusts that the works on the railway — the High Beira Line, already in operation, the Lower Beira Line, which has just been inaugurated, the Douro Line between Pocinho and Barca d’Alva — are to be implemented. The same happens on the road, with the IC6, in health, with the works at the hospital of Guarda ( the second phase of the hospital or the upgrading of the Pavilion 5 ) or with the Seia Health Center, in the dry port in the Guarda, in the installation of the control and emergency unit of the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) and in the National Road Education Centre, in the Guarda. Therefore, Mr Fernando Ruas, there are reasons to believe that there is, in fact, a new time for the interior too. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u15	You know, like all of us, that we need to pursue this policy in order to reverse the situation. But it is not sustainable to continue to make tolls the centre of concerns in these territories.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u16	Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u17	The tolls are whose life table? Are they the interior rescue table or some politicians? Finally, as far as the PRR and territorial cohesion are concerned, do you really believe that the authorities are on the verge of implementing the PRR? I don't believe it, because I know the political will of this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u18	Go read!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u19	In reply, Mr Fernando Ruas of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u20	Mr President, I would like to say and remind Colleague Santinho Pacheco that I have no longer been president of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities for seven years. I have just quoted myself, so there would be no doubt. If the autoarchs are not involved, it was the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities that said so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u21	Make it clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u22	By the way, I'd like to remind you of something else. In recent decades, we have received EUR 90 billion for regional development, and what I ask is what we have done with this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u24	And excuse me to come and tell me, as usual, that it was in the past, because the past is past, it has already been judged, and we are talking to this government, we are not talking to anyone else. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u25	Too bad if, every time we brought a problem to the breakfast, we threw it into the past, because, like that, any day, we were discussing the Discoveries! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] When you are elected, you have to take responsibility for what you do, it is not to shoot at the past. Otherwise, we could go to Ericeira, and you don't like that, do you? So let's see if we understand each other. The only question I brought here was the inner problem. And I note that Mr Santinho Pacheco is very pleased with the issue of the Guard. I can only agree with you on one thing: as you did not separate, all investments await. Everyone wait! That's what we agree with. I don't know if any of your containers understand it, when they say it's all in condition, it's all being released. [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] This, when we see that the interior is increasingly abandoned. Another thing I would like to remind you is that there is only cohesion policy because there are regions below the European average. And who has benefited more from this cohesion policy? It is Lisbon, which, if it were a State, paid exactly for the others. So we can't consent to that. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u26	Let's move on to the requests for clarification to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion. I have to tell you it's 19 questions. I don't know why, this number is very present at this session of Parliament... there are 19 questions. The Minister said she would respond to the first nine together. You have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mr Luís Leite Ramos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u27	Mr President, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, Minister of State, I recognize two things: your goodwill and your very great effort to defend the cause of territorial development. But my recognition ends there with regard to the will and policy of the Government. What is true is that, despite the establishment of a Ministry of Territorial Cohesion, for this government territorial cohesion does not enter into or count, it is really a kind of approach, a bottleneck, sometimes a spin to justify a non-existent policy. It is that the same government that promises to tear the clothes off because of development and territorial cohesion is the first to accentuate inequalities and to do everything to make them worse. Sometimes, Mrs. Minister, I am a little confused with your silence and yours, sometimes I don't want to call it complicity... but, finally, what is true is that we would rather like to hear the Minister defend the causes of territorial cohesion. We well know that the Socialist Party, when it was in opposition for years and years, cried out with the issue of internal tolls. Now, not anymore, it is no longer an important issue. But what is true is that this Parliament has voted and determined the reduction of 50 % of tolls on some inland roads. Now, I am a little upset when I see that the Minister is the one who is outlining the strategy to try to block, block or even postpone this decision. Therefore, it does not seem to me that anyone who defends balance, territorial justice has this function and position. But I am even more concerned when the government once again, after promising that famous transfer from Infarmed to Porto, an important institution, fundamental to entrepreneurship, defends that the only place in Portugal where such an institution could remain would be Lisbon. Finally, we all know that in Lisbon there are many international institutions, many organizations, but is it the only municipality, the only territorial area with capacity for entrepreneurship is Lisbon? Question : Why not Porto? Why not Aveiro? Why not Braga?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u28	Bragança!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u29	Why not Bragança? Why not Faro? Why not Évora? What were the criteria? Has the Minister been outraged by this decision by her Government to once again locate in the capital, where there is already a number of other institutions, this institution which was essential to be located elsewhere in order to promote territorial balance? Oh, my God! It is that territorial cohesion is not limited to the coast and the interior. The problem we now have is that of the excessive concentration in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, in relation to the rest of the country. Finally, the PRR issue. The Minister began by saying, not today, but some time ago, that this issue of resilience was not very important for territorial cohesion and for the territory. However, if there is a matter which is fundamental, which is essential for territorial cohesion or resilience, I say, it is the question of territory. Does the Minister think that a territory which has inequalities—for example, at the level of gross domestic product between the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, with 130 % of the national average, and the Thamega and Sousa, which is not internal, with 60 %— is a good warning to face health or economic crises in the future? So you think territorial cohesion is not fundamental? Oh, my God! Mrs. Minister, comparing Resende's inhabitants who receive, annually, as gross income, anything like €5400 and those who live in Oeiras who receive €13,500, don't you think that this inequality is a factor that aggravates the country's resilience problems? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u30	These asymmetries and the fight against asymmetries were not only part of the Recovery and Resilience Plan because the Portuguese Government so wanted, i.e. the same government that promises to tear the clothes off by territorial cohesion is the first to put the issues of territorial asymmetries in the drawer. In conclusion, on the question of the next Community support framework ( CSF ), the Minister said that that was where everything would be resolved. Mrs Minister, do you promise us here that the regional programmes of the next Community programming cycle will have twice the resources they currently have? Do you promise us here that there will be autonomy and capacity in the different regions to manage these programmes? Is this time that the Minister will have the political weight in her government and a decision as important as this so that we really turn from words to acts? It is that, otherwise, we remain in the narrative and propaganda, so expensive to this government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u31	You have the floor to request clarification from Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to leave you some questions regarding the PRR. First of all, I would like to say the following: from my point of view, the PRR should focus, above all, on private initiative and business, and from that point of view our vision is indeed an alternative. We do not have a divergence with regard to public entities that must apply and execute the PRR, we do not have a fundamental divergence with regard to what are public entities, we have an alternative. from our point of view, there are more and less companies. This is a different view here on the right. Secondly, this said, I would like to tell you that this PRR has a state view that is curious and that seems to me wrong. First of all, it is a state-of-the-art vision that is very focused on public functionality and on the machinery of Public Administration and, secondly, it is indeed a state-of-the-art vision that is central. It is a state vision that completely leaves out local authorities. Therefore, I would like to leave you some practical questions, Mrs. Minister. He said — and I heard in the news — that all the investments that are planned in the PRR in the area of health will be made by the municipalities. I don't think so. I don't think this is possible. But, already, it was important, to understand how decentralization is working, which is an essential factor of territorial cohesion, we know how many municipalities are already exercising competence in the area of health. It is because decentralisation, which, in fact, resulted from an agreement between the PS and the PSD, had great announcements, but began to spill very quickly—as, in fact, then the PSD noticed. And today, what was supposed to have already happened, which was the passage of all competences, happened in the competences in which it was more or less harmless, because the competences that really involved money, which really meant spending money from the central state to the authorities, were on the way, which is the case of education and health. The information we have is that in December last year only 60 municipalities had accepted to receive competences in the area of health. I'd like to know if you already have more up-to-date numbers. He then referred to two questions here. First, he said: « As for housing, they will also be the municipalities, provided they have a contract with IHRU. » But, Mrs. Minister, the IHRU is central state. I mean, it'll be the municipalities, as long as they do what the central state is saying. Mr. Minister, decentralization is not the municipalities that are responsible for works of the central State, it is the municipalities that have their own competences. I think that, from this point of view, it is only worth looking at what they will have their own powers. He also said: « The PRR has, above all, a tendering logic; the entities apply. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, that's good. If it is by competition, then, Mrs. Minister, these contests must be to be won by the best possible projects, regardless of the entities. It does not seem to me that it is the role of the Ministry that the Minister for Protection advises some entities to the detriment of others, which is more or less what she said she was going to do. I think that's not what that means, but we're still going in time to fix it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u33	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Pedro Coimbra, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u34	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members, Minister, Portugal 2030 and the PRR Recovery and Resilience Plan, are important financial instruments that the country will have at its disposal in the coming years. If it is true that the pandemic has brought us a profound health, economic and social crisis that we want and will recover, it is also true that, with the financial resources that will be made available to us by Europe, we have a great opportunity to rethink the country and thereby increase our competitiveness and quality of life for the Portuguese. Of course, the Minister, if we want an economically and socially more evolved country, the territorial cohesion, which you, the former guardian, must be at the forefront of public policies to be developed with the greatest urgency. Inevitably, these public policies must correspond to appropriate sources of funding, managed closely and with partners who know local realities, in order to make the best investment options, ensuring the need for the implementation of the many financial resources that we will have at our disposal. In other words, the RRP also designated for territorial cohesion and the strongest regional operational programmes with more autonomy would be important steps for a more just, more coherent and more supportive country. I would therefore like to ask you three questions which I think are important in this context and for these objectives. First, on Portugal 2030, what will be the main areas of support planned? Secondly, on the PRR — and it has already dealt with this issue — how can greater involvement, which I think is absolutely essential, be achieved by the CCDRs and the municipalities in their important physical and financial execution? Third, on the PRR, does it not seem to you, Minister, that this greater involvement of the CCDRs and the municipalities, with greater proximity to the territories, populations and their needs, would be evident greater value for the country and for territorial cohesion? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u35	Mr Paula Santos has the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group, to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the problems affecting the interior regions are more than identified. What is needed are solutions to solve these problems of demography, employment, public services, infrastructure, accessibility, in short, ensuring conditions for people to want to live in the interior regions and for the interior to develop. But in this debate, in addition to the usual rhetoric on the part of the PSD and on the part of the Government, we have not heard any solutions to solve these problems. The CFP brings here a very concrete issue, a question that has been contained in our Constitution for decades and that successively PSC and CDS and PS governments will be delaying, which is the creation of administrative regions. Mr. Minister, it is essential for regional development, it is fundamental for territorial cohesion, it is essential to eliminate asymmetries the creation of administrative regions, directly elected by the population, which allow for improving the provision of public services, giving consistency to the administrative organization of the State, deepening the democratic regime. However, when we ask this question, there is no answer to it or, then, the answer is: "It is not yet the time. or "Well, maybe! It is necessary to consider, see... » But the populations of these regions claim that administrative regions are being implemented. This is the question: for when? For when? It was late yesterday. That is why this is a fundamental issue and that the Government cannot continue to postpone. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u37	You have the floor, by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, to make requests for clarification, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members and Members of Parliament, Mrs Minister, the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion was created for a purpose that could even be blessed, but the practice has shown, unfortunately to the inside, that there is still a very large gap between the intentions with which this Ministry was created and the reality, which has not solved problems and, on the contrary, has even protected some. It has been the Minister herself who, when questioned here and in committees, often discards responsibility for not being the competence of your Ministry, but of another. Mr. Minister, of course, a Ministry such as yours can only function in very close connection with others, but articulation cannot mean deresponsibility and therefore there are matters that, over the time that this Ministry exists, continue to have no answer. In the initial speech, the Minister mentioned that people need to be brought inside, but this is not only with incentives or with much to happen, it is done with matters such as those which the Left Block has been presenting for a long time of public services that have closed and have to reopen, infrastructure that is very lacking in the interior and which is still late, such as those of the waste tariffs that have just been higher in the interior than on the coast, this to give only a few examples. There are two subjects on which I would like to ask you a few very specific questions. The first has to do with tolls in the interior, the ex-SCUT(user-free tolls). We know that the payment of these tolls has been very controversial since its creation and since its application because they represent another condition of injustice for these populations, companies and regions. We are reminded of the debate at the time of the State budget, of which the Minister will certainly remember. A proposal other than that submitted by the Government has finally been adopted and it is necessary to know when the Government will apply what has been approved. Or then I ask why you are choosing not to comply with what has been approved in the State Budget. on a second subject, still on mobility and transport issues, it will probably also tell us, as I have already said on other occasions, that this is the responsibility of other ministries, but this is one of the most relevant problems in these interior territories. On the one hand, we have the problem of national connection, i.e. the link between the coastal and inland territories, the north and the south, where railway links are very important. That is why, of course, we consider it important that the structural operation be by strengthening the railway, after decades of abandonment by all the parties that have been in the government until now and after closures of lines and stations, especially within the country. We also realize that it is necessary to go further, more quickly, to ensure links to Europe, to ensure that the North Line sees its altered layout to allow better links to White Castle and other districts and to ensure shorter and more environmentally efficient travel times. On the other hand, we have the problem of connections within cities and districts, a problem that may be even greater because, in these territories, connections are very weak and compromise the objective of social cohesion. in these places, the tariff reduction does not have the same impact as in other regions, because there are virtually no transport options. Finally, I ask: how does your Ministry intend to respond to these emergencies? As Minister for Territorial Cohesion, what will you do to ensure, together with your colleagues, that these problems are solved? Mr. Minister, there will be many others, but these are two issues and two relevant questions that have been left unanswered by your Ministry in the previous debates. Let's hope it's not like this today because if it's to have a territorial cohesion ministry, it has to be effective. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u39	To request clarification from the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u40	Mr President, Minister, territorial inequalities are not just a problem today. In fact, they were encouraged by decades of investment policies within the territory. This disinvestment within the country, particularly during the last PSD Government / CDS-PP, it is recalled, closed schools, health units, courts, GNR posts, CTT stations (Earths of Portugal ), distributions of finance, railway lines and boulevards, decentralized services of the Ministry of Agriculture, Freguesia, and out there. [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH laughter.]] Until the end of the legislature, I still hope to understand why the PSD is so upset when it comes to the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u41	It's true! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u42	But now, too, Mr President-in-Office of the Council is very upset when we talk about the previous government, which is interesting. It doesn't stop being interesting, I repeat.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u43	Nothing bothers me!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u44	The longer I had and the more examples I would give of closures that were made. Mr Fernando Ruas, the "car of cohesion" to which you referred from the rostrum did not only advance as you walked back. And it's been a long way back! In fact, it did not advance the cohesion car nor did it advance the coherence car, because these policies directly contributed to the loss of potential development of these territories which, without services, naturally generate less capacity to attract people and companies, fostering a vicious circle of emptying and depopulation of the interior. The way is easy to identify: if there are fewer people, services are closed; and if there are no services, no population or economic activity is fixed. Mr Minister, as we know, the State budgets reflect the guidelines and policy options for investment to take place for a given year and the Greens consider it essential that, during the debate on the State budget, the Assembly of the Republic has an effective knowledge of the situation and evolution of the country in terms of territorial inequalities. This knowledge of the reality and needs of the territory is crucial for the appropriate investment options to be made. That is why the Greens consider it essential that the State contribute to creating the conditions for the fixing of populations and not its opposite. But for this it is necessary to have information on the needs of the territory. This is exactly what the Greens wanted with a bill that was discussed about a year ago and which proposes that the Government prepare an annual report on regional asymmetries to be presented to the Assembly of the Republic before the submission of their State budgets. It happens that the PS voted against and the PSD, which is now so concerned about territorial cohesion, has not been able to vote in favour, indeed, such as the CDS-PP and the Liberal Initiative. Mrs Minister, I would like to ask you two questions which are very relevant to the subject under discussion because they are critical subjects for territorial cohesion, for combating regional asymmetries, for desertification of the interior and for abandoning the rural world. The first question is whether the Government maintains the promise of taking the train to all district capitals, as set out in the Government Programme. It was important to know the situation with regard to this promise. The second question is this: at what stage is the status of family farming? Whether or not you are aware of the role, at least in accordance with what was defined in this last State budget, what, as the Minister knows, originated in a Green proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u46	You also have the floor to ask for clarification at this first stage, Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the Minister, today on 13 May, reached the limit of the sustainable use of natural resources in Portugal for the year 2021. If all the inhabitants on Earth consumed natural resources at the rate that Portugal does, to this day, we would have exhausted all the resources available for this year. Year after year, this deadline is increasing and the health crisis has not delayed it. This awareness is fundamental and should boost the policies of production and consumption patterns, which remain largely based on the trilogy extraction-consumption-displacement. If the world imitates Portugal's footprint, we would need 2, 8 planets to respond to this extractive and productive voracity. Mr Minister, government policies continue to increase Portuguese environmental debt. The Government has a special responsibility to move forward proposals and initiatives that contribute to the necessary transition, under the penalty of, in a few decades, we have irremediably committed our future, the future of our descendants and that of the other species. at the current rate of greenhouse gas emissions, we have less than seven years until we reach the point of non-return of climate balance. This is not clearly new information, nor is it new that Portugal will be one of the European countries most affected by the effects of the climate crisis, with extreme climate events, droughts, fires, sea level rise, lack of drinking water and desertification of extensive territories. Mr. Minister, since the whole country is going to face deep climate challenges and there is, of course, regions with added challenges, it would start by talking about it. In the Alentejo and Algarve regions, for example, which face serious risks of desertification, we have seen in recent years a serious shortage of water resources with populations to be supplied by autotanks. Mr Minister, water is not an infinite resource, we cannot treat it as such and it is urgent that action be taken to use it efficiently and responsibly. It is necessary to bet on forest reorganisation in order to prevent fires and to retain water on the ground. The country continues to await the development of adaptation plans for climate change, both at regional level and at local level, which will guide companies in the actions and investments to be carried out. So, Mrs Minister, in view of the scientific evidence you will know, we ask you: what plans does the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion have to combat the risk of desertification of regions such as Alentejo and Algarve? What role will your Ministry play in the urgent need for forest and agricultural reorganisation in these areas? What has your Ministry done to regulate intensive and superintensive agricultural activities? at this moment, Mrs. Minister, as Odemira has shown or reminded us, exploitation of people and exploitation of nature are closely linked. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that another risk facing the country due to climate change is the flood of several coastal areas, from north to south, due to the rise in sea level. Several studies indicate that in less than 30 years, we will have drastic consequences in densely populated regions. Therefore, when the NAP talks about the possible need for relocation of villages and their infrastructures to the interior, we cannot wait for the sea to wet our feet. We are talking about very significant investments at national level, which have to be planned in due course and we cannot forget that most of the population and business tissue are located precisely on the coast. I ask you, then, Minister : for the sake of territorial cohesion, are the risk areas properly identified by the Government? Have plans been developed to deal with these risks? Do you agree with the NAP's proposal for the development of a climate change risk atlas at national and at a local and regional level, which identifies all existing risks based on different climate scenarios and which, in addition to guiding State action priorities, is made public so that economic and social actors can also engage in the planning of their activities and, of course, in the conversion of highly polluting industries with the appropriate support of the State?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u48	Mr Ventura has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u49	Mr President, Mrs Minister, I was going to ask you two questions, but first of all, I cannot help answering Mr. José Luís Ferreira that I have no problem with Dr. Passos Coelho. I have a problem with the lack of truth, because the extreme left insists that this government was the only one responsible for all the ills in the country. [[PCP and ENP protests.]] Mr. Deputie, I remember that it was 2015, about territorial cohesion, that António Costa said the tolls on the Via do Infante were to finish. And I didn't see you worrying about criticizing that.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u50	It was the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u51	I saw him worried about attacking the PSD and not attacking the Minister, who represents the Government of Antonio Costa. I heard this Minister here saying that in mid 2019 all the houses hit by the fire tragedies would be repaired. And it was not the PSD that was there, Mr. Deputies, was the Government of the Socialist Party. My problem, Mr. Deputy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u52	What is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u53	...is not with PSD or Rabbit Steps. My problem is with the lack of truth that the extreme left insists on placing whenever it speaks of the Government of Pedro Passos Coelho and the Government of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u54	Right? Oh, my God! What truth? Are you really talking? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u55	By the way... [[Protests by PEV Member José Luís Ferreira and PCP Members.]] Let me finish! Let me finish! By the way, I'd like to know... [[PCP protests.]] [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u56	Mr President, we are now making a waiting compass and then a running compass, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister spoke of a population change programme for the interior. For at the end of last year we learned that if this program succeeds, 250 people will move from cities to the interior. It looks like a joke — 250 people! The great socialist program of population transfer from the coast to the interior can change 250 people! There are more people living in a condominium in Lisbon than that number of people who have changed. So it was important to explain which are... [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Mr. Deputies, be calm with Dr. Passos Coelho! Dr. Steps Rabbit won 10 times on his bench — 10 times! It took the PCP to be born 10 times to win the election to Pedro Passos Coelho! They had to be born 10 times for that to happen! All of you, 10 times! Probably 10, 15, 20 was what was needed...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u58	34? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u59	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to increase your level and lower your volume. Mr President, I also ask you to move quickly to the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u60	Mr. President, thank you very much. Madam Minister, I ask you one last question related to the resilience plan, which said it was an integral plan, but when we look at it we realize that it is an entire investment in Public Administration and tendingly zero investment in companies and private initiative. It was important to explain to the Portuguese, who also make their investments and have greatly contributed to Portugal being what it is today, how much we will have for the private initiative in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u61	Love stories are very beautiful, really! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u62	Even in the first round of questions, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor. As you know, 19 is a prime number, so it can't divide by two, and this year much less, so you are here at the border. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u63	Mr President, especially this reference to cousins... [[Laughing.]] Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister, in her initial speech, said that without the municipalities it would not be possible to comply with the PRR, until as of March there are new competences that will be entrusted to them. Let's see if this will be, and I suspect that will not be the real reason why the PPR will not be executed. But if in his words the municipalities are fundamental, it is even more strange that they have not been involved in the PRR process itself, in such a way that the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities comes to accuse the government of not having involved them. And even more strange is that at the summit of the various committees that will rule the PRR, especially in the interministerial committee, in which we have five ministries, no one has remembered including territorial cohesion in this absolutely crucial instrument. I wonder where territorial cohesion is and if this is a demonstration of a lack of political weight from your Ministry. Perhaps because of this, when Brussels led the roads and some works that were in the PRR, the first solution the government finds — and there with the approval of Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, of course, was to withdraw money from a 5G auction, which is ending, putting it to finance what the PRR did not want to finance. And what did those 5G auction funds do for? For high-speed networks in the interior, in particular, being postponed sine die. Lack of political weight again, Minister? Then we have the problem of the Setúbal Peninsula, on which I have to ask you the following: we have been discussing for years the creation of the NUT III (Nomenclature of the Territorial Units for Statistical Purposes) of the Setúbal Peninsula, which is one of the three or four poorest regions of the continent. And we just don't know if it's the third or fourth because INE hasn't published autonomous statistical data for years, but it's one of the poorest regions on the continent, which is being penalized for belonging to the NUT II of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. On 4 November, the Minister said here, in the debate of the Budget, that the creation of the NUT III was urgent; on 28 January, she said that it was not only urgent as it should not be possible, because it fragmented the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon and would have strategic consequences. No one knew exactly what that meant, but in April he was studying again the hypothesis of creating the NUT III. Last week, Mr. Secretary of State Carlos Miguel again closed the door to the creation of the NUT III, again talking about the fragmentation of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon but not alluding to these secret strategic consequences. But what fragmentation of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, Mrs. Minister? Oh, my God! It is a political decision, fragmented if you want and if you have an interest in the country, and in this case it is not only the interior, in Portugal, that needs to be looked at, the Peninsula of Setúbal also needs. And then what are the strategic consequences? To harm the interests of Lisbon here, too? The political weight of Lisbon is being overshadowed by the lack of political weight of its Ministry. But, Madam Minister, I think I have an explanation for the lack of political weight, which is the political gymnastics that this Ministry has had to do. I said here a month ago that, as much as this Ministry is doing the pine and going to ask colleagues, it is very difficult to increase the list of institutions located inside. This was about the Europe Startup Nations Alliance / Alliance of Nations, already mentioned here, which came to Lisbon when it had no need to do. So, Mrs Minister, I ask you: is it because of all this political gymnastics that your Ministry lacks political weight?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u64	To respond to this set of nine requests for clarification, you have the floor of the Minister of Territorial Cohesion. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which has been addressed by many Members. With regard to the question of the Plan, I would like to stress the following: companies will receive direct support of EUR 5000 million through the Recovery and Resilience Plan — of course here I am including capitalisation, EUR 1500 million for capitalisation, which can go up to EUR 5000 million; EUR 1364 million for the mobilization agendas; EUR 715 million for decarbonisation; EUR 650 million for the digital transition; EUR 614 million for the qualification of human resources in companies; EUR 145 million will be allocated to the sustainable economy. And only here have I added EUR 5000 million. Therefore, they represent 30 % of the RPP. But we will all agree that investments in industrial areas, investments in public administration digitisation, greater economic justice, a better business environment, the quality of public finances and investments in energy are also important for business investment. Therefore, in indirect support for the business sector we have identified EUR 2, EUR 7 billion. It is regrettable that only one third of direct investment is directed at companies, but I ask: are not the companies also the final recipients of most of the works planned for the public sector? Who will do these works? Aren't they companies? Are not companies also beneficiaries of other PRR measures, as I have just mentioned, if we have a better Public Administration, if we have better qualifications, if we have better health, if we have better education? Is it not also the beneficiary companies? For me, it is a reduced controversy to separate public investment from private investment, as if public investment was not productive, which, in my view, could not be more wrong. We do not have a future without a decisive bet on education, we do not have a future without a strategic health bet, we do not have a future without a modernization and training of the Public Administration. With regard to the Recovery and Resilience Plan and answering various questions, we have planned 1384 million for health. of these, about 500 million are for primary health care, with more answers. And this is an investment that will be made by the municipalities. Then we have the National Network of Integrated Continued Care (RNCCI) and the National Network of Palliative Care. They are entities in the social sector that will make these investments. We then have the hospital equipment, which, of course, are from the E.P.E. hospitals. .................................................................................. We also have digitization in the area of health, the Universal Active Life Support System (USAVA). We're talking about investments that will be made by social economy entities. In housing, we have more than EUR 2700 million planned. Only for 1st. the Law ( Access to Housing Support Programme ), we have 1211 million euros and I want to inform you that it is the municipalities that have competence in building social housing. Therefore, when I mentioned that they have to articulate with the IHRU, the municipalities have this competence and they are going to make the overwhelming majority of the investment in housing. I have already said that for companies we have a great challenge in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, but I would still like to stress that companies do not lack support. If we consider the value of Portugal 2020 which is still to be implemented by companies, if we consider the value that we have in the Recovery and Resilience Plan for companies, if we consider the about EUR 5000 million we have in the next Community Support Framework and if we consider the value that we have planned — and that was an emergency instrument — in the REACH-EU ( Recovery Assistance for Cohesion and the Territories of Europe), we are talking about global support for enterprises of EUR 14, EUR 5 billion. Therefore, it will not be for lack of funds that our companies will not have support for their projects. And I would like to say again that it is reducing to divide or we want to artificially separate public investment from private investment, when we know the importance of public investment — however, when we talk about cohesion — also for competitiveness. We also do not deny the importance of private investment, because it is indeed the companies that create wealth and employment. As far as regionalisation is concerned, unfortunately, it is not in the Government's programme to do regionalisation — unfortunately, I say because I am a regionalist public, but it is not in the Government's programme to do regionalisation either.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u66	But it's in the Constitution!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u67	What is in the Government Programme is to increase the competences of regional coordination and development committees and to increase the decentralization of municipalities. Therefore, we consider it absolutely essential to increase decentralization for municipalities, as well as to increase the power, competence and autonomy of regions. As I have been asked several questions related to the tolls, I would like to say that, as you know, the measure adopted in the State budget has heavy budgetary implications. Even in the full period of confinement, it was public and it was reported that, in the first quarter, fortunately, families and businesses save EUR 2, 6 million. It was therefore a decision that was taken and adopted in the State budget. I have already made it clear that, from the legal analysis that has been made, it has been concluded that the rules are not unconstitutional but have great implications, namely the weight of these implications in the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing must be reassessed and we must find compensation. at this time, the Government and the main ministries involved — the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing, including, of course, the Ministry of Finance — are evaluating and studying this process. We are evaluating different solutions to, of course, implement an approved measure in the State budget and we have already concluded that it was constitutional. Therefore, at the moment, the Government is working to find solutions to implement the reduction of tolls, as approved in this Assembly of the Republic. I must say that you have never heard this minister say that this was not the Ministry. The problem is that the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion cannot be the Ministry of Agriculture, it cannot be the Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing, it cannot be the Ministry of Health. Of course, when the problems are raised, we associate ourselves with these ministries. As far as rail links are concerned, it remains a priority for the Government to have rail links with all district capitals. They continue to be a priority of this government not only internal railway links such as international links, not only in the Atlantic corridor, but also in the southern corridor and Beira Alta corridor. So, even in other issues that have been put to us, and I am talking, in particular, on the Douro Line, this Ministry is working on a solution, with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing — the conclusion of the Douro Line was approved here in general unanimously — and with the inter-municipal community. With regard to the problem of water and the environment, Mrs Deputy, never as today the Ministry or the Government had so many concerns. We have planned a hydrographic plan for the Algarve, which involves 200 million, but we also have planned specific projects, including between Alentejo and Algarve, which aim at this water theme. As regards risk areas or risk atlases, they are currently being done by the inter-municipal communities, including funded by this Ministry, through regional operational programmes. As far as weight and gymnastics are concerned, I will respond in the second part, but, Mr President, do not worry about the good shape of the Ministry or the Minister. [[P.S.'s applause and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u68	We will then enter the second series of requests for clarification, which are 10, and we will begin with Mrs Cláudia André of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u69	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the interior of the country is the most valuable territory of Portugal. The parents and grandparents of most inhabitants of the big cities are in the interior. There, nature is preserved, energy is produced and water is conserved as in no other region of our country. There we preserve the immaterial heritage of the identity of the "Portuguese" as anywhere else in the world and respect the "other" as few do. Schools are the most inclusive. There is no school of the rich nor the school of the poor, there is only one, and therefore the opportunities, the teachers are the same. Many achieve the best results in the country, finish high school and follow to the big city, where they are the universities that have more and more students, to the detriment of universities and interior politics, who lose students, dynamism and financial capacity to invest more in research and development. That's how our young people go and don't come back. They do not return because skilled and well-paid jobs multiply in large cities, where private and public enterprises are set up, they do not return because the challenges are in the big city, they do not return because they need the future and young people do not find this future in the country. Many promises, many plans, yes, pass into history, and history does not pass from a story to deceive and not to enchant. This is what happens, for example, with the history of the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior. It was a love story, pretty... In 2017, after the devastating fires, the government did and said anything to calm the souls. So he settled this unit in Great Pedrogon, and made it with great pump and circumstance. Today, the Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior is not known either large activities or employees that make any difference in the Interior Pinhal, or anywhere else in the country. I ask you, Minister : have you closed the Mission Unit yet? We recall that in 2018 Minister Siza Vieira announced 164 measures of this Unit for the interior. He then said: they are measures to « attract investment to the interior territories in order to create employment that sets populations ». He said it in Portalegre, a council to whom they promised a national school for GNR, and no project is known, a council that only between 2016 and 2019, lost more than 700 inhabitants. By now, Pedrogão Grande has lost more than 100. But we can also ask: has there been a significant increase in new companies in these territories? Mrs. Minister, I know you talked about a year ago to this part, because your Ministry has only existed since then, but this government, this PS, has been ruling for five years. And no, there is no significant increase in companies! Have the tolls of the former SCUT decreased to reduce the cost of the context of businesses and residents of the interior? Don't! No, Mrs. Minister, this didn't happen! Is the population living in the interior growing or, at least, continuing? No, not either! In short, is the appreciation of the interior happening? No, Mrs. Minister, I'm sorry to disagree with you but you're not! Mrs. Minister, you are defending a PS government that has been ruling for five years and there are no signs of retrogress in the loss process of the population. Between 2016 and 2019, CIM das Beiras and Serra da Estrela lost more than 7200 residents, CIM da Beira Baixa lost 2500 residents. This is more than 3 % in four years, Mrs. Minister! The Minister has already had the courage to assume that, and I quote, or close to it, « it is almost impossible for her ministry (...) to be able to convince other Ministries to deconcentrate services that are bad in Lisbon and that should be in the rest of the country ». We understand that the real problem is the desdem and stigma these rulers have from within, but, Madam Minister, remember your colleagues who, despite everything, the interior already has electricity and drinking water and even has cultural libraries and complexes. And remind them that one day they will be able to wake up and have only one quarter of the territory to rule, because the rest — who knows? Oh, my God! — it will be on account of the Spaniards. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u70	Mr Nuno Fazenda of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u71	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs State Secretarys, I would like to begin by greeting the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party for bringing to debate the issue of territorial cohesion, which is a very important issue. But it is not surprising that it is the PSD to propose this issue, because in fact the PSD curriculum on territorial cohesion has to do with the following: closure of public services, which has already been well remembered here by the MEP ;... [[PSD protests.]] ... leaving the railway, which is also an unforgettable fact, in fact now, over 12 years, we are reopening some lines, such as the Lower Beira Line; elimination of the tax benefits of companies;... [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]] ... and great responsibilities in the introduction of tolls in the ex-SCUT. [[Continuation of protests by PSD Member Cláudia André.]] I know it's unpleasant to hear, but that's the curriculum they have to present in terms of territorial cohesion. That's the curriculum! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Madam Minister, we must, in fact, continue to strengthen policies in favour of the interior. We turned the page a few years ago. Over the past five or six years, very positive steps have been taken in favour of territorial cohesion. It is worth recalling some examples: public services have been reopened which others have closed, for example, more than 20 courts, and could continue with many examples;... [[It's true!]] [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u72	... the tax benefits for companies have been resumed; the Community funds have supported and discriminated positively within; there have never been so many competitions specific to the interior, and indeed, the Minister, today, reminded - here - for the companies, for the hiring, for the IPSS, for science, where more than 60% of the projects approved in 2020 have gone inland. In higher education, the number of students has been increasing in the universities and polytechnics of the interior. There have also been several public investments: on the highway, with IP3 ;... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u73	... in the railroad, with the Douro Line or the Lower Beira Line, which, after 12 years closed, was reopened days ago;... [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]] ...in education; in schools. In the tolls, there have also been reductions. In fact, in the last legislation we have twice reduced the value of the tolls and, this year, we are already reducing. But it is ironic that the PSD Parliamentary Group, in the last fiscal year, made here a proposal to reduce 50 % on the tolls and on the following day voted against the instrument that made it possible to reduce 50 % on the tolls. It is political coherence almost at the level of the arrival, which, within 24 hours, can have three opinions on the same subject, in the case of the New Bank. Some coherence was important! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u74	It's the logic of potato!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u75	Mr Minister, the path of support to the interior must be continued on several fronts, and also on tolls, of course, in particular in the next cycle of Community funds. So I would like to ask you two questions: what areas do you consider to be priority areas for the development of the interior in the coming years? And what instruments and funds does the Government have at its disposal to enhance and continue the development of the interior of Portugal? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u76	You have the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Antonio Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u77	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs Secretary of State, the Minister, in her initial speech, used an expression that is not very encouraging, saying « I want to believe in the development of the interior ». It is that "we want to believe"... we all want to believe in a lot of things and between wanting to believe and truly believe there is indeed a great difference. The problem of the development of the interior of the country is not the lack of speeches and proclamations, the problem is that the acts have usually been contrary to the proclamations and intentions expressed by various governments, both the PSD and the CDS, and also the Socialist Party. But this is about the following: the concept of the SCUTs, of the cost-free highways for the user, was introduced precisely by a Government of the Socialist Party in order to improve accessibility and promote the development of the interior. It happens that PSD and CDS governments, which have always been against this concept and have always defended the idea of the user-payer, introduced tolls in the generality of the SCUTs and the Socialist Party never agreed to abolish these tolls, going to the meeting, in fact, of what was the initial spirit of creation of the SCUTs. Well, the PCP has been insisting on the abolition of tolls in the SCU, together with the populations, with the autarchs and even with the PS and PSD members, that in their districts that are crossed by SCUT, intransigently, with the populations and the autarchies, but then here in the Assembly of the Republic, confronted with proposals from the PCP in this sense, have an amnesia in relation to what they have been defending in their districts, and what we have seen in the State Budget was that the proposals of the PCP for the abolition of tolls have been rejected, ending up with the adoption of a proposal from the PSD to make "a attention" to the populations, reducing the tolls in the SCUTs from 1 July. Well, Mrs Minister, what I wanted to say to you — and now I am telling you — is that I want to believe that, with this proposal, even limited as it is and with the obstacles that the PSD itself has in charge of introducing into the draft which was adopted on 1 July, the discounts in the SCU are effectively in force, as is determined in the State Budget Act. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u78	Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor by the Parliamentary Group 'The Greens'.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in recent decades, many have been the debates and promises of measures and investments to strengthen territorial cohesion and mitigate regional asymmetries, while closing public services, concentrating them and dislocating their management to urban centres. The closure of public services has been justified because there are fewer and fewer users, but it has a dominant effect. It is a disastrous policy, taken in recent years, which is felt today, making it impossible to attract people and businesses, leading to the exit of the younger people who seek work and quality of life, to which public services contribute positively in other places, particularly in large urban centres. The State should contribute to creating conditions for fixing populations and not the opposite. The interior, in addition to being depopulated, is becoming increasingly ageing, with elderly living alone and isolated, at risk for their safety, demanding an adequate social response. The elderly support network, almost exclusively dependent on IPSS or the private sector, falls far short of the needs of this population range. The closure of primary health care limits its constitutional right to health, while the reduced or non-existent supply of public transport makes it even more difficult to access these services. Public transport and the mobility of the population are important factors for territorial cohesion, however, the mobility weaknesses within the municipalities and in regional connections are immense, especially outside the educational periods. The « holy market», in the hands of those with the supply, more concerned with invoicing than with ensuring transport to the population, does not respond to the needs, as confirmed during the epidemic, in which the populations were left without any type of transport. It also brings together the cost of transport, which, despite the PART(Tax Reduction Support Programme in Public Transport), are more expensive than in large metropolitan areas. As if it was not enough in 2011, the PSD/CDS Government implemented what was established by a PS Government, introducing tolls into the ex-SCUT and IP ( main routes ). The Minister now says that she will try to lower the toll values when the government and the PS have already prevented its abolition several times. The interior populations don't go there anymore, Mrs. Minister! This, in addition to hampering the mobility of populations, led to the definition of many companies, which saw significantly increase the costs of production derived from transport. The territorial disarticulation between the coast and the interior, urban and rural will only be able to be overcome with a solid base of public investment and with the strengthening of quality public services. contrary to what the right often claims, public services are not a burden to the state, but a decisive factor for territorial cohesion. It is about these issues that we would like to hear the government make commitments, because, despite the many expectations that were created in the country with the Recovery and Resilence Plan, which promises to contribute to promote territorial cohesion, the truth is that the planned investment lines can end up doing exactly the opposite, increasing asymmetries, taking into account that most measures and investments are directed to the large urban areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u81	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Lopes, for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u82	Mr President, Minister for Territorial Cohesion, Secretary of State for the Valorization of the Interior, Mrs. Under-Secretarys of State and Regional Development and Parliamentary Affairs, Portugal has before it a great opportunity to achieve the goals of reducing inequalities and promoting a more balanced development of the territory. The digital transition and the impact of 4G and 5G networks can be a territorial development engine. Portugal remains incomprehensible as far as 5G is concerned, without any commercial offer only from Lithuania and Malta. Yes! Portugal, Lithuania and Malta are the only countries in the European Union that do not yet have the fifth generation of the mobile network. In the face of the accusations between the operators and ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ), the Government is not aware of the problem, seeming to be interested only in an attachment which is already more than 380 million euros, in an auction which is eternal, and is already exceeding 80 days. By the way, Mrs Minister — no one understands anymore! — after all, does the auction revenue go to the construction of links, cross-border links or other roads? I am referring to those who have been removed from this latest version of the PRR delivered in Brussels. Or, as Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transition said, will these revenues help speed up network coverage in some regions, where there is still no 3G or 4G? What are we left with, Mrs. Minister? Oh, my God! It is that the interior needs both connectivity and road and rail. 5G technology is critical in the train of digital transformation. As in all other technological vacancies, those who take the front usually gain advantage. Portugal is thus on the foothold of this TGV (high-speed train) with the aggravating that there are no footholds in the interior. What assurances can the Minister give the localities of the interior that they will not be without 5G coverage, as they have been without mobile communications, without internet and even without TDT ( terrestrial digital television)?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u84	The news of Leonor, the village of Serapicos, in Vimio County, is still present, who had to walk "to the internet hunt" in order to be able to attend classes in this last confinement. But, you know, Minister, how many « Leonores» exist within the country? Oh, my God! What about companies and public services? Oh, my God! Concepts such as the Internet of Things, clouds and artificial intelligence enable companies, regardless of their different locations, to work as a team in real time. The discourse of the more cohesive, the more digital, the more x, the more y, the more z, the more, the more, the more repetitive, but mine and our interior, Mrs. Minister, has less and less and less. Mr. Minister, one last question: since the beginning of this government, how many public services and employees have been relocated from large metropolitan areas to the interior? How many are expected to relocate until the end of the term of office? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u85	You have the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias, for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Territorial Cohesion, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys, I would like to mention the importance of public services in combating territorial inequality and in particular the National Health Service. We all know the importance that the National Health Service has for territorial cohesion. The Minister referred to this same importance by presenting the solution of the deresponsibility of the central administration of this important national service in relation to the authorities. The path in the PCP's view cannot be that nor can it be the one that has been followed by successive PSD governments, the CDS and also the PS, with the consent of the PS and the current government. I speak of the way of fragility of the National Health Service, its underfunding until its final privatization. That's why we don't agree, because the National Health Service can't be a business. We must view the National Health Service as a decisive element in the proximity of populations, ensuring their access to health, through the improvement of their quality of life. It is in this sense that we point to the problems that we need to solve. They only resolve themselves by promoting, from the very outset, the opening of the health extensions closed with the excuse of the pandemic and which are now so important that they are, to counter the concentration of people in the city halls, promoting the construction of new hospitals — I give the example of the Central Hospital of Alentejo — and also with the benefit of existing hospitals, investing in equipment and improving infrastructure. With regard to the appreciation of health professionals and their careers, Ms. Minister, it is necessary to create more proximity services. The CFP has proposals, Mrs Minister, that meet the needs of the populations, territories, strengthening the National Health Service and public services in general. Therefore, Mrs Minister, I ask you whether you are willing to follow the PCP in the solutions that you have brought to this House to answer the questions of the National Health Service and public services. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u87	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr José Rui Cruz, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u88	Mr President, Minister for Territorial Cohesion, Secretary of State for the Valorization of the Interior, Mrs. Under-Secretary-General for State and Regional Development and Parliamentary Affairs, Members, the Interior Valuation Programme includes measures which are, in most cases, financed through national and European funds, with a great contribution from the regional European funds, managed by regional operational programmes through the coordination and regional development committees, and from the cooperation funds, with specific allocations and increases, criteria adapted to the interior territories. These measures aim to combat regional asymmetries and promote the development of regions so that the quality of life of their populations is closer to that of the populations of the most developed regions of Europe. Regional OP(operational programmes) have played a very important role and have been real drivers of territorial cohesion. Mrs. Minister, in PT 2030, can we count on stronger regional POs and more autonomy? In view of the fact that the PRR had a very centralized concept, in the opinion of some, what will be the role of the CCDRs, CIMs and municipalities in the implementation of the funds? Is there a clear definition of the role of each of these entities? Mr President of the Republic said some days ago that the RPP funds must be managed in a decentralized manner, since most projects assume proximity to management. CCDRs, CIMs and municipalities are used to this. If you want an implementation rate close to 100 %, this is easier with the intervention and participation of those closest to the ground. Can you give us your opinion on these words from the President of the Republic? To conclude, I would like to congratulate and note to the Government on the investments planned in the area of oncology, the Tondela-Viseu Hospital Centre, the railway, the Douro Line, the High Beira Line and also on the new Aveiro-Viseu-Mangualde link. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u89	For a request for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Territorial Cohesion, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the Brussels cassation, fell from the PRR below the various national roads and CI (additional routes) which are so lacking to the populations. We already know that you will be talking about the resolution of the Council of Ministers this month, which is for five roads, but there is a wide range of investments in the national road network that have been postponed for many years and which the government says nothing about. The question that arises is not on a point-to-point basis in small extensions. The problem is the comprehensive conclusion of structural axes of the territory: the IC8, between Pombal and Ansion ; IP2 or IP8, in the Alentejo, throughout its extension; EN225, which links Castro Daire-Arouca-Vila Nova de Paiva ; or the connection of IC9 to A1. Moreover, territorial cohesion also goes through investments to promote the development of productive sectors. Consider the case of the variant to EN378 to the Port of Sesimbra, which has been marked for almost two decades. How does the Government respond to the population, which has long claimed these investments? As regards public transport, what response does the Government have to respond to the unacceptable and increasingly worse situation, including in the express service, which is also the result of the government's decisions on this matter? The country even needs a national public road operator to end this abandonment of the populations of the interior in this sector. Even to finish, Mrs. Minister, we went back to the issue of NUT III on the Setúbal Peninsula. What's the difficulty, Minister? Oh, my God! Why have we spent so much time without any concrete government on this issue? Oh, my God! To restore the NUT III, which the PSD in the Government has either removed to promote fair access in this region to the structural funds and public investment, what concrete measures are being taken? Will it end, or not, with the blackmail of the exit of the AML (Losboa Metropolitan Area )? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u91	You now have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Eduardo Teixeira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u92	Mr President, Minister for Territorial Cohesion, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you. Mr. Minister, the level of regional asymmetries Portugal presents is not the same in a developed country but, rather, in a depressed country in view of the sad reality of the marked ageing of populations, of weak dynamism, of vulnerability of soils and forests and of the desertification of vast rural areas. Precisely, we cannot talk about territorial cohesion without addressing a millennial activity, present throughout our territory, whose extravagant, and much, the economic and social issue. To talk about territorial cohesion is to talk about the rural world and our agricultural livelihood, its multifunctionality, which is now surrounded by numerous depreciative, unfounded, deeply unfair and dangerous criticisms. Critics are unfair, because they associate agricultural subsistence with bad environmental practices, ignoring the enormous technological leap of the agricultural sector in recent decades, and are dangerous, because they represent the growth of doctrines deprived of reality and our social roots, without any connection to the territory, boosting the risk of agricultural abandonment. In a country where the agri-food deficit with the outside is EUR 3.5 billion, the social and environmental ruin that the territories will have if they do not bet on a strong agricultural and forestry sector is a decisive factor for our national sovereignty. The bet on national agriculture is thus paramount and a factor of modernity and sustainability that also allows the attraction of quality tourism and the generation of national wealth and decentralized employment. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, intolerance towards the rural world is today a huge risk to cohesion policy. We cannot ambitious a more fair, balanced and more supportive territory without integrative and potentiating public policies in the various regions, but, strangely, we have witnessed a disruptive speech in Portugal in recent years that undermines cohesion in the territory. The PSD aims at a more coherent, socially balanced and environmentally sustainable territory. Therefore, we defend public policies friendly to the environment and friends of the territory, because being a friend of the environment is to defend the valorization and revitalization of rural space, with a strong and dynamic productive system and with people in the territory. The country really has to become viewed as a whole. Territorial cohesion must indeed be a reality and must be taken seriously so that it can thus create income and purchasing power for citizens. I came from Alto Minho, from Viana do Castelo, a municipality of the coast with characteristics of interiority, since it was the last (the twentyth) district capital with less purchasing power from Portugal, precisely because, in the absence of local policies of territorial cohesion in the last decades, the primary sector was abandoned as a source of wealth and promoted rural desertification—among many other reasons, this being just one example— which makes the need for cohesion imperative in all national, interior or coastal, because Portugal is not only Lisbon and Porto. I would therefore like to leave a few questions to the Minister. How will the PRR be operationalized to address these problems? If gastronomy is a source of wealth and has a strong tourist potential, how can it be valued without endogenous products in the territories? How can we do this without a bet on national agricultural products of excellence? Is the government committed to gambling in the regadion as a fundamental element of cohesion or not? What Community funds will it have for this purpose? What amendments does the Government advocate for better intervention by the Local Action Groups ( LAGs ) within the next Community Support Framework, such as rural development policy, particularly in pastoral activity? Defending the rural world and enhancing regional development, much more than a challenge, is a genuine national design. There is political courage in the face of such an attempt to centralize and the excessive concentration to be seen in the action of this government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u93	For the last request for clarification in this series, Mr João Oliveira, of the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u94	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you some questions that have to do with the debate we are discussing today on territorial cohesion and the need for investment in rail transport as an element of territorial cohesion and guaranteeing the right of populations to mobility. In particular, I want to raise four questions, the first being about the integral modernization of the Alentejo Line. It is not only between White House and Beja, it is between White House and Beja and also between Beja and Ourique. The second question concerns the guarantee of rail transport of passengers throughout the connection of Sines to Caia, because it cannot only be until Évora. The section between Évora and Elvas also needs to have ensured the conditions for the rail transport of passengers. The third question concerns the replacement of the regional passenger transport service on the Alentejo coast, an essential issue to ensure that that region—which, despite being coastal, remains forgotten from the point of view of the conditions for its development—and those populations enjoy the right to mobility in terms of rail transport. Finally, the question of the modernization of the West Line. Despite being a coastal territory, people are forgotten about the conditions of development, particularly about access to rail transport. These questions, Mrs. Minister, are decisive. These are areas in which investment is needed not only in railway infrastructure, but also in stations and terminals that are necessary to ensure the transport of passengers, not only to guarantee the conditions and improve the quality of the rail service of passengers, in particular with the electrification of lines where there is no such, but also with the guarantee by the CP of rail transport of passengers where such material conditions already exist, in relation to infrastructures and in relation to electrification. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u95	To reply, you have the floor of Mr. Minister of Territorial Cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to answer the questions of two Members who are no longer here, so was your interest in the answer. With regard to the concern of Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo on the weight of this Ministry in the Government, I would like to say that the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion has a seat in the monitoring committee, which is where we should be to follow the implementation of the Recovery and Resilience Plan. He also said that the roads were removed from the PRR and were financed with 5G funds and asked what happened to digital connectivity. He certainly did not have time to read the entire resolution of the Council of Ministers of 3 May, where, in paragraph 7, he said, « determines that the use of amounts from the 5G electronic auction, in the amounts and for the objectives set out in this resolution(...) ». This means that the projects for the IC35—Sever do Vouga / IP5 ( A25 ), the connection to IP3 from the municipalities to the south, the IC31 — Castelo Branco / Monfortinho; the EN341 — Alfarelos ( EN342 ) / Taveiro ; the IC6 — Table / Follhadosa, which were in the PRR, are financed with 5G revenues and are not financed with Community funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u97	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u98	As you know, Community funds have stopped financing the road from Portugal 2020, i.e. since 2014 we cannot allocate Community funds to the road. We have done the following: the revenue of the 5G finance these roads and the funds of the Regional Operational Programme, protected by this Minister, see only the lack of negotiating power in the government! — they will finance the digital connectivity of the interior territories,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... as stated in resolution (...) in order to ensure full coverage of the country with a fifth-generation network of communications, in particular in low-density territories and insufficiently covered by 5G auctions. We are working on the full identification of the 'white areas' of the interior territories in order to prepare an international competition, as we did in the previous Community Support Framework, so that we can launch international public competitions and that operators can make the investment that private operators will not make in this 5G auction, because it is not commercially attractive. Therefore, when there is market failure, the State invests or subsidizes those it invests. This funding will be made with funds from Portugal 2030 and at the same time we will make the roads that emerged from the Recovery and Resilience Plan. We will not harm the connectivity of the interior by financing it through the Regional Operational Programmes. Mr. Arrival's Member was also very concerned and he was disenchanting...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u99	So much so that he's gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u100	He must have more important things to do than hear the answer. As I was saying, the honourable Member was disenchanting the government's programmes to take 250 people inside. We're talking about a program you opened in August, in the middle of a pandemic. But he does not know—because he certainly does not know the inside—that 250 people are very welcome to the inside. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But you're wrong about the numbers. Certainly you have not read the news that, through the Work Program in the Interior, we have already managed to capture 350 people and, through the Return Program, 4370 people. We're talking about 4720 people. We'll have the greatest pleasure in providing the data. I would say that even if there were 250 people, this minister would be very pleased because they are very welcome. We know the difference families make in schools, in trade, in everything, in the interior. So, only someone who doesn't even know the reality of the interior is that he can deduce 250 people in the interior territories. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the question of the importance of higher education institutions in the interior, which Mrs Cláudia André of the PSD mentioned, I would like to leave an initial clarification. The Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior disappeared because a Ministry was created. She existed and disappeared with the creation of the Ministry. It's just a technical note, to clarify, and I don't want to say anything else. I must point out that, in the international rankings of educational institutions, our interior politics are those who have the best rankings. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, we are very proud of our interior polytechnics. I know that the honourable Member also has and I know that when she made this remark it was because she wants more for these territories. The honourable Member also referred to schools. I must say that, as we have already done in the QREN (National Strategic Reference Framework), we are making an investment through Community funds in the qualification of schools that exceeds EUR 600 million. Most of this investment, i.e. more than half, is in indoor schools. And it's in indoor schools because we don't have Excel in mind; if we had Excel in mind, in many schools we couldn't be making investments. Why? Because they have a small number of students. The problem is that if we are always applying Excel, we stop doing schools and families move away from these territories. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to point out, in reply to the honourable Member of the CFP, that we cannot agree more on the importance of the area of health for territorial cohesion, nor can we agree more on the importance of education and public services. Otherwise, we cannot even retain the people who live there and much less attract people and investments, not even tourism, because one of the sources of income in our interior territories is tourism and must not be the only one. We have already seen the problem of monocultures — the pandemic has also brought us this lesson — but we will not have tourism if we are not healthy. I would therefore like to say that, through the Community funds—and that is what is being implemented—we have open warnings taking advantage of everything that is left over from Portugal 2020, which will be for health, education and a warning that we will soon open for companies. We now have 216 health equipment funded through the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion—I am not announcing measures, I am talking about works on the ground and I can give you the list of equipment —...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u101	Go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u102	... representing an investment of EUR 550 million, with support from European funds of almost EUR 300 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Most are nearby health and health care centers. We also have some hospitals — few — but we have included here the central hospital of Alentejo, in Évora, which already has assured funding of EUR 40 million. The environmental impact study is being completed and the reprogramming of this equipment will be carried out in order to have more funding not only in Portugal 2020 but also in Portugal 2030.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u103	Madam Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u104	Therefore, it is a commitment that the government has to this equipment. I shall finish, Mr President, although much remains to be said. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u105	We have moved on to a period of intervention, and Mr Pedro Morais Soares, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u106	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the installation of a startup in Lisbon, Ms. Minister of Territorial Cohesion said that it is "almost impossible" for the relocation of services, « as much as it is done for it and is going to ask for it ». What I want to talk about is not about your requests or not. I want to talk about a sector that contributes, and much, to territorial cohesion. More than talking about tax policies to promote the fight against desertification and the establishment of people in the interior, including an internal tax status, as the CDS has already advocated, I want to talk to you about the third sector, the social sector. The social economy has a particularly relevant role, especially within the country where it is stronger, more evident and is present on a daily basis, making Portugal an extraordinary example of economic and social innovation. Social sector entities, as active partners in local development, form the driving force of territorial cohesion, combating desertification, promoting the sustainability of the territories where they are based and creating and ensuring the maintenance of numerous jobs. The entities of the social economy sector because they do not move, because they already exist and because they have presence with the populations, even in countercyclical and in front of all the adversitys, such as those caused by the COVID-19, can develop and maintain their activity, which has an incalculable value. All the work done by these, in social support, is seen in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr Minister, according to the latest social economy satellite account in Portugal, these entities represented 6, 1 % of paid employment and 3, 2 % of national gross value added. Imagine what would represent for the population, particularly within, the relocation or closure of these institutions. How much would this represent at the expense of the State, if these institutions were to end or if the State were to carry out its work? The social economy is indispensable to ensure the provision of intergenerational services and for the future of the country, where families have more foster care for their children, where every elderly person can choose to stay at home and be more and more accompanied and go to a home and find good conditions, a country with continuous care of quality, close and accessible, where people with disabilities do not have to leave their lands to find those who care for them. This is what the CDS always wanted and the CDS recognizes that a lot of what I just said is often assured by these entities. We therefore tabled a proposal for an amendment in the budget of the State to ensure by the Government an update of the Cooperation Commitment concluded with the Union of Portuguese Mercy, with the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions and with the Union of Portuguese Mutualities, for a minimum of 6 % in order to cover at least the increase in the minimum wage. Ms. Minister, these entities continue with difficulties which, however, were aggravated with the pandemic, many of them being financially strangled and at risk within the country. Indeed, in its contribution to the PRR, the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions stressed that the plan should provide at least twice the amount devoted to social responses or thus guarantee access to other Community funding funds. In fact, there are few references in the PRR on this subject, so we believe that our proposal remains even more relevant today. We believe in the third sector and its ability to often arrive before the state, closer than the state or where the state does not even arrive. It aims, yes, to create sustainable employment, much of it in the interior, to fight desertification and to improve the dignity of our elderly, children and people with disabilities. We therefore believe that these entities play a relevant and fundamental role in territorial cohesion. We have always abstained from the ideological prejudice that the left has of partnerships with the social sector and from the disappropriation that makes the availability of populations and their generosity, of which volunteering is the best expression. Mr Minister, do not forget this sector as a determining point for social and territorial cohesion and allow me to challenge it. If you can, I asked that the Cooperation Commitment, concluded with the Union of Portuguese Mercy, with the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions and with the Union of Portuguese Mutuality, be updated at a fair value covering at least the increase in the minimum wage in 2020 and 2021. Please don't let me do it! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u107	Mr José Maria Cardoso, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, government team: I would like to bring here some considerations on what is under discussion. The Lisbon Treaty and the new high-level strategy of the European Union have introduced a new political priority: territorial cohesion. The concept arises for the first time in the Treaty of Amsterdam in 1997 and has guided the European strategy for regional development. In the Green Paper on Territorial Cohesion, one can read: 'Territorial cohesion is intended to achieve the balanced and equitable socio-economic development of all territories', i.e. no European citizen should be harmed, in terms of access to public services, housing or employment opportunities, simply by living in a given region. It is the current government that recognizes the need and right of all territories to access and attract new opportunities, ensuring conditions of access to education, health, justice, sport, social and cultural services. I recall, in this regard, that only in the present century, in our country, were closed 6500 public services: health centers, hospitals, schools, TTC posts, agencies of the General Deposit Box, meetings of freguesia and others. And where did this happen? In low-density territories, with the argument of lack of population justifying the service. As a result, it has lost population because it does not have these services, which are the minimum guarantee of meeting basic needs, in a kind of « tailfish in the mouth ». The Left Block presented a draft resolution on a structured public service reopening programme, in collaboration with the municipalities and according to the assessment of its effect on the settlement of the territory — was rejected, in particular by the Socialist Party. in this sense, I ask the Minister when the implementation of a program of recovery of services removed to so many low-density populations have therefore contributed to their depopulation. This Ministry is a novelty, but the subject is not new. Our country has grown, for decades, inequalities and increased regional asymmetries to the point that this abnormality is considered normal, as a breeder of its own inequalities. We bipolarize the population concentration between the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon and the Metropolitan Area of Porto, while we passively witness the depopulation of the entire interior and the south of the country, in total abandonment, without even stopping to reflect on the consequences. It is not worth discarding responsibilities: they were governments of the PS, the PSD and the CDS that ruled the country during this period and therefore have that responsibility. The known data show us that as we walk in paternalist experiments with the interior and with good intentions programs, regional inequality has increased. In fact, this is also a regional problem of the European Union. This Ministry must have a strategy to reverse this trend and cannot say that certain intervention policies are not within its competence. This Ministry is a space for the confluence of sectoral policies of other ministries, it is true, but it has its own powers assigned. We cannot speak in territorial cohesion with mitigated and rough measures, as announced by the Government. The problem is structural and must be seen simultaneously in a local/regional perspective, but with an integrated/national vision and with defined goals and objectives. It is true that today we have a National Programme for Territorial Cohesion, a kind of plan more — more cohesive, more competitive, more sustainable, more connected, but collaborative — but it is not understandable to this integrated view of the country, nor the priorities for local intervention, from the concrete reality of each territory. We do not have one interior and it is not only inside that we debate ourselves with problems. See what happens in the metropolitan areas, saturated with population, where non-concentration management has made the advantages of scale become a deeconomy of agglomeration. We need to prioritize interventions and monitor implementations, measuring practical results of each action program. We must be able to take advantage of the strengths of each territory, establish close contact between the territories and develop cooperation in an integrated vision of relationships and space optimizations. in this sense, I insist on something that the Left Block has already presented as a proposal and that it has also been rejected, also by the PS. For when the digital platform in the geographic information system (GIS) as a way to determine the most appropriate spatial location for the creation/building of any infrastructure, in the perspective of territorial subsidiarity and effective cost-effectiveness of spaces, allowing political decisions to be enhanced by the production of appropriate and most advantageous information for populations? Knowing that this instrument is already applied by some municipalities, some of which have interesting sectoral experiences, urgent generalize it in the country, in a comprehensive perspective of the territory and inclusive of means of intervention. The concept of territorial cohesion has had evolutionary interpretations and today is increasingly seen as a promoter of social inclusion and equity, through a greater equality of territorial competences. It is a multidimensional concept based on quality, efficiency and territorial identity that can be measured by indicators that combine in a territorial cohesion index obtained, for example, from the synthetic regional development index. Returning to the concept of intersection of competences of this Ministry, as a broad spectrum glutinator of competences, admitting that this work has to be combined with other ministries and that it has to be defined as the objective of the Government, which is one, I believe, I ask other questions to the Minister. Question whether or not it is considered as a priority to address the following questions: to define the role of the cities in these and these urban spaces as a form of balance between the large agglomerates and the low-density territories, as polarizers of proximity dynamics, as intermediate and intermediate spaces, in the rural/urban territorial relationship; to quickly cover the whole of the broadband country to allow equal opportunities and enhance the intervention capacities of the least-required territories, so evident today, with telework and with digital school; to defend greater proportionality in the application of the PART or other supports that allow greater capacity to respond to accessibility to collective transport, particularly to rail; to regionalise the support of the CAP (common agricultural policy) including employment as a criterion for allocation of support, preventing more than half of the subsidies being allocated only to the surface area, with the injustices that this entails. For when is the status of the cross-border worker, whose obvious lack has been felt at this time? For when is the single document on the movement of minors? Access to cross-border common services? Do you think there is a cultural program on the network, how to do and execute the dynamization of cultural spaces and local associations? Mrs. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, being urgent the reversal of the asymmetric trend capable of fixing population, which is, it is also urgent to implement measures capable of attracting new populations. What is at stake is not region A, B or C, north, south, on the inside or on the coast; what is at stake is the balance of the country and, ultimately, democracy itself as the creation of equal rights and opportunities. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u109	It's Mr. André Ventura's turn from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u110	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members: The Minister for Territorial Cohesion should remember the promise that his Prime Minister made on tolls. Bringing, today, here, the Socialist Party to say that the tolls are not the central issue is to forget what António Costa himself promised on the tolls on the Via do Infante. It is also to remember what a prime minister did when this Parliament reduced the cost of tolls to 50 %—he referred to the courts to find out whether it was legal or not. More shame from the socialist government! As this one, we do not forget the shame of having brought to Portugal a plan of resistance and resilience, forgetting that a large part of the country is the private sector, which most suffered is the private sector. This plan seems to be made according to the central and regional public administrations, as if there were two countries: the beneficiaries and the payers. Some are here to receive, some are here to pay! This is what we have from the socialist government. We did not want to stop this intervention without talking about regionalization. My dear ones, there was something called a "referendum" in which the "no" won. Have courage! If you want to regionalize this country, have courage! If you want more stains to be distributed by the regional administration and local administration, you have the courage to call the Portuguese to the polls again! [[PS protests.]] It is not worth saying here that it is in the Constitution, because the Constitution is 1976 and the referendum was much later, in 1998. The referendum was Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u111	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u112	I will finish, Mr. President. Have courage and, if you want to regionalize this country, take it to the elections, take it to the referendum and we will see who wins that day in the ballot box.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u113	Fanfarão!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u114	Mr João Azevedo of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u115	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: It seems to me — or rather, I am sure — that there are two completely different narratives here. On the one hand, a PSD speech that is from the past, catastrophic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u116	Right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u117	... without goals of the future, in which everything is done wrong and in which nothing is happening, in which the fashion of the interior ends up being annulled because we are always saying evil of the inside and nothing is done; and, on the other hand, the discourse of the positivity of the future of the interior. Mrs. Minister, we just heard about the tolls. I have no doubt that the Government will comply with what has been decided in the Assembly of the Republic. I'd say more: we have to go further than that. This and the previous government have already taken clear steps to make those regions of the country more competitive, but we must go to the non-paying user principle, that is, we have to go to the end of the row so that we can circulate on those highways without paying tolls. And this is fundamental for the country and for the regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to say that the speech of the past and the sadness represents those governments that did not have the folder that the Minister has, that of territorial cohesion, and the proof is that she has just announced a few minutes ago that what was withdrawn from the PRR in relation to the roads will be consolidated in the State Budget, with the support of the infrastructures of Portugal. I congratulate you, Minister! These territories deserve such investment. However, I would also like to mention a large investment that is being prepared for the country: requalification and double-track placement between Viseu and Coimbra. Everyone talked about this work, but few did or did nothing. This government is preparing an investment so that the people of that territory finally have a dual link. It is an obligation that the government will certainly meet with the people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the issue of railway lines, in the past they said that nothing could be done, that there were no decisions to be made and that the country was still delaying in our railway corridor. Now, the Lower Beira Line between Guard and Covilhã is already running, the High Beira Line will begin to be executed and we will certainly have, in the next decade, in the PRR, or in the community paintings that come there, a new railway line linking the Atlantic Ocean to Spain. I have no doubt that this will happen! On another issue that has been raised here, I would like to say that the district capitals will have the necessary links for modernisation, for competitiveness and for the country to be stronger and more cohesive. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u118	As for the issue of health, Mrs. Minister, it is good to clarify people. It is not enough to take a napkin leaf and to present proposals in the State budget without funding and without projects. I have the secret hope that, in a few weeks' time, we can announce that the radiotherapy unit of the Tondela-Viseu Hospital and the Guard hospital will be a reality. I believe that this will be a reality for the people of that territory. Again, I recall the policy of the past, the policy of those who did nothing to make the interior more investment, in contrast to the policies of the present and of the future and of people who want to do more and better for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Finally, I am referring to the third sector, mentioned a few minutes ago by the honourable Member. It is good to say that the governments of the Socialist Party played a decisive role in the development, consolidation and infrastructure of the social network in the country. I believe that not only in PT2020, as in PT2030 and the PRR will we have the necessary conditions to continue to suit the country in order to have more and better care for the older. Mr Minister, this government is always preparing for the future, unlike other governments that have always said they did and failed to do so. In fact, what happens is that some people talk and others do. Some talk and others do! This is the big difference between one party and another party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u119	Even in the time of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u120	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The design of territorial cohesion is something ambitious, but absolutely necessary not only for the regions of the interior, which represent two thirds of our country, as for the use of endogenous resources and to have a more cohesion country, because only one country with more cohesion will be a more developed country. The PS is the party to territorial cohesion. It is the PS that has always done more for territorial cohesion and for the development of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] on the contrary, it was with the right-wing governments that we always had setbacks in territorial cohesion. The interior today is not that caretaker interior — an X-ray made by some Members; the interior today is a more developed territory, with infrastructures that can provide an improvement in quality of life and offer better conditions for the attraction of businesses and populations, as the Minister said here. However, we need to accelerate development and cohesion, we need to complement important ways, such as cross-border routes, we need to build the roads that are missing, such as IC31, IC6 and other roads that link our interior territories, and we need to promote more employment, with specific programmes and support. It is with this interior of hope that the country will be more developed. Mrs.Minister knows our territory well and certainly knows that there is a prize that has recently been received by a city of the interior: Castelo Branco. This is the European Entrepreneurship Region, which had only been awarded Lisbon in 2015, and this is none of the Members. Members mentioned, because it seems to be of no importance. But this means a vision of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is a strong commitment to change and a strong commitment to post-pandamy recovery through sustainable sectors—in the agri-food sector, in the centres of social opportunities, in the cultural area, with creative factories that promote young employment. Thus, there is a city in the interior and the incubation of startups in promoting activities that support this young entrepreneurship and also cross-border cooperation. So, Minister, what we want is more: we want more cohesion, but we also want a better country for our fellow citizens. And we want less tolls, because we have the right to have a more equal country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We want less tolls, because it's with more development that we have a better country for everyone. [[PSD protests.]] This is what we PS Members have always worked hard to achieve, and at every moment we have tried to fight for it. We want a country with more equal opportunities and a better country to live, work, study and do tourism. It is with the Minister, with the Prime Minister, with all the rulers and also with the Parliament that we count. The country can count on us, because we will never shut up or stop fighting for a more equal country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u121	There's nothing like the actual elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u122	Mrs Hortense Martins has benefited from an extra minute, which was offered to her by the NAP. Let us now move on to the closing stage of this debate. You have the floor for the PSD, Mr Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u123	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This debate—and everyone recognises, I presume, that it was constructive, positive and useful— revealed, of course, a first thing, that is, a Socialist Party with an archaeological discourse, turned to the past, that smells of mofo and raises questions that no one understands. Are you here to talk about the PSD and CDS governments when they've been in government for six years? Do you put the PSD and CDS next to the PS when, in a period of 26 years, they were government for 19 years? Do you want to balance one responsibility with the other? You now speak in a row... In fact, there was a Member who once said something that I am going to paraphrase: you made a trip to the past, moved on television and stopped on the Historical Channel, but did not stop on the Memory Canal, because you need to have memory to know how we arrived here and you need to have memory to realize why the troika came to Portugal, because we signed the Memorandum, because we were on an extended hand, because it is that you took the country to insolvency. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Dear colleagues, in addition to this speech that smells of mofo, have now come, at the end of this debate, with another logic, with the logic of the admirable new world that is all right. In the Guard, it's a wonder! In Castle White, it's a wonder! It's all starting! Now the country is working! But what a state of denial is this, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? But what kind of denial is this? The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is surprising that this government — someone has remembered, and well — is here to talk about tolls. Mr. João Azevedo, did you say that you are creating a row to travel on highways without paying? So, you less than a year ago voted against a proposal in this Parliament to reduce the price of tolls and now you want to circulate without paying? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Azevedo.]] No, no, sir! You, when you get there, you have to pay a toll, because you don't want to abolish the tolls! You don't want to abolish the tolls! The Socialist Party didn't want to! Mrs. Members, I just wanted to say to the Minister: no one doubts his good intentions, his good will, but, in this case, the impression that at the end of almost two years of government, is that the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion has ceased to be the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion to be more 'the ministry of territorial disillusion' or 'the ministry of territorial frustration'. There's a lot of frustration! [[PS protests.]] We thought it was from this thing that things started out, but no. If the Minister is willing to do things? Here! If you have the strength to do things? There's the busily of the matter, Mrs. Minister! That's the big problem! And the greatest confession of the fragility of this Ministry comes from the mouth of the Minister. [[PSD applause.]] It is because the Minister says that, when she has to decide, when she has to knock at the doors of all ministries, she says she does the pine, she begs her colleagues to adhere and to welcome her logic, which is the correct one, of deconcentration of services — when she does so, they close the door. But, Madam Minister, the next day everything is the same, as the Minister continues with her portfolio, the Prime Minister obliviously ignores her requests and the interior continues to sink. That is the sad two-thirds fairy of the national territory! More, Mrs Minister : on the residences of students for children of civil servants no one insurgents, nor the Members. Members of the Socialist Party. Student residences? Yes, for the children of civil servants in Lisbon. Not on the other side, from Lisbon! The children of those who work in private, those who love each other! The children of those who live outside Lisbon, those who love each other! The rest doesn't matter! And the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen don't say anything about this! [[PS protests.]] Ms. Minister, the PRR has less money for all the country's water resources than it has for a metro line from Porto or Lisbon. It's good that all of you. Ladies and gentlemen know of one thing, in fact, even recently, a Member of Parliament was saying it in deafness, but it is true. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know why you drink real water in Lisbon? Because the Castelo do Bode dam supplies Lisbon! We open the tap and the water goes out in Lisbon, because it comes from the dam of Castelo do Bode, which, in turn, is supplied by the river Zezere, which is born in the Serra da Estrela. Imagine: if they did not manage well water resources, what would happen to Lisbon and the people who live here? Strategy for the rural world, Minister, will excuse you, you don't see! And the tax benefits to the inside are little more than a joke, they don't even give to a dry chip per day who goes there. Look: say what they say, but the numbers in this are cruel. Do you know how many companies, Mrs. Minister, have taken advantage of the contractual benefits to be located inside? You know? Zero! Zero! Do you know how many companies have taken advantage of to benefit from forest units? One! Do you know how much you got? 1576 €! Do you know how many families have benefited from IRS deductions (tax on income of natural persons)? Very few! They cashed this fantastic amount of 13, 33 € per month. You can't buy a bottle a day. Then, the Minister spoke here of the IP3 : it is very sad to talk again about the IP3 — a work that cost EUR 10 million — where it continues to circulate at 30 km/h and 40 km/h on a road linking two of the main district capitals in the interior of the country only circulates at 30 km/h? Oh, my God! Is that still a great fact of your government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u124	I ask you to conclude at 120 km/h, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u125	See you later, Mr. President. I conclude by saying the following: the solutions to the interior are all in a book called « Final Report of the Movement for the Interior », which the Minister well knows, in fact, I have already referred to it once. That is why, and I am finished, the PSD Parliamentary Group means to tell the Government that either changes strategy or changes priorities, otherwise we will have to urge the Portuguese to change government. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u126	To conclude this debate, Mrs. Minister of Territorial Cohesion, Ana Abrunhosa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I do not intend to answer individually, but I would like to tell Mr Peixoto that I was a member of the group who wrote this report, which I think he should not have read. It is that part of the measures that the Ministry is taking are written in that document, and I can even indicate the pages on which they are listed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The notices contained in this document and which are devoted to the interior territories for investment, employment and mobility have been written by me. I therefore suggest that you read it more carefully. As far as the tolls are concerned — and, yes, they are referred to in this document — I would like to stress again what I have already said: the reduction in the price of the tolls has extremely high financial consequences, as we all know, for the IP budget. Therefore, the IP did not foresee these consequences. The measure also involves reviewing complex contractual issues. I leave here the guarantee that the Government and the main ministries—i.e. the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and the Ministry of Finance—are working on the process and on the different solutions to, of course, accommodate and implement this measure. I would like to make another correction: they have benefited from the tax benefits of a reduced rate of IRC (tax on the income of the public) for SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) inside...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u128	IRS!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u129	IRC! I'm talking about companies! As I was saying, it was more than 26 000 companies that benefited from the reduction of IRC to SMEs inside. Certainly, the entrepreneurs who have benefited from this reduction are grateful, although they have a difficult life and we must do everything to support them, to motivate them and, above all, to reduce context costs. We're not just going there with lowering the price of tolls or just with these tax benefits. We need to improve! If we want tax benefits to be an instrument of valuing activity and people, we cannot have two thirds of the country considered internal. That is to say, we must have several levels of interior, because it is not possible to have a tax benefit policy for all the interior territories. So we have to define what the most fragile interior is so that we can, in fact, accentuate the tax benefits. A short time ago, they said that « more is less». With regard to investment support measures — I am talking about the measures that have supported Community funds, because there are measures that have not been approved at this time more than 20 000 projects, with an investment of more than EUR 13 billion, with funds of more than EUR 6 billion, and 40 % is located in two thirds of the territory. If this is less, then I don't know what else is. As far as science support is concerned — see, we are talking about support for our policymakers and universities in the interior, we are talking about support for companies to carry out research projects with research institutions in the interior — we have approved nearly 5000 projects, which mean an investment of nearly EUR 1000 million and Community support of around EUR 600 million, and 60 % of these support, such as 60 % of enterprise support for the interior, was given in 2020. A short time ago, they said "it's more, but it's less." I recall that for the first time, this government has taken a measure to support contracting either by companies or by IPSS, which we called + CO3SO Employment. I would like to stress again: we had an appropriation of EUR 90 million and we were planning to create 1600 jobs. at present, we have approved EUR 250 million for about 5000 jobs. If this is less, then I don't know what else would be. As we all see, we have been totally dependent on the outside in full pandemic, so we must increase our national production base. The Ministry launched the National Production Support Programme, whose deadline for applications ended days ago, and for which we had an appropriation of EUR 100 million. The objective of this Programme was to support the purchase of small equipment, to support companies to enter the world of digitisation, to support companies in certification processes, which are essential to be competitive. Again, we had a budget of EUR 100 million. We launched this measure in January and we had to close it in April, because we had, in full pandemic, more than 4000 applications that requested a EUR 300 million support for an investment of EUR 600 million. I remember that the support we gave for the purchase of small equipment, digital systems, etc. , for the first time, it was completely lost and has, within the country, an increased rate of 60 %. This is just for micro and small businesses. So if this is less, I don't know what else is. With regard to the future, I would like to tell you that it is our objective to strengthen regional strategies, increase the weight of regions and municipalities and increase autonomy, even in the management of Community funds, as is our objective, in a framework for reducing cohesion policy funds, that our regions have more funds, have more autonomy and can work with inter-municipal communities in projects that are absolutely fundamental to territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u130	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u131	I am about to conclude, Mr President. I am therefore referring to several projects that we already have: flexible transport, which is absolutely essential for the mobility of people in interior territories; telehealth services; door-to-door services, where we have been betting through the Community funds of the region. Therefore, the aim is to increase decentralization and increase the power and autonomy of our regions, because that is the only way we will have greater cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u132	We have thus reached the end of this point and the end of our agenda, not without Mr Leon — and it is not just by name — to give some information to the House. [[Rice from the PCP and PS Members.]] Please, Mr. Secretary Diogo León.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 1262 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 13. the Commission, and 1263 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. a. I also report that you were present at today's plenary session, by video conference, Mrs Lara Martinho of the Socialist Party, elected by the electoral circle of the Azores. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary Diogo León. I will announce the agenda for the next plenary session, which will take place tomorrow, on 14th at 10 a.m. of the first point is the discussion of the Bills No. 691 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the protection of the insured person by prohibiting discriminatory practices, improving access to credit and insurance contracts by people who have surpassed aggravated health risks, conferring the right to forget and 826 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recognizes the right to forget about persons who have overcome aggravated health situations and guarantees them equal rights and non-discrimination under credit and insurance contracts by making the first amendment to Law No 46 / 2006 of 28 August. of the second point is the assessment of the Bill No. 718 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Alter the regime of horizontal property, making the eighth amendment to the Civil Code, and the amendment to Decree-Law No 268 / 94 of 25 October with subsequent amendments. of the third point is the discussion of the Bill No. 724 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extraordinary arrangements for supporting the maintenance of housing and commercial spaces during the mitigation and recovery period of SARS-CoV-2( 6 ). the amendment to Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April ). of the fourth point is the joint discussion of the draft resolution No 914 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Strengthening support measures for elderly people who live alone or alone, with Bill No 540 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Establishment of a reporting platform for irregular or illegal practices in residential structures for the elderly and with Resolution Projects Nos 117 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Ensure access to one geriatric residence for all elderly persons, 687 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — For the study and foundation of policies aimed at older people, promotion of active aging and protection of vulnerabilities, including violence against older people, and 1250 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Enlarge the scope and competence of the current National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth. Finally, there will be a regiment vote. I draw attention to the fact that a vote will be taken by means of an electronic vote, which will require everyone to be present at that time. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you all very much. I wish you a good afternoon.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u135	Sporting is alive!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-13.u136	Our session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 49 minutes.]]
