ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority, we will start our plenary meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will begin to account for the file. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. I begin by announcing the entry of the Bill No 75 / XIV / 2. a ( Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ). The Bills No. 702 / XIV / 2 were also entered. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 703 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 704 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 705 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 706 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), 707 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 708 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) and 709 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN). I also refer to Resolution Projects Nos 1012 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 1013 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 1014 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 1015 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 1016 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), 1017 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 1018 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 1019 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 1020 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), 1021 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 1022 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 1023 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 1024 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) and 1025 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ). I now announce the expiry of the procedure relating to the assessment of Decree-Law No 33 -A / 2020, which proceeds to public ownership through the nationalization of the social participation held by Winterfell 2 Limited in Efacec Power Solutions, SGPS, S.A. [ Parliamentary assessments Nos 24 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) and 25 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ). Finally, I announce the withdrawal by the proposer of Bill No. 390 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ). I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u3	We are thus in a position to begin the first point of our work today, which deals with the debate with the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs on sectoral policy under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. This is the only item on our agenda, in addition to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I must, in fact, have already informed the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we already have a quorum for these parliamentary votes at the end of the debate. I call on the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva, to initiate the debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are multiple responsibilities that they impose on Portugal in the European and international framework in the days ahead. It is up to the Government and, in particular, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but Parliament's election function is essential. I would like to include today's debate under this sign of the increased responsibilities that we have and choose, for my initial intervention, some special sensitivity. The first responsibility is the exercise of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The Commission approved this week the Action Plan for the Comprehensive Implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights, for which the informal Council of Ministers for Social Affairs, promoted by the Portuguese Presidency, had already had the opportunity to contribute. It is a very important step towards one of our main objectives: to have, in May, at the Social Summit held in Porto, an endo and an orientation, at the level of the Heads of State and Government, on the necessity of the European social model for the success of economic recovery and the green and digital transition. As I have said, the emphasis on the social dimension is even the added value of the Portuguese Presidency. Moving forward in the response to the pandemic and the construction of the European Health Union, agreeing a common roadmap for the European Pillar of Social Rights, investing in education, training, employment and protection policies, promoting equality, non-discrimination, inclusion and social integration, we will be more able to recover the economy and the social fabric, without allowing ourselves to crystallize new imbalances and exclusions. With the contribution of our Presidency, the instrument of recovery and resilience is approved and in force. National ratifications of the own resources decision continue, and the programmes of the new multiannual financial framework are beginning to reach the ground. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore time to remember that the social model is one of the main drivers of European growth and that is a major responsibility of our country, as the rotating presidency of the Council of the European Union. However, it is not only in Europe that the tasks ahead are demanding. Last week, the Prime Minister formalized the presentation by Portugal of the candidature of Antonio Guterres to a new mandate as Secretary-General of the United Nations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Last December, as a result of another national candidacy, Teresa Ribeiro was appointed Representative of the OSCE ( Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe ) for Freedom of the Media. Marta Santos Pais was now elected to the International Commission against the Death Penalty. We are with Sweden the two countries of the European Union which are part of the group of friends in the defence of democracy. With Canada, we are the two countries of the North champions in the implementation of the Global Pact on Migration, for the International Organization for Migration. We belong to the League for the Sahel and it was our proposal that there was a permanent European presence in the Gulf of Guinea, cooperating with the coastal countries in the preservation of maritime safety. It is Portuguese the new director-general of the department on Africa, of the European External Action Service, and I myself led the political mission to Maputo to find out about the forms of European support to Mozambique in the stabilization of the province of Cabo Delgado. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are just a few examples and an addition of international responsibility in our country. There is, however, a dimension and a theme in which this responsibility has a specific meaning: cooperation with the Portuguese-speaking African countries and Timor-Leste in combating the pandemic. Started in the second half of 2020, our support programme for these partners represents an investment now close to EUR 5 million in direct financing, individual protection equipment, testing and medical materials, training of professionals and community action projects by non-governmental development organisations. Let us now move on to a new phase of this programme, in which the fundamental support will be in vaccination. The Government has already decided to give to the Portuguese-speaking African countries and to Timor-Leste 5% of the vaccines on our European acquisition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is that the fight against COVID-19 is also done by solidarity with those closest to us. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put the initial words of this parliamentary debate under the sign of our responsibilities, and I am already referring to our European, multilateral and international cooperation. However, we must add other responsibilities crucial to our foreign policy, which is up to my ministry to carry out. First of all, I refer to the international promotion of Portuguese language and culture. Even under the difficult conditions of the pandemic, this is a charge we cannot vacillate. In 2021, the number of Portuguese professors in the various continents will rise to 53, while in 2016 there were 39. Thanks to the funding of the Camões Institute, through the International Institute of Portuguese Language, this year the project to prepare a dictionary in Mozambique, the first dictionary of the common language of Saramago, Drummond de Andrade and Mia Couto will be published outside Portugal and Brazil. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second responsibility is the contribution of investment and exports to the recovery of our economy. The Council of Ministers approved last Thursday the 2030 Internationalisation Programme, with precise and ambitious goals, of which I highlight the fact that exports reach 53% of GDP (gross domestic product) at the end of this decade. The economic effect of COVID-19 was brutal. GDP fell in 2020, 8 % and exports fell 19 %. But in several sectors our exports resisted and in others, such as agri-food, telecommunications, financial services or pharmaceutical products, even increased. The 35 investment projects then funded by AICEP ( Agency for Investment and Foreign Trade in Portugal ), as well as the dozens of investment intentions meanwhile signaled, show the resistance and attractiveness of the Portuguese economy. The third responsibility is to support Portuguese communities abroad. The New Consular Management Model is one of the flag projects of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Recovery and Resilience Plan. However, this model has already begun to be prepared and implemented, with results. The single act of consular registration is applied today in almost all positions. The Consular Care Centre already operates for five countries: Spain, the United Kingdom, Luxembourg, Ireland and Belgium. Since March last year, the e-Visa platform has received 8,000 applications for electronically processed visas. The new visa processing network is awarded. The objective is clear: it is that all consular acts that dispense the requirement of physical presence can be made electronically and that consular services are available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, digitally accessible from anywhere in the world. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal is the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In all major multilateral organisations we have important projections and missions. Our voice is heard. Our presence is not only welcome as required and coveted. This in no way decreases — on the contrary, it increases — our responsibilities in cooperation, in promoting language, in exports, in investment and in valuing diaspora. I therefore conclude by giving account in this Parliament of how much is required today to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the pursuit of the fundamental guidelines of Portuguese foreign policy: European construction, the transatlantic community, the CPLP, the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries, the linkage to communities, the internationalisation of our language, culture, science and economy and the linkage to multilateralism. This is the letter of mission of Portuguese diplomacy and Portuguese diplomacy works every day for its realization, with professionalism and at the service of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u5	We will enter the first round of questions from the debate. To that end, Mrs Isabel Meireles of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs: There are two speeches that dominate the relationship between the European Union and China. The first is the speech of the partnership, of strategic cooperation based on common commercial interests. We know that China has an extraordinarily significant presence in Europe and Portugal in vast sectors, many of them strategic. It has a strong economy based on exports from public companies which, as the European Court of Auditors well noted, can be set up as State aid, distorting competition and endangering the single European market. The States have so far had a disparate, uncoordinated response based on their national interests. However, on the penultimate day of last year, the European Union and China officially concluded negotiations of their comprehensive investment agreement which will, in principle, give European investors a penetration of the Chinese market as they have never had, committing themselves to fair treatment, without forcing the forced transfer of technology and with promises of no social dumping, and also with the subscription of the main treaties within the International Labour Organisation ( ILO ). But let us speak, Mr Minister, of the second speech on China, that of human rights, political rights and democracy. Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Europe cannot look heavily at what is happening in China. Europe is the continent of the French Revolution and the German Code (BGB). It was in Europe that the idea of tolerance and civilizational values emerged. Moreover, it is contradictory that the European Union, by criticizing some democratic turmoil in countries such as Hungary and Poland, does not have the same clear, firm and unequivocal discourse in the defence of freedoms in China. So, I leave a few questions. First, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as a privileged actor in the Portuguese Presidency, has addressed any of the issues that are more sensitive to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in these two months? Secondly, will the European Union contradict the myth that China is a kind of territory of exception in that it should not be disturbed by the issue of human rights? Will the European Union approach the vision of Biden, which has already guaranteed that it will recover the flag of democracy from China? It is true that we must respect China. But respect does not mean that the European Union and this Portuguese Presidency must be indifferent to such uncomfortable issues as Taiwan, the deterioration of political freedoms in Hong Kong, the condemnation of repression against Uighur minorities in Xinjiang, respect for Tibet and expansionism in the Pacific. For Portugal, these are very relevant issues, not only because of our link to Macao and history with China, but also because of the question of the oceans, whose conference was postponed to 2022. What is your position, Mr Minister, and the Portuguese Presidency in all these matters? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u7	To reply, Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Thank you for the questions put by Mrs Isabel Meireles, but let me make a correction. It is not true that China has an extremely significant presence in the Portuguese economy, and it is very important to keep this in mind. Those who have an extremely significant presence on the foreign side in the Portuguese economy are our partners: Germany, France, the USA, the United Kingdom, Spain, Belgium, Italy, and we are very proud that those foreign investors who have the most presence in our economy come from countries that are closer to us, both geographically and politically. It is true that Chinese companies have successfully participated in privatization processes conducted not by this government, not by the previous government or any government I have been part of. However, they fulfil the assumptions, the responsibilities they then assumed and have a contribution to the formation of Portuguese wealth and Portuguese employment that the Government respects, as I am sure, any other government would respect. It is very important to take this into account. There was still a two-week meeting, by video conference, the so-called group 16 + 1. The + 1 here is China, which has been represented at the highest level at the level of President Xi, and the 16 are all European countries, 12 of which are members of the European Union. But in vain will the honourable Member try to find in this group of countries the name of Portugal. Portugal does not belong to this group of countries. Portugal does not have a policy on China behind the policy of the European Union or different from the policy of the European Union to which we belong. She asked whether I had already put human rights questions in my contact with my Chinese counterpart within the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. My answer is this: I have not yet had any bilateral contact with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of China in this semester in which I hold the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. This is for two very important cumulative reasons: because it would be inconceivable for me to have a contact with the Chinese Foreign Minister before having contact with the US Secretary of State, or with the British Foreign Minister, with whom I have been in the morning, or, of course, with all my colleagues members of the European Union. The second reason is that the policy of the European Union is taken on a permanent basis by the High Representative for Foreign Policy, and I coordinate all his actions as the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Presidency with the agenda of the High Representative. Now, we're not going any further. Two years ago, I was in the People's Republic of China and I publicly spoke in the People's Republic of China, not just here about the human rights process in China. He said, in addition, recalling the universal periodic review of the Human Rights Council on China, which would positively record China's progress in economic and social rights, particularly in the fight against poverty, and regretted obvious setbacks in individual rights and civic freedoms. This is how we should have a mature and adult relationship with a country that is our partner in various multilateral organizations, which is our partner in specific agendas, which is our competitor in various areas of the world, but which, institutionally, is nothing less than our systemic rival. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u9	Even in the time allocated to the PSD in this first round, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, one question: how can we summarize this last year of pandemic? One answer: failure. If 2020 has shown that a pandemic can emerge on a global scale, it has shown that it is still not uncontrollable forces of nature and that science can control it. And the logical question to me is, then, why did it go so badly, with so much suffering, so many deaths? The response is essentially one: due to bad political decisions. Let us see: in the time of the black plague or, more recently, of the Spanish flu, the deadly virus could not be identified. But science has evolved. In December we learned about this pandemic; soon thereafter, scientists had isolated the virus and, in less than a year, we had the vaccine. The scientific part worked. It failed the political decision-maker, failed to find the balance between medical, economic and social considerations. On the other hand, we all know world leaders who preferred to go through conspiracy theories instead of listening to experts. In the United Kingdom, the government was initially much more busy with Brexit than with the virus. In Portugal, you have allowed entry into the territory without any type of quarantine and have facilitated confinement in crucial periods. Despite the fact that some countries have acted better than others, difficulties have occurred at the level of international cooperation. If it is true that there are numerous bodies of cooperation and generosity, I ask you, Minister : why has there not been any relevant initiative by the Portuguese Government to promote international cooperation in the field of medical resources and healthcare professionals in this fight? Finally, Mr Minister, there is one subject that we need to address and which is of greatest importance to the Portuguese: the vaccination passport. If, on the one hand, it can be an added value in the attraction of tourism, on the other hand, we cannot forget that we also have Portuguese who reside abroad and want to come to Portugal. What guarantees are being taken for Portuguese people in countries where the vaccine is scarce? Secondly, this passport is also called digital free-transit, i.e. it is likely to expose extremely sensitive data from all of us to new dangers, threats and dystopias. In fact, while the COVID took months to spread around the world, a computer virus is much faster. And, Minister, in the same way as a year ago, none of us knew that we would face an organic virus, nor do we know if, in the near future, we will not face a computer virus that attacks our digital infrastructure. But one thing we know: the government has an obligation to plan, the government has an obligation to safeguard and the government has an obligation to protect. in this sense, Minister, what concrete and specific protection measures are being required by the Portuguese State at European level to ensure that this digital free-transit properly protects our privacy? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u11	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u12	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put by Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira and start with the latter, which is the simplest. What measures are we taking? Measures that prevent the transmission of personal data associated with the digital pass. As simple as that. The honourable Member has expressed, I do not know whether on behalf of the PSD, two absolutely frightening theories. The first theory is the theory that the effects of the pandemic were exclusively due to wrong political decisions. I've never heard of this theory and this theory will be in the annals of the history of epidemics in the world. Secondly, she also explained to the honourable Member, I do not know whether on behalf of the PSD, the theory that Portugal should have imposed quarantine on all those who wanted to enter their territory from the beginning of the pandemic, including perhaps the Portuguese nationals, including perhaps our emigrants, even if we did not have any direct knowledge based on the dangers associated, for example, with new variants. I also record this theory. I also note that the honourable Member has raised the question probably before hearing my speech, because it is appropriate that I have devoted at least 2 or 3 minutes of my speech precisely to exemplifying situations of international cooperation in the fight against the pandemic. Portugal has been one of the countries that has mobilized the European Union's humanitarian action flights, in the project and approach called Team Europe ( Team Europe approach ). Of the first flights, five were carried out for two Portuguese-speaking countries, organized precisely by Portugal, as the first major response to support. Then, we made new responses to support these countries, in combating pandemics, in particular by providing masks, providing other personal protective equipment, training of intensivists, providing materials and machines for testing PCR ( Polymerase Chain Reaction ), among others. We didn't wake up for that now, Mrs. Deputies. at the level of cooperation, we have been involved with our partner countries since the first hour. Then, if I may say so, it is wrong that on one side scientific evolution and on the other side — the wrong side — would have been political decisions. If it were not the political decision of the European Union, taken by Heads of State or Government, to build a process of large-scale procurement and distribution of vaccines by Member States, the sole criterion of which is the respective population of each Member State, if it were not that political decision, research laboratories, universities and companies would not have the necessary financial conditions to ensure that it was the fastest-produced vaccine in human history and the most massive distribution vaccine in human history. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u13	Even in the time of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u14	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate you and Mr Minister. Secretary of State and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, when I hear you speak English, I hear you taking responsibility. Perhaps you should speak English here in Parliament, because you, very recently, have taken responsibility for political decisions that have been taken badly. So you should at least have a position here in Parliament just like you have out there. In fact, Mr Minister, use your old maximum if you allow me to say this: when you do foreign policy, keep in mind internal policy. Now, having internal policy in mind is, in fact, thinking about the Portuguese communities and answering the question that has been asked here: how are the Portuguese who are out there and are not covered by vaccination, and are not few countries in which this happens, may or may not be supported by the Portuguese State? Does the Minister have an answer to this question or not? This is to think about priority, that is to think about Portuguese communities. Mr Minister, it is not to be remembered that the Portuguese communities play a fundamental role in the whole structure of the diplomatic policy of Portugal and, more than that, they have, as you know, a fundamental weight in our economy: more than EUR 3 billion.... In addition, pardon, 3, 6 billion euros of remittances from the Portuguese communities arrive in Portugal. By entering the subject of economic diplomacy, I would like to ask you, recalling, as I said, that there is a breakdown of exports which must be recovered, in order not to lose these companies at once, whether or not there is a prospect of accompanying exporting companies to regain space in the markets they are defining. As you know, we have to look at our confinement, but in exports we have to follow the defination of other countries. Are you or are you not doing any work in this regard? Mr Minister, many policies have been implemented in this country — good or bad, but they have been with the money of the exporting companies. As you know, from 30 % to 44 % from 2009 to 2019. Mr. Minister has negotiated the State Budget with BE and with the CFP. He did not trade it by supporting these exporting companies, but used the support they gave to the country. At least, we should start returning. Mr Minister, you well know that these issues are fundamental to responding to what should be the role of economic diplomacy in Portugal. We must also have the economy in diplomacy and I must tell you that the State budget, approved last December, when it was already known that a third wave would appear, clearly makes it clear that no relief has been prepared for exporting companies. It was found that there were tax incentives that promoted companies' going to international fairs. But at the moment when we are, does the Minister think that we have, from a fiscal point of view, the conditions for obtaining support for the presence of international fairs? Do you not think we have to review support for exporting companies in view of what is approved in the State budget? Do you think we are in a position to support companies to go to the markets that are defining and recovering our exports? Mr Minister, I hope it will be clear in your answers, I hope you can give us here the focus of what should be your role, because Portugal needs much more from a Ministry of Foreign Affairs that can answer questions like these, for Portugal to realize, indeed, what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can do for the country and that is much more than it has done so far. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u15	In reply, Mr Foreign Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u16	Mr President, Mr President, very telegraphically, I would like to say to you, firstly, that you do not confuse, please, responsibility with guilt. I assume the responsibility of being here in this debate; I do not take the blame for the Macedonian intervention. Secondly, I would like to tell you that the State budget has very important instruments of support and encouragement for our companies, either in the logic of investment abroad or in the logic of the attraction of foreign investment to Portugal, which also benefits our companies, or above all in the logic of export support. That is why we have risen values for the internationalisation fund, so we have risen values for credit insurance and therefore we have launched new lines of guarantee, so important in countries where there is a certain political risk and where our companies have a very significant presence. Finally, on the question which you have raised about the Portuguese communities, that which Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira has already put, I would like to say to you that, of course, we closely monitor the development of our communities and, if necessary, intervene in the countries in which it is necessary, as we intervened when it was necessary to organize humanitarian flights, as we intervened when there was a need to create additional specific support for the associations, as we intervened when social support was needed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u17	We now turn to the Left Block Parliamentary Group, giving the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Sares.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Minister today announced something that resulted from a discussion we had in the Commission and that has to do with Portugal's availability to guarantee a portion of the vaccines it is entitled to its CPLP partners. With this in mind, we must not fail to note that Portugal at European level could and should do much more, because while we are discussing the vaccination passport, there is no doubt that this debate is set up to create a huge smoking curtain on the failure of the European Union to access vaccines, in particular the way in which, irresponsiblely, this whole process is being managed worldwide. WHO ( World Health Organization ) and UN ( United Nations) have already said that these vaccines should be a common good. Now, we already have vaccines, but lives are still suspended. WHO created a platform one year ago so that information could be shared about the scientific advances of vaccines; however, no pharmacist used this platform to share information. Much of the research that has been done to reach these vaccines has been paid with public money, with many hundreds of millions of euros, in some cases up to billions of euros; however, although they have been paid with public money, they are private property. So the question we should ask is whether we are condemned to continue private property or whether any greater good could be placed on the table. The World Trade Organisation (WTO) says that, in the event of a pandemic, intellectual property rights can be abolished or suspended. From that point of view, the question that I ask you very directly is this: does Portugal want to be a leader in Europe and the world in defending what is obvious, that is, that the vaccine is not suspended, that production is not delayed and that our lives have a light at the bottom of the tunnel on a global scale, quickly? Portugal wants to take forward the struggle that guarantees the end of the patents of vaccines and that they are ultimately what should be, that is, a common good of all humanity? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u19	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u20	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, thank you very much for the questions. To use its expression, which I am not ashamed of, Portugal is involved in three complementary struggles: firstly, it is involved in its own struggle to support our closest partner countries, in terms of international cooperation, in the response to the pandemic and now also in the acceleration of their vaccination plans. So we have already said it, I have already referred to it, and, I think, our action is clear. Secondly, it is involved in a global struggle, which has a specific expression in the so-called COVAX Mechanism, which is the struggle to make all vaccines that are being discovered and authorized, promoting universal vaccination. Portugal has been in line with the European Union initiative which resulted from the COVAX Mechanism, has already contributed in the order of several million euros for this mechanism and seeks to increase production capacity in Europe and outside Europe so that the money generated under this mechanism fulfils the role for which it was built, which is to buy vaccines and make them available to everyone. Today, it is not so much a problem of intellectual property that arises, it is a problem of production capacity that is up to the size of the demand and this is a second struggle in which we are involved and we will continue to be involved. Then there is a third fight within the framework of the European Union. I must also tell the honourable Member, because I do not commit any mistrust, which was under very strong pressure from Portugal, as a Member State of the European Union, that a first document for the creation of the European vaccine sharing mechanism, which defined as essential destinations of that sharing the southern and eastern neighbours of the European Union, was corrected in order to include all Africa and the low and medium-income countries in Latin America. Therefore, we are involved in the struggles and will continue to be involved until these struggles have the success that humanity needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u21	Mrs Fabíola Cardoso, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u22	Mr President, firstly, I welcome all those who, with their work, contribute to this debate with the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs and also the Minister and his team. What Mr Minister told us here was that there was no problem with vaccines, because it is simply a matter of production. Sharing knowledge and sharing technology increases production capacity, territorializes production capacity and increases vaccination capacity, particularly in the underdeveloped countries, but also in our own country, which would be essential to solve this very serious problem. Exactly one year after a global crisis there are much more doubts than assurances regarding the recovery and resilience mechanism. After so many promises, we know that the first instalment of these funds will only come next summer. There are other countries that have approved and implemented budget stimulus packages and are currently debating their strengthening in much greater amounts than the European Union itself. But it is not only the delay of the one that a few months ago was the so-called bazouca, which again denotes the insufficiency of the European response to the crisis; it is also the very nature of the funding we are talking about, as well as the Union's commitment to budgetary stimuli. In the last crisis he also defended them, but at hour H he retreated. Fortunately, today, Brussels has assumed, and well, that the budgetary rules will not be applied by 2020...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u23	2022!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u24	Yes, 2022, right, Minister, thank you very much. Only by abandoning this logic and these rules will we be able to see a decrease in differences between the countries of the North and the peripheral countries such as Portugal, otherwise they will always be the same as paying for the crisis, to the detriment of public services, wages and employment. The question I leave you with is this: will the Portuguese Government continue to pursue the budgetary goals, or will it take this opportunity to increase public investment, which is necessary and essential to strengthen the response to the pandemic crisis we are going through? Secondly, on 17 November the Minister said, in response to a question from the Left Block, and I quote: « A democracy, to be full, cannot admit discrimination and therefore we must actively combat discrimination wherever it exists. Do not keep on seeking. ” In particular, it referred to the implementation of the European strategy against discrimination against lesbians, gays, bisexuals, trans-sexuals and inter-sexuals. It reiterated that its implementation will be one of the tasks of the Portuguese Presidency. The statements follow, but the implementation of actions that strengthen the gender equality agenda and the anti-racist agenda seems to be lagging behind the practice of this Presidency, which is already getting closer to its environment. The question I leave to you, Minister, is about the setbacks as a direct consequence of the COVID pandemic, namely the worsening of wage inequalities, the imbalance between professional and family life and domestic violence. The question put by the Portuguese Presidency on the European pillar of social rights is that 10. the anniversary of the Istanbul Convention in April will be able to bring the theme of the fight against inequalities for the political action of the Portuguese Presidency? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u25	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u26	Mr President, Mrs Fabíola Cardoso, let me begin with the final part of your speech, just to challenge, friendlyly, if I may, your reference to Portugal as a peripheral country, because there are many areas in which Portugal is a leading country, a country of avant-garde. I do not know whether you can see this chart, which has been published by the World Bank today on women, law and economics, whose title is « Only 10 countries in the world have full equal rights for women ». The speaker posted a cell phone with the chart he mentioned. Is the honourable Member able to imagine what is one of the countries that is among the 10 countries of the world with this equality full of rights in the law for women? This country is Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And there are other areas in which Portugal is not a peripheral country, but these good performances that we have only mean greater responsibility for us and I wanted to put this debate under the sign of our responsibilities, and I will do it to the end. Therefore, within the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, we have the responsibility to support the European Commission in the full implementation of its anti-discrimination strategies. Even today, the European Commission has adopted a very important strategy, also against discrimination, for the full implementation of the rights of people with disabilities. The European Union has already adopted its strategy against inequalities on the basis of sexual orientation and the Portuguese Presidency has as one of its responsibilities the contribution to the implementation of this strategy. With regard to hate speech, racism, anti-Semitism, this is also another essential theme of the Portuguese Presidency. In fact, as I have already mentioned in the Commission in April, we will have, except in Coimbra, the international conference on the fight against racism and hate speech, which has been a recurring issue at the meetings of the formation of justice, internal affairs and internal administration of the Portuguese Presidency programme. I therefore reiterate that the honourable Member, as well as the whole Parliament, has the utmost commitment of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council, is not to add strategies to those that exist, it is to apply on the ground the strategies that exist, to make our actions coincide with our words. With regard to the first point, Madam Commissioner, I am sorry but you cannot say that my reference to the difficulties in producing vaccines means that there are difficulties in the process of applying vaccines. What it means, yes, is that we should intervene at the time of the value chain which allows us to respond more quickly to the shortage we have today. And the lack we have today is not that protected by intellectual property, because the vaccines exist, the research effort was made, the patenting indispensable was approved, but rather a lack in the mass production and distribution of vaccines. As for the instrument of recovery and resilience, it is approved and is, in all respects, one of the main successes of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council, so far. Madam Member, one of the essential conditions for not thinking of ourselves as a peripheral country is not to be ashamed of taking on the successes that we have and therefore the speed of the approval and entry into force of the instrument of recovery and resilience is a great success of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council, so far. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This enables States to present their national plans during this month and next month, and Portugal intends to present its national plan as soon as possible. We have now finished a public consultation, we have to look at the contributions, we are already working with the European Commission, and therefore we hope that the first pre-financing — which may amount to up to 13 % of the initial 60 % of the plan — may already be available in the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u27	Mr Peralta has spent the time available to answer but there is still a question to be asked, quite rightly, by Mr Nelson Peralta, to which Mr Peralta will do his best to try to answer on another occasion. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u28	Mr President, the Minister will, of course, respond when he can. It is the aim of this government that the European climate law will be finalised during the Portuguese Presidency, but there are very worrying signs that the government is moving forward in its ambition. Let us see: the European Parliament voted and adopted by a majority a greenhouse gas emission reduction target of 60% by 2030, but by one week of this vote Mr. Prime Minister, António Costa, signed a statement that the target should be only 55 %. The first question we ask is therefore the following: will the Government lead these negotiations with the European Parliament and defend the majority target of 60%, voted on by the Euro MPs of the Socialist Party, or will it, on the other hand, march back and defend the target of 55%, defended only by a minority and by the parties to the right in this House? That is obviously the first question, but we have more. We also want to know whether the targets will take into account the effective reduction or whether we will have a stamp on financial mechanisms and compensation mechanisms. We would also like to know whether or not the European climate law will have a carbon budget that will prevent the temperature from rising beyond 1, 5 °C. In conclusion, we must say that the government has the future of European climate law and therefore we hope that it will have the ambition to make a law that is not mere decoration. What we demand from the Government is, of course, not to move forward, to have all the climate ambition and to have a European climate law that responds to the planet and to society at the end of the process. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u29	You have the floor to ask questions by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u30	Mr President, I begin by congratulating the Minister and the other members of the Government. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about something that is, in fact, central to this debate and that has to do with vaccination. For some time now, this circumstance of the shortage of vaccines has been registered, as a result of the inability to produce and comply with the contracts by pharmacists and, at the same time, of their refusal to suspend patents in order to otherwise allow the extension of production. Mr Minister recently made a reference that I think it is very useful to recover for this debate and that it has to do with the circumstances in which we are currently producing vaccines that have been created and submitted to a relatively loaded business model. This is because the business model that allowed the creation of these vaccines is a public investment model, private profit and compromised vaccination capacity. However, Mr Minister, there are many measures to prevent infection and containment and combat measures to prevent the epidemic that must be taken, but I would say that vaccination is the essential aspect of the response to the epidemic, not only when we find ourselves but in time. The ability to vaccinate Portuguese, the ability to vaccinate citizens all over the world, with some uniformity, in order to create conditions to stop the epidemic globally, is the essential aspect of the response to the epidemic, in time. Therefore, Minister, we insist that the value of life must be placed above the value of the business and that vaccines must be recognised as a common good of public interest and should be placed as the priority aspect of the response that needs to be given to the epidemic. To that end, Mr Minister, we believe that there are two absolutely essential lines of intervention. On the one hand, the diversification of the acquisition of vaccines by our country, ensuring vaccination in conditions of safety and efficacy, considering the global availability in terms of vaccines. On the other hand, intervention to suspend or cancel patents to ensure the possibility of extension of the production of vaccines. The CFP today presented a concrete proposal in the Assembly of the Republic with a view to these objectives, including the need to mobilise the essential investment at the national level to ensure that conditions are created which enable us, from a national point of view, to have the capacity to produce vaccines. The simple question that I put to you is this, Minister : what measures does the Government allow to take in this regard? As for the problems still arising from the COVID, Minister, I wanted to tell you two aspects. A problem that continues to arise has to do with the situation of Portuguese prisoners abroad, which remains. This situation has been more visible in relation to Portuguese retained in Brazil, but there are other points in the world where it occurs. They are Portuguese without a solution to return, without means of subsistence and, in some cases, at risk of losing their jobs. They are not Portuguese who have left the country to go on vacation but, yes, to deal with problems related to relatives who are abroad, to deal with problems related to proof of life of Portuguese citizens who are married to foreign citizens, to deal with very different situations. These problems are reaching the lives of Portuguese citizens in a very dramatic way and the flights announced by TAP, under the conditions in which they are carried out, do not correspond to their solution. I would like to ask you this very specific question, Minister: what measures will the Government still take to overcome these difficulties that are identified? Another issue related to this problem, Minister, is the deadlines for cancellation of residence permits. There are foreign citizens with a residence permit in Portugal who are, of course, subject to deadlines laid down in the law, but being retained in their countries of origin, without being able to return to Portugal, are at risk that in some cases the deadlines for the residence permit may be exceeded. It is also necessary to find a solution to this problem and the question I put to you is this: what measures is the Government considering taking to overcome this problem? I will try to conclude the questions, so that we do not run the risk of what has happened before, and Mr Minister has no time to answer. As regards the investment agreement between the European Union and China, this question has already been addressed and the question I would like to ask you, Minister, is simply the following: what is the real point of view of this agreement? Is it under assessment or is it already at a more advanced point in terms of its implementation and consideration of the global aspects that have been identified in relation to this agreement? Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you a question from the point of view of foreign policy. I could have other developments, but, in matters of time, I will limit myself to asking questions in a very simple way. This is the following: the Trump Administration recently ended in the United States, and hopes for change in foreign policy by the new U.S. administration, headed by President Biden. We would like to know what the Portuguese Government's position is with regard to these warmed hopes regarding the measures taken by the previous Trump Administration, whose impacts have been deeply negative throughout the globe. It gives only the following three examples of this, which seem to us to be very obvious: decisions concerning the economic and financial embargo on Venezuela, with all the negative impacts it has had on the Venezuelan people, including on the Portuguese community living there; the same thing about Cuba, with all the impacts of the decisions of the embargo, after decisions in the opposite direction that had been made previously by other United States administrations, which had allowed some approximation between the two States but which had finally reversed this course, with negative consequences, as it is not difficult to recognize ; and also the position taken contrary to the UN resolutions, for example with regard to the Western Sahara. I would like to know, Mr Minister, what the position of the Portuguese Government is with regard to these hopes that have been heated around the new administration of the United States and also what measures is the Portuguese Government to take so that many of these decisions of the Trump Administration can be reversed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u31	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u32	Mr President, I am very grateful for the four questions put by Mr João Oliveira. First of all, I will say that we do not agree with several decisions taken by the United States in its foreign policy. We did not agree with decisions made by the Clinton Administration, we did not agree with decisions made by the Bush Administration, we did not agree with decisions made by the Obama Administration and we did not agree with numerous — I would say thousands! — decisions taken by the Trump Administration. We do not agree with the economic blockade of Cuba. Furthermore, the European Union does not have a regime of sanctions aimed at the economy or population groups. The sanctions regimes we have are directed only to individuals, natural or collective. Therefore, we do not agree with the United States sanctions regimes for Venezuela or Cuba and much less agree with the so-called "extraterritoriality of sanctions" that the Americans claim for you. The Americans know this and we'll see if the Biden Administration has any background changes there. What I know is that already the previous Administration, the Trump Administration had internationally proposed a process of selective lifting of sanctions to Venezuela conditioned at steps in the process leading to free and fair elections, and the Venezuelan Government rejected that proposal. As for the measures taken by the Portuguese Government, in addition to the generic position I expressed here, I can say that at the first telephone meeting I had with the new US Secretary of State, one of the decisions we jointly made was to maintain a specific channel of contact between the two countries about the situation in Venezuela. He knows that I am interested in Venezuela for all the reasons that have to do with humanitarian and regional stability issues, because there are hundreds of thousands of Portuguese citizens or with Venezuelan and Portuguese nationality living in Venezuela, and therefore that is a direct concern of myself. With regard to the EU-China investment agreement and to what extent the German Presidency and the Commission have reached an agreement in principle at the end of last year. However, the texts have been completed and, as well as their annexes, have been made available in the last few days. A technical and legal translation work is now needed, taking into account the different official languages of the EU, which are 24. However, the political process must move forward, in order to understand what reaction the Member States and the European Parliament have in relation to this agreement in principle and what it is necessary to clarify in that agreement. What I have said is that the responsibility of the Portuguese Presidency of the European Council — I myself chair the Council for Foreign Trade Training — is to do this work with the European Commission, with the Member States, with the European Parliament, so that it makes clear what is in the investment agreement with China and to what extent that agreement is in line with the European Union's own requirements when making bilateral agreements. On the issue of vaccination, he asked whether the Government would buy vaccines outside European procurement, from the process of acquiring European vaccines. The answer is: no. We are involved and committed to the process of European acquisition, which we have been defending since the first hour, because it is a process of acquisition which is more favourable to the interests of a State such as Portugal, in addition to being the fairer, more equitable and also more powerful process from the point of view of the incentive it has represented for the discovery and production of vaccines. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The European Medicines Agency, without any other condition than technical criteria, will approve the vaccines — it has already approved three and we hope it will approve the fourth during this month — in a process that does not have to do with the nationality of the companies producing the vaccines, but with its quality and technical efficiency, and that we will accompany. I insist that our main problem is not up to production capacity, but on production capacity itself, even on a scale that has never been reached. We will receive 100 million doses in the first quarter, we will receive 600 million doses in the second quarter, and we will receive 1100 million doses in the third quarter. Finally, on questions concerning Portuguese held abroad, I understand your concerns, as you know me. What I have to say is that we will arrange the flights that are necessary to return the Portuguese who have to be repatriated for humanitarian reasons. That's what we did last winter, that's what we did last spring, that's what we did last summer and that's what we do this year whenever necessary. Having said that, I must say again publicly that by decision of the President of the Republic, adopted by this Parliament and then regulated by the Government in Portugal, a ban on travel abroad does not take place for essential reasons.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u33	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u34	I conclude, Mr. President. For our ability to respond to the critical situation that is everywhere because of the pandemic it is very important that we know that no Portuguese will be without support, but all Portuguese must be exemplary in fulfilling the confinement, which is absolutely essential for us to be able to get out of the situation in which we find ourselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u35	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to make your requests for clarification, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister, has brought us a vision which I would say is relatively optimistic for Portuguese companies in relation to internationalization and export. My question, of course, is the following: on which is Mr Minister based this optimistic view? It is because Mr Minister two years ago said that there was a problem in Portugal that there was a low-skilled industrial fabric, very little capitalised and, even with poor management quality. I ask you if you are not going to be right enough for businessmen, especially industrialists, when you say that the problem is that you have a capitalisation that can only now depend on the support of the government, in our circumstances, that these support does not reach the companies and that we have a Recovery and Resilience Plan that is "public, more public" and very little for exporting companies. Mr Minister, with regard to exports, we must have a medium- and long-term vision. But the news that we had yesterday is that, at the end of this whole time, the airport went back to zero stake, that the government admits to nationalising Groundforce, which was a company with 150 million liabilities while it was public and which recovered after the privatisation process, and that the Recovery and Resilience Plan is strictly public. So he asked him: on what basis is his optimism in relation to exporting companies? What is the basis of this growth for 53%? I would also like to leave you two questions with regard to another subject, which is acquisitions abroad. What balance do you have, Mr Minister, of the acquisitions we have made — we know that there have been many difficulties there too — be it the fans who have not arrived, whether the fans who have arrived do not work completely? I assume that the Minister will give us a positive sign of enlargement of the purchase of vaccines, of the resolution of the matter with AstraZeneca, and I therefore hope that I will comply with the plan that was established, and that, of course, in the matter of vaccines, a little contrary to what was said by the Minister, is a success of the private initiative and not the opposite, especially with regard to the speed with which we had several vaccines on the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u37	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Telmo Correia, thank you very much for your questions. I love how you finished your intervention with this transformation of Oxford University into a private entity and I also loved your idea that when there is a public procurement with the financial dimension of the process of acquiring vaccines, on our behalf by the European Commission, it is only the private economy that is working. We're always learning! Let me ask you, Mr President, what are the reasons for my optimism? First of all, I must say that I am neither optimistic nor pessimistic. With all honesty, this is a complaint that doesn't help me in these circumstances. I am simply aware of the difficulties we are experiencing, of our responsibilities and of the ways in which we can overcome the difficulties we live, taking on our responsibilities. I should therefore take into account that Portuguese exports have fallen 19 % and that, at the same time, Portuguese exports to the agri-food sector, pharmaceutical products, certain textile products, financial services and telecommunications have increased. I must bear in mind that, contrary to what had happened in 2018 and 2019, in which EAICEP added in each year more than EUR 1000 million of foreign investment, last year it stayed far away from this foreign investment leverage target, but it remained far away because it only reached EUR 560 million. But these 'only' EUR 560 million prove that, even in a pandemic context, as we live last year, foreign investment believes in Portugal and that our ability to attract and encourage foreign investment is inconceivable. And a party like the CDS must of course value this point. INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) said a few days ago that the foreign investment stock in Portugal in 2020 increased by 1, 6 %. This should be taken into account, not to be offended by it, not to sit in the shadow of the banana, but, yes, because it means an additional responsibility for us to do what we can do, what we have to do, because we have conditions to do so. And if, as Torga said, «if I do what I can, I do what I have to do», this expression must also be seen on the other side: if I can do more, I must do more, and that is the duty I want to talk here, in this debate with the Portuguese Parliament. So we value our effort. The honourable Member spoke about the fans, and well, yes, sir. Here is one of the main ones responsible for one of the most important operations that the country has done and has allowed to acquire hundreds of fans, which, in turn, have allowed our capacity in intensive care to multiply by four or five, at the peak of the pandemic in January — without this acquisition process we would not have had that capacity — with the effort of all of us, of course. Is there a problem with the supply of vaccines? There! But these problems need to be clearly defined. Do we have any problems with Pfizer? No, we already had and they could have been corrected. Like Moderna? No, we don't. We have a company with which we work so that they can be overcome. That is why our national goal remains the same: by the end of this summer, we hope to have 70% of the Portuguese adult population vaccinated and hope to achieve this goal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u39	Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group continued to use the floor to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u40	Mr President, Minister, as far as I know, Astra was a Swedish company and Zenega was a British company. So we're talking about private economy. [[Protests by the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.]] Moreover, Pfizer and Moderna were also... and Portugal didn't acquire any wonderful product from any country of real socialism, as much as I know, not even the Chinese vaccine... so this question is clear. Mr Minister, changing a bit of a matter, I would like to say the following: concerning Mozambique and Cape Delgado, the CDS presented a draft resolution, which Parliament has adopted. And you were involved in this process. I ask you what is the situation that makes, what is the current situation, what is the European Union's intervention and what the outlook on this matter, especially from the humanitarian point of view, we realize that the issue of defence also depends, of course, on the Mozambican State. Another issue, Minister, concerns Venezuela. The Minister has spoken here — it is relevant that he has done so, and we know that this is an important issue — in the existence of several Portuguese ambassadors with important functions at the international level which are a cause of pride for all, as is evident. Precisely in Venezuela, the European Union ambassador, by portuguese sign, Ambassador Isabel Brilhante Pedrosa, has just been expelled in a sanction of the Venezuelan regime. Venezuela's problem is not, contrary to what has been said, the US Administration, whatever it is. Venezuela's problem is the Venezuelan regime and what this regime is imposing on its own people and, as a result, Portuguese people in Venezuela. Mr President, what is the situation in terms of supporting these Portuguese people? What is the situation in terms of consular support, the ability to reach the ground in this pandemic? With Portugal in the Presidency of the European Union, what is the framework of the European Union-Venezuela relations after the expulsion of the ambassador by means of a Portuguese? On the other hand, I would like to ask you another question that has occurred to me and which I think is interesting, which has to do with the following: the Minister said - and the Portuguese Government has, in this regard - that, within the framework of cooperation, we will dispense vaccines, in particular for the Portuguese-speaking African countries (PALOP ). Nothing to oppose, Minister, I agree with that principle. But that raises this question: and as for Portuguese residents in countries such as Venezuela? Is there any way we can get the vaccines to them, too? If it is important to help our brothers and sisters, I also think it is most important that we help the Portuguese who are, to the hundreds of thousands, as the Minister said, in countries where vaccines will be very difficult to reach.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u41	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u42	One last issue — telegraphy, Mr President — concerns the Portuguese police officers of our former colonies. We have asked the Government several times whether there is any novelty, if there is any point in the situation, if there is anything you can tell us about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u43	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u44	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, with regard to Mozambique, the European External Action Service is working with the Commission to make the so-called 'crisis policy document', which is essential for the training mission to be carried out. However, we increased humanitarian action and development support, especially with the Employment + project, which is managed by Portuguese cooperation itself. With regard to Venezuela, the questions are clear. There is a basic rule in international relations, which is the rule of reciprocity, and therefore, if the European ambassador in Venezuela was declared non-grate, the Venezuelan ambassador to the European Union was also declared non-grate. Support for Portuguese people living in Venezuela has existed since the first day of my mandate and, before, my predecessors had the same concern. And this also explains the delicacy and complexity of Portuguese positioning in relation to this situation. I have always said, because it is the purest truth, that the fundamental criterion for any decision to make concerning Venezuela lies in this first question, which I always ask: does this decision help or harm the situation of Portuguese people living in Venezuela? And all my colleagues understand that this is the first question I ask. Finally, with regard to the vaccination programme, I must say that vaccination programmes work by the criteria of residence, i.e. residents in Portugal are entitled to the vaccine, whether they are Portuguese or foreign. In the European countries, in the countries of the northern hemisphere, that is the criterion that prevails and, in many countries of the southern hemisphere, that is also the criterion that prevails. When this criterion does not prevail, the suppletive function of the State — and even a conservative accepts it as essential — will be activated. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u45	Mr André Silva, from the PAN, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u46	Mr President, Minister Augusto Santos Silva, on the vaccination certificate, which is being discussed in the European Union, there is no doubt that there must be a European effort to ensure the existence of a movement mechanism that ensures safe entry and exit. But no one also doubts that the vaccination certificate is not the magic solution that guarantees it, until there is still sufficient objective scientific data to define the safety criteria, especially in a scenario of great volatility of curves and new strains with higher rates of transmissibility. Furthermore, in the context of a shortage of vaccines, the imposition of this certificate would bring marginalization of groups of persons not yet vaccinated, not yet immunized. Therefore, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you whether this vaccination certificate will be the only mechanism which Portugal will use for the control of safe entry, or whether it will coexist with others, including the testing of those who enter and leave the country, accompanied by quarantine rules, where justified as necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u47	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u48	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I am grateful for your question because it allows me to give some clarifications that are very important. We are not discussing the European Union's vaccination certificate. What the European Commission has prepared to present as a legislative proposal on 17 March is what we call a "digital immunity pass". What does that mean? It means a certification, recognized among us, that the person x has been vaccinated, or did a negative test to COVID-19, or is immune because he has developed the antibodies, because, for example, he has already had the disease. Therefore, this digital immunity pass is not a vaccination certificate in its own sense. Another very important point of your question is this: it is crucial not to ask the digital pass for immunity what he will not be able to give. When we have a negative test, or immunity, or have been vaccinated, we are not exempt from any—but even none! — health protection measures which are essential to avoid contamination. I, who have already been vaccinated, can be a transmitter and, therefore, I have to wear the mask, I have to respect the physical distance, I have to comply with all the health rules. Therefore, the digital pass of immunity will enable us to know and define better what our situation is and, above all, see this recognition certified by others. But health control measures will continue to be essential, until new variants are developing, we still know them badly and we need to use all the caution. The principle of caution, which you think at least as much as I do, or more than I do, is absolutely essential here. I am therefore grateful for the opportunity you have given me to make these public clarifications which I consider absolutely essential. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u49	Mr André Silva continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u50	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, this government's policy on China expresses Realpolitik at its worst. It is simple: arms open for the blood dictator Xi Jinping and for his yuan, backs aimed at violations of the human rights of the Tibetan people and uigur, i.e. what Mr. Minister calls 'a mature and constructive relationship'. There are concentration camps in Xinjiang with 2 million Uighurs and Muslims to be re-educated and forced to assimilate the culture of the Chinese Communist Party, and under its baton we have the silence of Portugal ; with uighurs to be subject to slave work that, according to international reports, serves to provide cheap slave labor for brands such as Adidas, Nike or Coca-Cola. And, under his batata, we have the silence of Portugal ; with women uighur forced to use contraceptives, to be subjected to sterilization and forced to abort. And, under his baton, we have the silence of Portugal. The Uighur people are being the target of a genocide — ge-no-dio! — which, as such, must be stopped as soon as possible. And that is not done with titubious positions that fluctuate between silence and whisper, as you have done. There are firm positions that require these practices to be classified as genocide. The United States, in the Biden administration, has already demanded it as well as Canada and the Netherlands. The European Parliament has already condemned this genocide and, in France, Sweden, the United Kingdom and Australia, the discussion on the qualification of what is happening in Xinjiang as genocide will take place in the coming days. In Portugal, this discussion will also be held here, in Parliament, on the initiative of the NAP. Let's wait to see if PS and PSD will continue to hand over the PCP in the fight for the bleaching of atrocities committed by the assassin Chinese regime. Xi Jinping, to whom you hold your hand, has your hands dirty with blood. Mr Minister, I wanted to ask you two questions. First: will Portugal join the countries that defend what is happening in China, which is a genocide of the Uighur people? Secondly: will Portugal stand by countries such as the United Kingdom and defend an independent investigation to what is going on in Xinjiang? [[Congrats by Mr. IL João Cotrim de Figueiredo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u51	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u52	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I would like to thank you for the questions you have raised, although I should like to say to you frankly, that I consider the expressions you have used offensively to me. The honourable Member may consult public documentation on the interventions I make in the People's Republic of China itself on the human rights situation in China. It is not a question of Realpolitik, it is a question of making a realistic foreign policy, also in defense of the national interest. Do you know why I use so much care, so much caution, so much caution? Because it is very easy to make here a rhetorical proclamation, when, after that, you do not have to respond to the fate of the 300 000 Portuguese living in Venezuela. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u53	What about China? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u54	It is very easy to make here a rhetorical proclamation, when it is not to us that they ask—but to me they ask, and they do well to ask—what we do for the fate of the 130 000 Portuguese living in China. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, it is not only with regard to Hong Kong that the principle 'one country, two systems' has to be applied, the basic law must be complied with and the transition process must be balanced. These three things also happen in relation to Macau. The same basic law must be fulfilled, the interests of the people living there must be respected and the principle 'one country, two systems' must be validated, implemented, respected. And you know why there was no problem in Macau yet? It is also because, on the other hand, there is a power, like Portugal, which has known the world for many centuries—for many centuries Portugal has known the world! — which respects everyone, who knows how to defend their interests and who knows how to use the most intelligent ways of defending them. So, Mr. Member, the Portuguese Government...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u55	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u56	Mr President, I will conclude, and I apologize, but, as my grandmother already said, "who does not feel...". With your permission, Mr President, just to conclude, I will say that the honourable Member cannot say that the Portuguese Government does not condemn human rights violations wherever they exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u57	Are there genocides in China or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u58	You cannot say that foreign policy can only be done on the basis of rhetorical proclamations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u59	You don't want to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u60	You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u61	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union's strategy for the vaccination process is based, as you know, on options that were based on public-private partnerships with half a dozen multinational pharmaceuticals, where states took the risk, taxpayers paid for the research and companies stayed with the patents. Still, these pharmaceuticals are failing, both in the production and delivery of vaccines, in the face of what was agreed. And we still do not understand the reasons why the Portuguese Government does not consider the diversification of purchasing options outside the framework of the European Union in order to ensure a faster vaccination process in our country. And I insist on the question, because the reasons which Mr Minister recently invoked here seem very fragile to us in the face of what is at stake, because what is at stake is the life of the Portuguese people. Turning to the subject, Mr Minister, I believe that I do not need to be long enough to mention the threat that nuclear weapons pose to humanity and much less the consequences of their possible use, because surely the Minister is also aware of both one thing and the other. I will therefore limit myself to saying that the danger of using this weapon, associated with the tension and serious threats to peace and security that have marked the international situation, makes it even more urgent to demand the end of nuclear weapons, because it will only be possible to guarantee peace and security among peoples. It was precisely for that purpose that the United Nations General Assembly approved the Nuclear Weapons Prohibition Treaty, seeking to establish a legally binding instrument prohibiting nuclear weapons, leading to its total elimination. This Treaty has been open for signature and ratification by the United Nations Member States since September 2017. The Portuguese State has not yet ratified this Treaty, although, as a member of the United Nations and in respect of our Constitution, it must stand in defence of peace and fight for the elimination of nuclear weapons. The Greens therefore believe that the Government should participate in a joint effort and a permanent and determined commitment, because the risks of nuclear weapons are very high and the danger is real. What I would like to know, Minister, is whether the Government is considering signing this important Treaty, adopted by the UN, and, in this case, when it considers the Government to refer it to this House to proceed with its ratification process.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u62	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u63	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I am grateful for the questions put. On the possible purchase of vaccines outside the European buying process, the Government does not intend to do so for two reasons. Firstly, because this would betray a decision that we, as Europeans, have made, and which has allowed, I insist, that the process of discovery and production of the vaccine should be the fastest in the history of humanity and, above all, that the distribution of vaccines by the European population by the different Member States should be the sole criterion of the pro rata distribution according to their population. But there is also another reason: there would be no vaccines authorised by the European Medicines Agency that were available. If the first reason, which is sufficient in itself, was not enough, the second reason should be considered. Mr President, exactly because of people's lives—and people's lives are the most important—we have only used vaccines duly authorized by the European Medicines Agency in Portugal, which is, so far, the University of Oxford vaccine, the Pfizer vaccine and the Modern Vaccine. Probably, from this month on, we can take advantage of and use another vaccine. Therefore, it is in terms of the lives of the Portuguese, and it is because we are a Member State of the European Union, believing in the process of acquiring the European Union, which we are not available to do as those who are in the European Union for one thing and forget that they are in the European Union for another. As you know, Portugal is one of the countries most committed to the implementation of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. But Portugal cannot sign or subscribe to the Treaty on the Elimination of Nuclear Weapons for an elementary reason: Portugal is part of a nuclear alliance, which is NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ). Therefore, Portugal is involved in the arms control process—it is very important that the agreement reached by Biden and Putin a few weeks ago to prolong the duration of the START Treaty (Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty)—is involved and committed to the logic of non-proliferation of arms, of progressive disarmament, with a view to, if everything goes well, the eventual elimination of all nuclear weapons in the face of the Earth. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u64	Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the Greens, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u65	Mr President, Minister, there is honesty with NATO, and there should also be honesty with the United Nations, because we are also part of the United Nations, which I know. And it was also necessary to have some honesty with our Constitution, because its article 7. it states that « Portugal advocates general disarmament(...) and the dissolution of political-military blocs(...) ». Therefore, to be honest, it should also be honest with the United Nations and our Constitution. To conclude, I ask a question about EFACEC. EFACEC is a market-leading company and is a company of enormous strategic relevance to the economy. It follows that EFACEC saw a EUR 21 million tender cancelled, which it had won in Norway, for the construction of a biogas centre. And this happens despite the fact that EFACEC has met all the requirements required for the competition. However, regardless of the difficulties that EFACEC itself is having to make in order to make use of this decision, it was also important, Mr Minister, to know how much the Portuguese Government has done with the Norwegian Government, in principle knowing the point of the situation, whether the Norwegian Government has already given some clarifications on this process. [[Congrats from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u66	You have the floor to answer, Minister Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in fulfilling a responsibility which falls within the task of foreign affairs, which is to support Portuguese companies abroad, whatever they are and whatever they are the sectors or countries in which they are, when we have become aware of this, instructions have been given to our ambassador to seek out, with the Norwegian authorities, the reasons they have brought to this decision. Then Mr. Secretary of State for Internationalization sent a letter to his Norwegian counterpart seeking clarification. We're waiting for the answer. But Norway is a rule of law and, therefore, we know that the company is studying the appeal to the courts, and I am sure that the courts will be right to those who have it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u68	You have the floor to ask questions, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u69	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, if Portugal, one day, had to defend itself, do not think that the United Nations had come to defend us, certainly. It would be NATO, which you would criticize so much, that you would defend the Portuguese territory!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u70	It was André Ventura! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u71	They wouldn't even be friends of Venezuela, nor would the United Nations that would defend Portugal, it would be NATO that would. A short time ago, Mr Minister, he showed a chart on his cell phone to the Left Block to place Portugal in the world in the field of equality. I have another issue here to show you, which says: « Portugal is the third country in the euro area that has spent less on combating the crisis ». It was this number that Mr. Minister should show and explain how it is possible for a Minister to say that he wants to be a leader in the European Union in combating pandemics and in the government that he spends less in combating pandemics. It is, at least, curious and ironic that it is. But I would also like to ask you, Minister, whether you have on your mobile the report Portugal, Social Balance 2020, which says that poverty and extreme poverty have increased with your government, before starting the leadership of the European Union. What a beautiful Portugal leader we have to kick out! But I couldn't finish this round without asking you something. We know that there was a kind of trick in government appointments, which was reported by the press: in 165 appointments, including in their Ministry, 129 were formerly appointed leaders. This is the transparency we give to the European Union! The example we give is less combatting the pandemic, less transparency and less commitment to countering the causes of this pandemic. But, Minister, I was curious about one thing that said: that we only have problems with a pharmacist, with the others it is all solved. It is interesting because, on 12 February, Mr Minister said: "The supply of vaccines is very much below what has been contracted and it is a problem that we have to solve." It's good to clarify.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u72	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u73	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying only this: it is not just about human rights and the defense of Portuguese in Russia, or China, or Venezuela, Mr Minister. It is that these countries also have a lot of people in the European Union. And if we were firm in defending what we believe in, you can be sure that retaliation would not be as feared, nor how can you expect, because if we have many Portuguese living in China, there are thousands of Chinese living in the territory of the European Union. And for half the threat, and half the threat, because we are not here to play, we are here to defend the interests of Europeans.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u74	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u75	Mr President, Mr. André Ventura, I confess that it is very difficult to answer, because I do not understand what the questions are...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u76	The phone!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u77	... and also because the language and the implied language that it uses, such as this idea that expelling foreigners can be a retaliation weapon, are so far from my thinking, my values and my political conceptions that I confess I cannot reason on those terms. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, I turn to the only concrete question that Mr Deputies, apparently in my poor intelligence, will have mentioned, which is that of nominations, under replacement arrangements, in my Ministry, of friends. On this point, Mr President, I have to say the following: firstly, in most cases, the appointment of leaders of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must be diplomats. Diplomats cannot be appointed under a replacement regime, they are even appointed by a discretionary decision of the Minister and the Prime Minister if they are General Directors, and that is how we do it. That is, in fact, one of the reasons why our diplomacy is so qualified. Secondly, I never, in my life, much less in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, asked anyone who would name their religious conceptions, whom he was married to, whom he liked, which was the football club, which was the political party or which was the vote. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, the Director-General for Foreign Affairs, the Director-General for European Affairs, the Director-General for Consular Affairs and the Portuguese Communities, the Inspector-General, the Director-General for Foreign Affairs, the President of the Camões Institute, the President of AICEP, will notice that they are all highly qualified persons, all of them loyal to the government that is in office irrespective of the nature of the government, all of them with careers and professional experiences, here and abroad, of the highest value, and that is why Portuguese diplomacy is so strong. And that is also why Antonio Guterres was elected Secretary-General of the United Nations, that Antonio Vitorino was elected Director-General of the International Organization for Migration, that Teresa Ribeiro was elected Representative for the Freedom of the Media of the OSCE...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u78	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u79	And so many others. Therefore, Mr President, I admit to you anything less than, at present, that you want to disqualify Portuguese diplomacy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u80	You have the floor to ask questions, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u81	Mr President, Minister, land tomorrow in Lisbon, Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, leader of the Belarusian opposition to dictator Aleksander Lukashenko, who 26 years ago oppresses the people of Belarus. I greet you and the Portuguese Government for receiving it. I hope that these conversations will be productive from Mrs Tikhanovskaya's point of view so that she won't get out of here by hand. Mrs Tikhanovskaya, who came to ask for help from Portugal to be presiding over the European Council, said a few days ago that she believed that the European Union was an immense and sometimes slow machine. And time, in Belarus is perceived differently, because for the many innocent people who are in prison — there are 1,000 people arrested with formal accusations only for protesting — every day is an eternity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u83	Mr Minister, what do you have to offer Mrs Tikhanovskaya tomorrow, or Thursday, or Friday, so that she won't get out of here?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u84	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u85	Mr President, Mr President, yes, I confirm that tomorrow I will receive several, in fact, in the Government — the leader of the Belarusian opposition, with great pleasure. Belarus is today one of the most authoritarian states Europe has, and this is unacceptable for Portugal, and it is unacceptable for the European Union. What do we do? We do what democracies do. We do not impose sanctions on economies, we do not decree the extraterritoriality of sanctions, we define sanctions regimes that specifically address natural and collective persons, which we have already approved in relation to Belarus, including the President of Belarus himself, and we work diplomatically and politically with the isolation of the regime and support for civil society. That's how democracies do. If you know how else to proceed, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u86	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u87	Mr President, Minister, these sanctions, now extended for another year, have been in force for nine months and there is no great progress, on the contrary. I wonder why that's not working. I would also like to talk to you briefly about another important issue in the context of the European Union's trade policy review. All the ministers with responsibility in the area of trade met yesterday to appreciate the proposal which the Commission itself had made, unless I was mistaken in mid-February, which has several aspects to which we agree, such as opening up the economy in the context of recovery, multilateralism, etc. etc. , but which then speaks of « assertiveness in defending European interests and values ». And here we go again — European interests and values. It is that European environmental values are still guarded in this free trade agreement with Mercosur ( the Southern Common Market ). I would like to ask you, too, if you think that the environmental safeguards provided for in this agreement are sufficient. But, if the environmental issue is, back and half, considered, the matter of human rights, these international agreements are rarely sufficiently safeguarded.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u88	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u89	I am not going to repeat what has already been said here about the people uighur by Mr André Silva. I will say that China not only behaves badly with regard to the Uighur people and the province of Xinjiang, it is wrong on the border with India, it is wrong in the intimidating military maneuvers in the South China Sea, it is wrong in what has been the context of the limitation of political rights in Hong Kong.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u90	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u91	I therefore ask, in particular, that the safeguards in this agreement with China are appropriate and sufficient? And do you consider environmental safeguards sufficient in the Mercosur agreement?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u92	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your question. You know that one of the things leading Europeanists like me to be convincingly European is the fact that the European Union is one of the few regions in the world where interests match values. And that makes a lot of difference in other regions. We do not put our interests ahead of our values, nor do we have to put them, because our interests and values match. With regard to the two concrete questions you have asked me, my answer is very simple, and I can give you as President-in-Office of the Council for Foreign Affairs and Trade Training, which is one of my current hats. I tell you, as I say to all my colleagues, that further clarification is needed to ensure that all the standards required for compliance with the Mercosur agreement and for the investment principle agreement with China are respected. Moreover, we are working with the Mercosur countries to further clarify the Mercosur agreement and therefore we also have as much time as is necessary in front of us to ensure the same treatment of the agreement in principle with China. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u94	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Capoulas Santos has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u95	Mr President, Minister, the PS Parliamentary Group would like to begin this intervention by commending the Government for its good performance with regard to the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The status and perception of Portugal today in European institutions and in public opinion have changed a lot since 2015, mainly due to the practical demonstration that with realism and moderation there were other ways in the European framework beyond the austerity revenue that almost suffocated the country by 2015, and by the serene, responsible and pragmatic stance assumed by the Portuguese Government in the process of resurgence of the European project initiated with the new Commission, and which had its fire proof in the historic decisions of July 2020. I wanted the fate of Portugal under the motto chosen by you — « Time to act: for a fair, green and digital recovery» — the complex task of, in six months, moving from proclamations to concrete implementation of the main instruments to combat the crisis and prepare the future beyond it. Unfortunately, some of these instruments, such as parliamentary ratifications on own resources, that the Assembly of the Republic is proud to have been one of the first parliaments to be implemented, do not depend on the Presidency. The Assembly of the Republic, with its own autonomy vis-à-vis the Government, which stems from the separation of powers, has come to maintain a position of follow-up and institutional cooperation, well expressed in the harmonization of priorities, mirrored in the programme of the parliamentary dimension of the Portuguese Presidency, which has also been running well, with the competent and committed performance of the President of the Assembly of the Republic and of many Members of Parliament and Members of all parliamentary groups and various parliamentary committees. This is a programme involving about ten and a half initiatives, which means an initiative, on average, every two weeks. These, in addition to the considerable number of Members of the 27 Member States, have had the participation of leading European and global political actors such as UN Secretary-General António Guterres, the President of the European Parliament, numerous MEPs and members of the Government of Portugal and other Member States, today morning we were with the Greek Foreign Minister, the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, the Director-General of the IMF (International Monetary Fund ), Kristalina Georgieva, the Secretary-General of NATO, the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Josep Borrel, the former head of the Brexit and several European Commissioners. in these two months of exercise, the Portuguese Presidency of the Council has had great visibility on the issues that concern the most European citizens: the health crisis, the vaccination and the response to the economic crisis, already brought to this debate by colleagues who have preceded me and who have deserved clarification by you, Minister. However, the Presidency has been working on the relaunch of other important cases, some of which have been blocked for years, such as the taxation of financial transactions or directives on the taxation of multinationals and on money laundering or on the extension of the flexibility rules of the Stability and Growth Pact, which we have heard today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like the Government to be able to clarify this House on the Presidency's position on these issues. Finally, I would also like to ask the Presidency about the rumors in Brussels that a further good initiative of the Presidency will soon be to unlock the impasse for the launch of the Conference on the Future of Europe. Because of the silence the Euro MP Paulo Rangel referred to, everything leads him to believe that such rumors must be grounded. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, I would like to remind the Minister that the Assembly of the Republic, in accordance with the positions taken by the Committee on European Affairs in the Cosac Presidency ( Conference of the specialized bodies in Community Affairs ), adopted a resolution which was also signed by almost all national parliaments a few days ago, claiming a status consistent with the troika of COsAC in the executive committee of the Conference, including the possibility of presenting proposals and participating in discussions on an equal footing with the representatives of the Commission, Parliament and the Council. I would like to know what you can tell us about this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u96	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am grateful for the questions put by Mr Capoulas Santos and, if I may, I would like to commend him, and in my case, the praise I give to Parliament is more justified than the praise that Parliament gives me. In fact, the parliamentary dimension of the Portuguese Presidency's programme is remarkable in all respects. Notably because of the level of participation that has succeeded in mobilizing, but above all notable for the themes you have chosen, for the opportunity of these themes and also for alignment, for the perfect fit between the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency and the priorities of the trio of presidencies to which we belong. And that is a good walkway, a good passage to the theme of the Conference on the Future of Europe. In fact, this morning the Council agreed with a Portuguese proposal, which allowed a situation of impasse to be unblocked. And the Council — I believe, indeed, unanimously — supported a Portuguese proposal for a tripartite presidency of the Conference on the Future of Europe and also the proposal for an executive organisation of that presidency, which not only involves all three institutions, Parliament, the Council and the Commission, but also allows other parliamentary formations that add value, including COSAC and the various committees of European affairs of the national parliaments, to contribute to the success of this conference. It is very important that this conference is not the ultimate discussion on legal laws and architecture and is a strong, free discussion with citizens and civil society, but also with parliaments and other institutions on the future of Europe, that is, the future of our public policies, which respond to the anxieties, desires and also to the projects of European citizens. I am also grateful for the reference that you have made to the capacity which, so far, the Portuguese Presidency has and, I am sure, will continue to have, such is the highest quality of its management, starting with the Ambassador Secretary of State for European Affairs, continuing with our Permanent Representative and Deputy Permanent Representative and all its teams and the Directorate-General for European Affairs. The professional excellence of all these teams has enabled us to overcome some impasses that existed for years or to unearth very important decisions, but which were paralyzed by difficulty of understanding, also for years. I only give a few examples, if I may. The example of the fight against the bureaucracy of European construction itself: after five years of fruitless discussions, it was the Portuguese Presidency that managed to pass a review of the preparatory bodies of the Council meetings, which means eliminating one fifth of the working groups that have so far met so that the Council could meet below. Other very important examples, in particular from the point of view of fiscal transparency and accountability, are in the directive called CBCR (Country-by-country reporting), finally under Portuguese Presidency. The majority support needed by the Council has been obtained for large multinational companies to be forced to report their profits, country by country. The Portuguese Presidency, faithful to its own commitment, in the enhanced cooperation in which it was involved, restated on the table the issue of taxation of financial transactions, which is also essential to ensure that the payment of the loan of EUR 750 billion which the European Commission, on our behalf, raises on the market, is not only on the shoulders of national contributions but can be partly ensured by new resources owning the European Union. We have managed to unlock the privacy directive in electronic communications and we are also making progress in negotiating with the European Parliament so that all the programmes in the Plurianual Financial Framework can be on the ground as soon as possible. For example, the regulations on the Structural Funds, the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund are blocked, which means that EUR 240 billion of financial resources will become available. The Horizon Programme is already on the ground. It is EUR 95 billion in support of research, innovation and technology. The national ratifications of the decision on own resources are under way and have already been completed by seven Member States, one of which Portugal, with the valuable intervention of the Assembly of the Republic and of you, Mr President, in particular. Two more Member States are completing their proceedings and 18 Member States have already delivered the first versions of their national plans. Therefore, I think we will arrive at the end of June and may say that it was time to act, act and achieve results. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u98	Even in the time of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Lara Martinho has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u99	First of all, I welcome Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mr Secretary of State, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, after years of scepticism about the future of the transatlantic relationship, social, economic and environmental divergences and systematic attempts to devalue the multilateral system, recent weeks mark the beginning of the realization of a hope that has not died, mark the beginning of the expected and desired approximation between the United States of America and the European Union. in a recent dialogue between the European Union and the new US administration, the intention was made clear not only to deepen the partnership between the European Union and the United States of America, but also to build a global, joint alliance in the fight against the pandemic, the recovery and mitigation of climate change by promoting and guaranteeing democratic values. It may have been mere coincidence, but I can only point out that yesterday both the United States and the European Union have announced new sanctions concerning the violation of human rights in Russia. The reality is that now, more than ever, we realize and feel that democracy is not an acquired data, that democracy has to be protected. Moreover, as President Joe Biden said, in so many places, including the United States and Europe, the progress of democracy is under attack and, therefore, today, perhaps more than ever, we need a strong, resilient transatlantic relationship that promotes world peace and security, which defends human rights and international order, promoting multilateralism as a way to find solutions to world problems. For shared problems shared solutions, this should be the design. And if there is anything that this pandemic has highlighted, it is even the importance of a concerted response to crises, threats and challenges that are global, such as peace, security, human rights, the rule of law, sustainable development, public health or climate change. Only with an effective multilateral system based on universal rules and values can we successfully face these challenges. from that it is so important that Portugal and the European Union continue to support the reform efforts undertaken by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Eng.António Guterres, whose remandature, in addition to reason of great pride for Portugal, is undoubtedly a further value for humanity, and that we greet very much. Mr. Minister, the emerging global challenges, since the strengthening of multilateralism to climate change, globalisation, technological developments and the rise of China, add to the new pandemic paradigm. It is important to make the most of trade policy to support the recovery of the COVID-19 pandemic and the technological and digital transformation of the European economy, with the ambition of creating a stronger Europe, a more resilient Europe in the world. Mr Minister, I would therefore ask you three questions. The first question, on the transatlantic relationship, is the following: what can it mean to have the United States again with an open vision of union and sharing common strategic objectives for strengthening multilateralism? The second is about the new European trade policy. It has already been mentioned here at the meeting that took place yesterday and asked you the main conclusions of this informal meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council, which will have this review of trade policy on the development of trade and economic partnerships with Africa and the Mediterranean and finally how Portugal will benefit from its implementation and, together with the new Internationalisation 2030 Programme, which can contribute to the growth of Portuguese exports. One last question about digital transformation. European sovereignty and leadership in the field of digital, as well as its international competitiveness and affirmation as a relevant player in the global geopolitical and strategic scenario, are inseparable, for example, from the issue of international connectivity. And it is of extreme importance that the Portuguese Presidency has put particular emphasis on this issue, and international connectivity is a key pillar for Europe to ensure digital leadership in the international scene, in which Portugal and its autonomous regions can play a key role, due to its geostrategic location. I wonder what concrete steps Portugal has taken in this area, what role the Portuguese Presidency has played in affirming the Union's strategic and digital sovereignty and how this commitment to international connectivity, through new submarine cable routes, can benefit the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u100	To reply, Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions you have raised. The honourable Member already knows that whenever I look forward to establishing an interaction with Azorian Members, I bring my Azorian tie, from the Azorian writers, and one of the autographs it contains is that of Natalia Correia. In 1950, Natalia Correia made a trip to the United States, carried a specific mission, commissioned by Antonio Sérgio, to contact whom, in the United States, could support Portuguese anti-fascist resistance. Natalia Correia was then 26 years old. He wrote a document on this journey, which he called Discoveri that it was European, because what impressed him most was what she considered to be the profound structural difference between the way of being Europeans and the way of being Americans. But I am afraid that Natália Correia, later, perhaps, reading the great American novel of Henry James, The Europeans, realized that this difference was more apparent than real and that the European matrix is even at the heart of American civilization. And we or, at least, since last January 20th feel this same new meeting, a rapprochement between these two European sides of the Atlantic, an older one, that we are, Europe, and another more recent one, that are they, the United States. And I always remember the first poem of the Message by Fernando Pessoa, when Fernando Pessoa says that Europe lies about the elbows, looks at the future, looks at the West, the future of the past, and the face with which it looks is Portugal. Therefore, in everything that you said about the importance of the transatlantic relationship, the role of Portugal in this relationship and, specifically, the role of the autonomous regions, and of course also of the Azores — and we never forget that Roosevelt said they were closer to the east coast of the United States than Hawaii on the west coast of the United States — is absolutely essential. This may seem like poetry, and I'm not ashamed of you thinking I'm doing poetry, but it's foreign policy of the purest. It is that, when we talk about the revision of trade policy, but we also speak at the summit between Biden and the European leaders, which we hope will be held this semester at the next NATO summit, in the participation with the Americans at the summit of democracies and in looking together at the major regions of the world, for all we have to do in cooperation with Africa, in connection with Latin America, in balanced attention to peaceful Asia, we speak in very specific, very real concrete and that can be very valuable of this matrix link, which there is no need to be any shame in assuming. What we, Portuguese, do is a little, add José Saramago to Natalia Correia and tell our American friends that America is not only between Oregon and Florida, that America is also South America, it is also Latin America and therefore the transatlantic community that we need is a double transatlantic community, with the North Atlantic and the South Atlantic, without forgetting that the South Atlantic has two margins and on the other margin is Africa, Africa without which Europe has no future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u102	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the second round of questions, but first I ask Vice-President Edite Estrela to replace me in the chair of the Bureau. [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u103	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, my compliments. Let us then start the second round of questions in this debate. To that end, Mr Sérgio Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u104	Mr President, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, allow me to bring to this debate the problem of the outermost regions (RUP). Very particular geographical characteristics tell them a common identity. The principle of the ultra-periphery, enshrined in the Treaties, allowed these regions full but differentiated integration into the European Union. To treat different what is different is a requirement for the value of equality that we so value and that so good results have produced in this context. The affirmation of the principle of the ultraperipheral is an always unfinished process. We are asked for a constant search for the best solutions to achieve the treatment and specific support that is due to the outermost regions. The Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union is thus an excellent opportunity, which we cannot waste, promote and embrace the ultraperipheral cause. Mr Minister, how is the Government using the Portuguese Presidency to assert the ultraperipheral cause? As you know, there are pending cases at European level concerning the ORs which require close attention and follow-up. I am referring, for example, to the prospect of reducing support for agriculture following the reform of the common agricultural policy (CAP) ; to European non-participation in the effort to renew regional fishing fleets; to the inability to respond to activities seriously affected by the pandemic crisis, such as tourism; to the absence of a European response to migration problems, such as Venezuela's exodus. But, Minister, there is another dossier for which I would like to draw your attention and your follow-up. I am referring to the imperative need to review the European strategy for the ORs, which was established in 2017. The radical change in circumstances, as a result of the pandemic, requires an urgent review of this strategy. The European strategy cannot fail to reflect the even more overwhelming impact of the pandemic in these regions. I am referring to Madeira's example, which had a brutal contraction of its gross domestic product in 2020, which may exceed twice the national reduction. And, in 2021, this scenario threatens to repeat itself. Mr President, Minister, the very disturbing times we are living in call for convergence, understanding and solidarity, for European solidarity, but also for national solidarity, and that the first one does not dispense or replace the second one. Both are indispensable to support the outermost regions to successfully face the mission of overcoming the pandemic, eradicating the virus, saving lives, vaccinating and rebuilding and renewing the economic and social fabric. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u105	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u106	Mr President, Mr Sérgio Marques, I thank you for your questions. I would just like to say how important it is from the point of view of national policy and from the point of view of European and foreign policy. And we have worked well in the Presidency, knowing that we have very important assets, in particular the fact that the presidency of the Conference of the Ultraperipheral Regions is currently a Portuguese. The Secretary of State for European Affairs, in her missions, has also worked with the European Commission on several topics, including a possible review of the 2017 strategy. And, therefore, we must use all the balance, all the prudence and also all the intelligence in the way we are building, nationally, an interaction platform that can be fruitful with Brussels. I am afraid that, with the valuable help of the honourable Member in other functions, with regard to the integration of so many Venezuelans who have demanded Portugal and, in particular, the Autonomous Region of Madeira, in addition to the Aveiro district and other points of our territory, and I am sure that, with his wisdom, he will contribute to the achievement of a consensual and strong position that enables us to respond positively to the requests that the European Commission has made to us on the reform of certain aspects of the Madeira Free Zone regime in order to safeguard the essential of this regime. Of course we must all prepare for the transition, because the reform of the CAP is going in a greener sense, in an environmentally more demanding sense, and we must ensure that we have the conditions for that inelutable transition. But the main condition we have is the enormous value of our two outermost regions, so let us speak of the Azores and Madeira, from an environmental point of view, from the point of view of energy resources, from the point of view of the blue economy and the green economy, which are so essential to the transformation of the European economy. I am therefore sure that the path we have taken together with the two autonomous regions, within the competences of this ministry, will continue to be traced. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u107	To put a question to Mr. Minister, Mr. Carlos Gonçalves of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u108	Mr President, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, the decision of the United Kingdom to formally leave the European Union, led the British authorities to create a permanent residence status, the setted status, a vital status for our community to live in the United Kingdom. We have therefore come to appeal to the Government to take the necessary measures to enable the consular network to respond to the needs of Portuguese residents in that country and we have called for an information campaign on the setted status, in particular using institutional advertising, which unfortunately has not been heard. We are talking about an estimated community in some 400 000 nationals. In fact, if the total number of Portuguese with British address in the citizen's card amounts to 335 000, the difficulties of our consular network in that country led many Portuguese to choose to make their documents in the national territory, and it is expected to reach this value of 400 000. Now last week, numbers came out telling us that the status of residence has already been requested by 331 000 Portuguese. These figures point to a situation in which we can have several tens of thousands of Portuguese who have not yet formalized their candidacy and for which they also need valid Portuguese documents by the end of June. Unfortunately, the markings in consular posts are already going to that date and at this point we all know that coming to Portugal to make the documents is not an option. It is therefore imperative that the Minister clarify this House whether, among other measures, our consulates have adopted a priority care system — an open-door type — capable of responding immediately to the urgent demands of these citizens. I would also like to clarify whether a specific service has been set up with several officials to monitor this situation and support these Portuguese. Time is short, but perhaps it is still the time of the government, finally, to be sensitive to this issue. Minister, what is at stake is the life and future of many Portuguese people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u109	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u110	Madam President, I thank Mr Gonçalves, whose concerns are entirely legitimate. These are the concerns of all of us, whether government or opposition, so I can assure you this: we will create all the necessary conditions for all Portuguese to be able to register their residence in the United Kingdom, wanting to do so. The rate of registration is being good — much better than was anticipated at first — and, as I said, we have exceeded the 330 000 applications processed, but of course what counts is that we reach as close as possible to the 100 % of those who need or want to register. With this, what we will continue to do is what we have done over these years, that is to say, strengthen our capacity, in particular consular, by adapting the way in which we operate to the health and other rules which the United Kingdom imposes. Of course, the Portuguese consulates of London and Manchester cannot operate at the wake of and at the expense of the rules of the British public authorities decided on health reasons. Our relationship with the United Kingdom is crucial, also for a happy chance. Before this debate in plenary, what was most important today was a telephone conference with my British colleague, Minister Dominic Raab, who was very productive and in which we were unanimous in saying that, within the post-Brexit, the increase in bilateral relations between the United Kingdom and Portugal was an absolute priority in all dimensions, of people's contact with economic relations and our cooperation in foreign policy, multilateral organisations and the major common agendas. Today, the United Kingdom prepares COP26 (United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties) and Portugal prepares the Conference of the Oceans, being the obvious link, that is, the way we can cooperate together in our relationship with East Africa, wherever the United Kingdom as Portugal has so much influence and presence, or in Latin America. This wide range of topics that constitute the bilateral agenda and the multilateral cooperation agenda has been explored. Therefore, Mr President, my best expectation is that we will arrive at the end of June with the outstanding problems in all areas resolved, as we arrived at the end of December 2019 conveniently prepared for an unagreed exit and as we arrived at the end of 2020 fully prepared to implement the exit agreement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u111	In order also to question Mr. Minister, Mr. José Cesario of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State, Secretary of State yesterday in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, what we feared happened. The government has confirmed what we have been complaining about: the existence of a genuine lapse in consular services. In 2020 50 % of consular acts were carried out in 2019. Also that year, in 2020, only 20 % of the consular stays of 2019 were carried out. We also learned that the online scheduling platform, which did not work for much of the year 2020, did not work because, exactly, it is an old platform and does not have the conditions to respond effectively. We also learned that in the large consular network positions in São Paulo, Paris, the schedules are made, today, four and five months. We know more: there are embassies that work today without any official who can issue acts involving Portuguese. Yesterday, in the Congo, Portuguese were arrested because, having no valid documents, they were unable to obtain their residence permits. In view of this, what solutions? That's what we care about! I would like the Minister to tell us exactly how the new model of consular management will specifically respond to the needs of these Portuguese — and not only — who need to renew documents, to deal with the most varied types of problems. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u113	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u114	Madam President, I am grateful for the questions put by Mr José Cesario. My answer has a double dimension. First of all, he complains that last year we carried out 50 % of the consular acts we had carried out in the previous years. I have some news to tell the honourable Member: last year, we live in a pandemic; in many countries, there has been a general confinement; in many countries, public services had to be closed; in many Portuguese consulates, service to the public had to be suspended. He said that we had only made 20% of our consular stays last year, compared to previous years. Of course, Mr President, in many countries the movement between regions has been prohibited; in many countries the movement of people has been severely conditional. So I am not going to talk here now as if there had not been a pandemic and as if we had not lived in a pandemic and that would not force very severe limitations on the functioning of consular services, such as all other public services, Portuguese or any other country. About the future? The future is the one that is included in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, one of its main projects being a new consular management model, with 14 million euros allocated. The logic is always that of simplifying procedures. Once you have a single consular registration, people no longer have to contact the consulate with the changes of residence. It is the machine of the State that accompanies them and it is not the person who, at every moment, has to communicate to the machine of the State where it is. By approving such simple things as, for example, a port which I myself signed for days, which allows the delivery by mail of citizen cards, we have freed people from physical presence in consulates in the order of the many tens of thousands of acts per year. By dematerializing the process, we allow people, at any time and at any time, to be able to request documents and then subsequently follow up the processing of this request. I could continue, I didn't have to save some time for the next question, which must be difficult.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u115	Mr Eduardo Teixeira has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u116	Madam President, I would like to congratulate the Minister and the Members. Members of the Government. The times we live in, from a global point of view, are worrying and exceptional. It is urgent to have ready responses to constraints, in this struggle for collective survival, in health and in the economy, to ensure our future. from there today that brings to this House the subject of the cross-border territories and the harmful effects on our economic diplomacy, the closure or conditioning of land borders with our only neighbouring country, Spain, whose effects have been very difficult for our economy. But it is in international trade that we have a huge concern because the 2020 deficit, with the outside, has grown to EUR 2, EUR 8 billion, the main contraction being the collapse of our exports, which have returned 18, 6 %, and the imports that remained only in 12 %. There is no tramp size memory and today the rate of imports decreases less than exports. No, it cannot only be by the pandemic the justification for such regression of the Portuguese economic fabric out of doors. In particular, the transit of goods from our businesses and workers is revealing the enormous damage caused. If only in three months of 2020 the closure of the borders resulted in losses of almost EUR 100 million in the Northern Transboundary Councils and conditioned almost 25 000 workers, these last two months have also been very drastic. It is not understandable to keep borders, such as Vila Nova de Cerveira, closed, or, as in Melgaço, Monção, Ponte da Barca and Madalena, to run two or three hours a day, when the long lines detected waiting, in the transit of goods, are hours, having the economy of this region hundreds of thousands of effective hours lost that hinder our exports, as well as the lives of people who work outside, but live in Portugal. We need agility, Minister! Therefore, I ask you when it will open the various borders for workers and for the economy, especially those of Vila Nova de Cerveira, which is closed, or those of the conditioned at a few hours of daily opening, as is the case for so many in that country. What measures do you intend to take to overcome this problem and if they go through financial compensation to all those who are affected?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u117	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u118	I will finish, Madam President. Does it allow us to create, with our neighbours, a cross-border worker card, to create greater agility at checkpoints, avoiding the bureaucracy that has occurred in the passages? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u119	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u120	Mr President, Mr Teixeira, I would like to thank you for your comments and allow me to start with an observation too. This is a sectoral debate on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and not on matters of competence of the Ministry of Internal Administration. He knows better than I that the management of borders lies with those who have the responsibility to manage the territory and not with those who have the responsibility to manage the external relationship. As you know, I love to talk about everything and just remind you that the intervention in this debate of your Parliamentary Group began with a Member to criticize me for not having imposed quarantine immediately at the beginning of the pandemic. Therefore, they understand, harmonise, articulate! [[PSD MP Eduardo Teixeira's protests.]] On the issue of the trade balance, I also have some news to tell the honourable Member: last year, international travel was stopped, aviation was stopped, international tourism was reduced to an absolutely residual expression. If you want to answer the question 'What is the main factor that explains the breakdown of exports in Portugal last year', you will find that the first and second most important sectors for Portuguese exports — namely tourism and travel — have suffered a brutal fall last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u121	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u122	Yes, Madam President. Therefore, it is natural that this breakdown has been reflected in global values. That is why, moreover, we must be very careful in defining, in order to avoid another logic of para-starting, because this will contribute again so that the economy cannot rise. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u123	It is now the turn of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr Paulo Pisco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u124	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mrs. State Secretaries, we live a time of pandemic, but the PSD seems to have been crystallized in time, still in January 2020. This means, firstly, that it seems to be outside reality not only in relation to policies for communities, which are clearly one of our priorities, but also in relation to all other matters. Mr Minister, Portugal assumes the presidency of the Council of the European Union precisely at the time of the turn in international relations, which is an excellent opportunity for us to once again be able to leave our own mark, as happened in previous presidencies, with the Lisbon Strategy and also with the Lisbon Treaty. We can do this by making our contribution to the reform of multilateral organizations and to convergence with the United States in the defence of the values of democracy, human rights and a world in which autocrats can no longer do what they want. The Union is more assertive in defending values, more determined to find its place in the world and to make its voice heard. It is therefore an excellent sign of the recent approval of the new human rights sanctions mechanism and of the determination to move forward towards the reform of multilateral organizations, starting with the United Nations and its agencies. The world needs multilateral institutions operating to protect people from war, injustice, poverty, disease and environmental degradation. It needs a Security Council with more members, without the right of veto being transformed into an instrument to forever resolve dramatic conflicts, which Syria is one of the sad examples. After this period of drift and distance from Trump administration, we now realize better that the European Union alone does not have the capacity to design its values, requiring strong allies to do so. These allies are neither China, nor Russia, nor India, nor Turkey, with whom we have other types of ties, perhaps even quite important, but not those that constitute our identity based on humanist values and on the defense of freedoms. Mr Minister, how far can the European Union go in defending its values and in reforming multilateral organisations? Will you be able to be equal in relation to the United States? Will you be able to strike a fair balance between dialogue, cooperation and the need for firmness when our interests and values are at stake? Will there be conditions to deal effectively with challenges such as the rise of China or the provocations of Russia? It is precisely in this context of transformation that Eng.António Guterres submits his candidacy to a second mandate in the United Nations, he himself expresses our universalist vocation, as are the Portuguese communities in the world—one of our most precious assets—and the very important effort to expand our language and culture across all continents, from basic education to universities, as the Minister also mentioned. This is clearly a candidacy that unites the country, which fills us with pride and once again gives our diplomacy the opportunity to show its development. Every time he came to a place in the United Nations, Antonio Guterres conquered him for his own merit, his unbreakable humanism and his political experience at the service of the peoples. António Guterres has been a periphery in the defense of vaccines as a global, affordable and economic public good for all, everywhere, and not as some countries have done, using them as a perverse tool of geopolitics, for the exchange of favors or gains of influence. The truth is that one year after the pandemic was declared there was genuine European solidarity and extraordinary progress in combating the virus, with an unprecedented investment to accelerate the creation of a vaccine and make its distribution equitable by the Member States. But there are still many challenges, such as the need to bring vaccines to all as quickly as possible, both Europeans and countries with less resources, particularly through the Covax platform. It is necessary to defeat the new variants of the virus and to ensure that there will be no exclusions or discriminations with the vaccine passport or with the immunity certificate. This is one of the areas in which European solidarity must be global, as our solidarity with the Portuguese-speaking fraternal countries is demonstrated, which will receive 5% of our vaccines, as Prime Minister announced. Minister, what are the chances of António Guterres being re-elected for a second term? What are the most pressing challenges facing the pandemic? Where are Portugal going to give 5 % of the vaccines to the countries of Portuguese expression? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u125	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have formalised the nomination of Eng.António Guterres, current Secretary-General of the United Nations, for a new mandate and we do not anticipate any difficulties in this re-election for three fundamental reasons. Firstly, because António Guterres has, during his term of office, given sufficient evidence of his ability to manage an organization based on multilateralism, therefore based on consensus, on approximations, in the sense of commitment, in the sense of integration of regions, countries, values and interests, the most different and apparently at times incompatible with each other. Secondly, because Antonio Guterres, as he had promised in his 2016 candidacy, brought a reform agenda for the United Nations, either in relation to the Security Council, either in relation to the architecture of peace and security, or in relation to the development system, or in relation to the promotion of gender equality in all United Nations posts. Thirdly, because António Guterres knew what a Secretary-General of the United Nations has to be, that is to have a moral conscience of humanity, but at the same time being able to identify precisely what issues humanity faces as such, for which everyone must compete. Guterres was absolutely unequivocal in identifying the climate challenge, the environmental challenge, such as this existential issue that humanity faces and that it is essential to overcome, to ensure the survival of humanity, and that humanity can only face together. So our expectations are the best. One thing is certain: António Guterres deserves the new mandate and will be an excellent Secretary-General in the second term, as it was in the first. With regard to the United Nations intervention and the role of Europe as a global actor—as we like to say in this elan— I would like to say how important the reform agenda is in all the major United Nations organizations. I'm going to give just one example, because I don't have time to address others, which is that of the World Trade Organization. I begin, perhaps, in a way that will be unexpected to some of you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is by identifying where President Donald Trump was right. President Donald Trump was right in identifying the problem of China, after his accession to the World Trade Organization as a developing country, had become, however, in the world's second largest economy, but wanted to be treated and continued to be treated within the World Trade Organisation, as if it were still a developing economy. This adaptation must be done, but it cannot be done in the way of President Trump, who has been blocking the appeal body, blocking the appeal bodies, blocking the operation of the organization and finally blocking the choice of its new Director-General. Fortunately, the signs and acts of the Biden Administration have been in the opposite direction. With Biden in the White House, it was immediately possible to unlock the choice of the new Director-General, who is, in fact, a citizen of dual nationality, Nigerian and American, and we hope to be able to work with the United States, taking into account the next ministerial conference, probably at the end of this year, on this agenda of the reform of the World Trade Organization. As a European Union, we value transparency, therefore, annexed to the Communication on Trade Policy Review, there comes the European Union agenda for WTO reform. At the meeting I chaired yesterday, among the ministers of trade, this Commission agenda was widely welcomed. Mr. Paulo Pisco, we must always be aware that a path has been made to reach the positions that Portugal today occupies in the United Nations system. It would not have been possible the kind of positions we occupy today without the fine work done by Prof. Diogo Freitas do Amaral, the celebrated Diogo Freitas do Amaral, as President of the General Assembly of the United Nations ; without the work of Dr. Jorge Sampaio, as special envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, first for the Alliance of Civilizations, and then for the Fight against Tuberculosis ; without the work of several high officials, who today make the United Nations, leaving Guterres, leaving Vitorino, we have one of the Vice-Presidents of the World Bank, which is the coordinator of the preparation of the Human Development Index, which is Portuguese for the United Nations peace missions, who are so prominent in the World Food Programme, who is the deputy secretary-general for legal affairs, and out there. This constellation is important to us. Given our history, given our vocation, given the fact that we are a medium-sized state, it is very important for us not only multilateralism, but also the ability to build bridges and the awareness that the collective problems of humanity are better solved by means of concertation than by confrontation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u127	To also address a question to the Minister, Mr Carlos Brás of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mr Minister, first of all, would like to greet the Government, in the person of V. Exa, on the schedule of the European Union-India Summit for the next 7 May, still above a location as happy as the city of Porto. We know that democracies do not move to the palms, but in fact both the European Union and India are the two largest democratic blocs in the world. Above all, India is a growing economic power and there are studies that indicate that shortly by 2050 it will be the second strongest economy in the world, soon after that in China. This summit is therefore of particular importance. But I would like to introduce another issue, which has to do with the weight of trade in the European economy, in order to give Mr Minister the opportunity to clarify to us a little bit the new line of guidance for European trade policy which was disseminated last week. We know that the pandemic has been a catalyst in this area and that the search for new commercial partnerships has been accelerated. Mr President, I would ask you to clarify the situation with regard to the reform of the World Trade Organisation and the multilateral agreements that are being signed. I would also like us to clarify what this dynamic of seeking a more open, sustainable and assertive commercial policy means, especially to clarify this last adjective — 'assertive'. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u129	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u130	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by answering your question, on what the adjective 'assertive' means, with a practical example: already under the Portuguese Presidency last month, we have concluded the adoption of an instrument - whose name is very difficult to translate into Portuguese - and the Enforcement, therefore, put into effect, put into effect. It is a commercial instrument for the European Union to exercise its rights precisely when the other party to a bilateral agreement refuses to proceed with arbitration or, in the case of a multilateral agreement, arbitration is not made out of paralysis of the WTO appeal body. It's just an example, I could give others. The previous designation of the Chief Trade Enforcement Officer by the European Union is in the same line. The goal is to be more firm in defending our interests, because one of our interests is also to better control the production and supply chains of goods that are critical to us. There are two ways to do this: one way is to think that we are still in the 17th century and that we are dealing with the trade flows; the other way is to realize that we are in the 21st century and that the European Union is the world's first trading partner in goods, it is the first in services and it is the world's first investor. So autonomy, yes, but it has to be opened by the diversification of supply sources. It is in this context that the Portuguese Presidency clearly needs to complete the ongoing negotiations with both Mercosur and Mexico and to accelerate with Chile, New Zealand and Australia. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u131	Mr Francisco Oliveira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to put questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u132	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs State Secretaries, Mrs. Secretary of State, I'll be very brief. This is a worrying situation that has to do with the issues of the countries of the south, particularly of North Africa, including the Maghreb. We know of the economic difficulties of these countries, which have been aggravated by the pandemic, and the situation of many citizens of these countries is quite difficult. If Europe faces a terrible crisis in these countries, then the crisis is much more dramatic. One of the sectors that has suffered most from this pandemic — and the Minister has just mentioned it — is that of tourism, which is strong in this area, the situation that has caused many citizens to unemployment. All this to say that migration issues will worsen because of the need for these people to seek better living conditions in other countries, particularly in Europe. In the summer, it is clear that there is an increase in migration from these countries in North Africa, and the issue is that the existing humanitarian problems will be exacerbated, with many countries tending to limit the entry of migrants. in this sense, the question I put to you is what the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union will be going to follow in order to prevent the worsening of humanitarian issues that may occur. Mr Minister, I had another question, but I'll leave it to my colleague to put it later.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u133	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u134	Mr President, Member of the House, you are absolutely right. Therefore, one of the innovations of the Portuguese Presidency is to convene a joint meeting of Ministers of Internal Administration and Ministers of Foreign Affairs to address and address the external dimension of migration. The same will be done on the next 15th of March and I will be happy to report your results to the Assembly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u135	I have the floor to ask your questions, Mr Paulo Porto, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Minister, the Government of Venezuela has just expelled the Ambassador of the European Union in Caracas because of the positions taken in defence of democracy, the rule of law and against economic and social degradation which has so much affected Venezuelans and, of course, the entire important Portuguese community resident in Venezuela. In view of this framework, I wonder how Portugal, which knows Venezuela well and has never closed the door to dialogue with the Venezuelan Government, can contribute to the resolution of this tension between the European Union and Venezuela to have a good solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u137	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u138	Madam President, I would like to thank the honourable Member for his question. I think, of the little that I have learned from diplomacy, which is the same time to use two verbs which are a little strange to Portuguese, but which can be used without any grammar « giving impulses». These are the verbs « reciprocal» and « unscaling ». Ambassador Isabel Pedrosa has been declared an ungrateful person. The European Union could only ‘reciprocate’ and, therefore, the Ambassador of Venezuela to the European Union was declared non-grateful. This adjustment is now time to 'unscale', i.e. time to contain, it is time not to continue. That is because — and Mr certainly noticed — the only public comment I made about the Venezuelan Government's decision was that I regretted it because it aggravated Venezuela's international isolation and, to solve the crisis in Venezuela, the worsening international isolation of Venezuela is a bad solution. The European Union is no one's opponent in Venezuela and wants to be a partner of Venezuelans to find solutions to the humanitarian, economic and social crisis there. These solutions can only exist if we resolve the political crisis. Venezuela has no resource problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u139	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u140	I conclude, Madam President. Venezuela is one of the richest countries in the world in natural resources, is one of the countries of Latin America with the most human capital and is a country with a traditionally very strong institutional framework. It has a political problem, it has to solve this political problem and what we can do to help solve it - we will do it. Why is that our interest? Because there are now a million citizens who live in Venezuela and who also have European citizenship. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u141	We now move on to the time of the Left Block, so you have the floor to Mrs Alexandra Vieira to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the report by Amnesty International on the serious human rights situation, which lives in the Mozambican province of Cabo Delgado, located in the north of the country has been published many days ago. Also known as the « Forgotten Cape », the region lacks infrastructure and, without the presence of the State, populations survive as they can. Mozambique is one of the poorest countries in the world and Cape Delgado is the poorest province. Non-governmental development organisations (NGOs) have been developing actions in the region for a long time. Villages, houses, schools, churches, mosques, medical centers, distribution of agricultural bays, seeds and training in agricultural techniques, among other activities, were implemented in the region. According to the latest report by UNICEF ( United Nations Children's Fund ) a few years ago, levels of poverty and education had increased substantially. However, since 2017, a group of insurgents, mercenary forces and the Mozambican Army have been engulfed in an endless conflict, with almost 2,000 dead, more than 500,000 displaced people, of whom 250,000 are children. This drama occurs on a remote corner of the world that of poor has nothing: the largest natural gas deposits are located north of the province. Multinationals are already preparing their exploitation and extraction for which they cannot rely on local workers because they do not have the necessary qualifications. If history doesn't repeat, can we say the same thing about mistakes? Everything indicates no. Valuable natural riches for the developed world are greedily coveted, with nothing returned to the local populations, especially to the younger, desperate in a better life. There are no social investments and infrastructures, widespread corruption, wealth is concentrated on local elites linked to central power, and discontent with government is growing. Can we also say that it is surprising that young people have adhered to religious radicalisms that are taking place in the region from Tanzania? The answer is 'no'! The attacks continue right now. People die, live in despair and violence. Worsening the situation, the Left Block knows that the humanitarian aid that can reach the camps, in Pemba, the capital, is not organized. No one knows who distributes or receives and the black market flourishes. It is total discoordination and the Mozambican Government is not being able to resolve either. Mr. Minister is responsible for leading the European Union mission in Mozambique. As the military formation of the important Mozambican Army does not solve the question of the humanitarian crisis. In view of the historical circumstances of Portugal's presiding over the European Council, is it available to pursue and lead multilateral efforts to contribute to the resolution of the structural reasons behind the conflict, starting with ensuring that humanitarian aid reaches people in Cape Delgado?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u143	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by delimiting the space of my answer in two ways. Firstly, recalling that I met at the closed door with the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities, on 17 February, just so that we could, together, address all the issues which naturally cannot be addressed but with reservations. Secondly, as I would not like my colleague Minister for Foreign Affairs to take part in a debate in Parliament in Maputo, in the National Assembly. Members referred to the Portuguese Government in terms of which, legitimately, the honourable Member referred, I will not come into this kind of discussion. I will therefore focus on one of the points that Mrs Delgado has mentioned and on which she is quite right, which is the importance of having an answer that is not exclusively secure to the problems experienced in Cape Delgado. The problems in Cape Delgado are not equivalent. It is not a digladition between insurgent forces, terrorists or whatever they may be called and government forces. It is even an international terrorist network that invades populations, rapes women, beheads people and forces the escape of entire populations. That's what we're talking about. It is clear that the most sustainable solution is the one that seeks to create conditions for the people of Cape Delgado to enjoy the benefits of the enormous riches that it has not only in gas but also in precious wood and minerals, among others. I therefore draw attention to the importance of the development support dimension in the European response and the leading participation of Portugal in that response. We will manage, through our Portuguese cooperation, that is, through the Camões Institute, the project + Employment, which will start now and whose target audience are more than 1200 people. What are these people? It's the young ones. What do we want to do with them? Provide them with vocational training. For what? In order to have just the necessary professional qualifications so that not only companies can take advantage of natural wealth, creating wealth for the population, as well as opportunities for employment and positive life paths for young generations in that region. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u145	Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Minister, the situation in refugee camps remains dramatic. The humanitarian crisis remains unchanged. An Afghan woman, pregnant, who lived in Lesbos' camp, attempted suicide when she knew she could not travel to Germany to give birth. This situation reveals the distress and distress of those who have been living for several months in these centres of overcrowded detention, unhealthy, where food and medical care are lacking. Government organisations have drawn the attention of European institutions to the lack of basic conditions in the new Lesbos field, which has been set up as a temporary solution to accommodate Moria's displaced persons. The International Rescue Committee ( IRC ) highlights the mental health crisis that was installed due to the confinement imposed by the pandemic. A report published by this organization reveals that one in three people living on these sites has already considered suicide. This situation is not new, it has already been reported several times and it is incomprehensible that the European Union does not yet have a definitive solution for these people. A humanitarian response will have to go through the profound change in this evil host model. An essential measure will be the evacuation of persons from the islands to the Greek mainland, giving priority to the most vulnerable, including pregnant women. Will the Government, within the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, support this solution? Given the conditions under which people live in refugee camps, we want to know what measures have been implemented to control and prevent the COVID-19 pandemic and we want to know the situation on the vaccination plan in refugee camps. The UN estimates that 250 million people in 2050 will be severely affected by climate change, becoming in danger and seriously affecting their living conditions. in a recent deliberations of the United Nations Human Rights Council, this Council argued that anyone who flees for the effects of climate change cannot be forced to return, having to be welcomed. This important decision opens up the possibility for climate-affected people to receive international protection. We consider this recognition of the climate refugee as a fundamental measure and we believe that this measure should be taken as an integral part of a fair, supportive and humanist climate response, and we have incorporated this measure into the proposal for the Climate Bases Act that we have tabled. In view of the fact that the Prime Minister has announced the Government's support for the candidacy of Antonio Guterres as Secretary-General of the United Nations and in view of the information Mr. Minister gave today on the formulation of this candidacy, we want to know whether the Portuguese State will follow this UN decision, and the proposal of the Left Block, and recognize the status of climate refugees to those who are forced to leave their territory as a result of a climate emergency. Will Portugal declare its host country for climate refugees? My last question has to do with the report by the CIA (Central Intelligence Agency) which was released by the Biden Administration on Jamal Khashoggi's murder. This report, widely cited in the media and whose authenticity has not been denied, confirms the involvement of the heir prince of Saudi Arabia in the heinous murder of the journalist. I ask you: before this new information and having Portugal the Presidency of the European Union, what will the Minister do? Are you going to ask for responsibilities or let the murderers and those responsible remain unpunished?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u147	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u148	Madam President, I am grateful for the questions put by Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias and, starting with the last one, the record that she accepts — and it is normal and good to accept — that there are reports from the CIA that have credible information and that can be useful for our action. I must say that the European Union reacted, but not now; it reacted when the murder of journalist Khashoggi, if I do not fail my name, but the honourable Member knows who I am referring to, demanding an inquiry, accompanying an international United Nations inquiry, valuing and supporting the rapporteur of that investigation and taking the measures that — and it is not worth remembering again — democracies take on international relations. I must say that the concept of climate refugees makes sense, because what happens to refugees, what distinguishes them from migrants and makes them beneficiaries of international humanitarian law, and therefore there is a moral obligation not only as legal to host and defend, is the fact that a refugee has to leave his country or region of origin because his life was in danger in that country and, unlike migrants, we cannot demand the return of refugees, but we must welcome them under international humanitarian law. This can happen because there is a civil or international war in that country, because there are ethnic persecutions in that country, because there are armed conflicts, because there are gross violations of human dignity, but it can also happen because there is drought, there is hunger, there are consequences of climate change and therefore the climate refugee is still a'refugee'. In fact, there is no one who can understand it better than António Guterres, who for 10 years was the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees who stood out for personal commitment, independence and bravery that he put into his duties. I take this opportunity, because I just didn't have time to answer Mr Peralta, to say that we need to intervene up so that climate change can be controlled and the only thing I wanted to say is that we have to act effectively. Positions that may sometimes seem kind may be counterproductive because of their maximalism. It has already been so difficult to reach agreement between the Member States of the European Union on the target of 55 % reduction of gas emissions on the 2030 horizon that if we now put that consensus in question, because we want to move to 60 %, we may involuntarily play those who do not want any goals. Therefore, as in any political activity, we must combine the final conditions of what we want to achieve with the instrumental conditions of what we need to do to achieve what we want. With regard to the first issue of the honourable Member, which is very important, as indeed all that the honourable Member usually places, I would like to say that in the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union, where we have, among other things, the presidency of the Council of Ministers of Internal Administration, what we are doing, what Minister Eduardo Cabrita has done since the first hour, is not afraid to put the most difficult file of this Presidency, which the German Presidency has always surrounded without even undermining priority 1 of our Presidency. I am talking about the new pact for migration and asylum in its three dimensions: the dimension of the so-called balance between responsibility and solidarity in the reception of migrants and in the treatment of asylum seekers; the external dimension, which I have already referred to in my previous reply; and the dimension relating to border management, which must, at the same time, be driven by a security concern, but also by a humanist concern. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u149	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I congratulate the Minister and the Members. State Secretarys and the four questions I would like to put to the Minister in the first instance, I will take up the topic of vaccines. Mr President, a few weeks ago he was taxing that Portugal would not acquire vaccines outside the process of so-called European procurement, but a few weeks ago here in the Assembly of the Republic, he said that it would be complementary and successively acquired other vaccines to diversify supply to Portugal. Question : What are we staying in? Isn't there really going to be that diversification that is so lacking in our country? Where, then, is this statement that you have made recently? On the other hand, he also said that the European Medicines Agency is approving vaccines without political interference. This, by itself, is true, but there is more to tell and still yesterday we had this discussion with the Secretary of State. So the question is that the European Medicines Agency is not the only entity with this competence in Europe. Mr Minister, I ask you whether you have reason not to rely on Infarmed (National Medicines and Health Products Authority) who, in accordance with the law, has its own competences. What recognition regime will apply in Portugal to vaccines recognised in the WHO framework and to people vaccinated with them? What is planned in this respect? As regards the question of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, as Mr Minister knows, the CFP has come to stress the importance of this presidency as an opportunity to place on the agenda of the European Union the need to question the direction and policies that it imposes on the poor and which are at the root of the social inequalities and development asymmetries that run it. But on the contrary, what we have seen is a prospect of new stages and new clothes for the same options and the same policy: subservience in the face of great powers, submission and promotion of interests and the economic power of multinationals; deepening inequalities and exploitation. It is unacceptable that these are the essential marks of the following options. Even if presented in the midst of proclamations and declared intentions, even when speaking in the so-called pillar of social rights, even when preparing the so-called Social Summit, which is indispensable, it is clearly assumed that the leveling cannot be in the backwardness. by taking common references and by defining a fascia for the different countries, what is needed is to converge in social progress and not to lower the fascia, what is needed is to break with precariousness, exploitation, destruction of rights, break with these policies, eradicate them and not legalize them, regulate and normalize these plagues. The issue of so-called electronic platforms is a particularly clear and current example of this matter, but it is far from unique. that it is important to address the responsibility of the Portuguese Presidency, from the outset, not to contribute to an option which, in fact, is to level below. As far as the Portuguese Presidency is concerned, Mr Minister, we want to take up a matter which we have already put to the Government in the Commission. We are talking about the position and intervention of the Portuguese Presidency on the situation of Palestine and its people. Mr Minister, to advocate in the words a two-state solution and not even to recognize one of them, which is the State of Palestine, to maintain a deeply unequal relationship at the political, legal, institutional and even access to financial resources, to allow time to pass by witnessing the systematic violation of international law by the occupying Power and to announce in the Assembly of the Republic that, according to the outcome of this year's elections, we will be able to convene an association agreement and review some of these clauses, this, Minister, is not the role that Portugal and the Portuguese Presidency should have. This strategic alignment, which here has defended, with the United States of America, of course, in this field, objectively means complicity with a criminal occupation. It is that while the White House maintains the embassy in Jerusalem and all support for the occupying power, the same occupying power, Israel, maintains hundreds of Palestinian political prisoners. This week he sentenced the Palestinian parliament representative Khalida Jarrar to another two years in prison, and there is a silencer of the European Union and also of the Portuguese Government in this regard. That is why we must put the matter in this debate. Finally, Mr Minister, a question on the Stability Pact and the recent announcement by the European Commission to recommend the continuation of the suspension of these rules next year - returning them to the following year in 2023. Now, if we maintain the suspension of these rules is an option that no one is surprised by, already the prospect of the return at the end of the year of this brutal constraint for our recovery, development and economic sovereignty is an objective that we cannot but reject. Mr Minister, it is evidence that countries are not recovering and responding to the pandemic crisis at the same time and in the same way. in this sense, of course, it is important to take a position, either by the Portuguese State or by the Portuguese Presidency, which actually places the need not to have once again a share in our development and even in the investment that is required for us for the next few years and without which the funds of the basuca itself, which was no basuca, end up not being eligible or accessible. Therefore, this investment, this development and that sovereignty need, in fact, a frontal question concerning these rules either of the budgetary treaty or of the Stability Pact, and it is on this matter that we question it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u151	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u152	Madam President, Mr Bruno Dias, thank you very much for your questions. First of all, if I may, for the last question, tell you that the European Commission today proposed that the suspension of the clauses of the so-called Maastricht criteria, which existed in 2021, should be extended until 2022. It is an excellent decision, from our point of view, that is a timely decision, which gives us time to see how the European economy will evolve, to see how the health situation Europe is going to develop and to see how the public accounts in Europe will evolve. Of course we have common commitments, because we are part of a single monetary zone, we belong to the euro area, so there are certain rules of budgetary discipline that have to be common and it is also clear that rule 1 of budgetary policy is indeed the contradictory nature of this policy. Therefore, when we are living periods of crisis we cannot demand budgetary policy to be counter-cyclical and that is the capital error of austerity programmes. We will wait, we have time, give ourselves another absolutely essential moratorium which will allow us to prepare carefully and certainly with the collaboration of its bank the State budget for 2022 that the Portuguese economy needs. If I may, I now turn to the issue of vaccine authorisation, which I must always pay attention to: when we say that the European bodies decide does not mean that it is a reality to which we are outside. They are instances in which we participate ourselves. The fact that it is not the Infarmed, the Spanish « Infarmed », the Luxembourg « Infarmed », the Italian « Infarmed », the Lithuanian « Infarmed », the Greek « Infarmed » and the Czech « Infarmed », which one by one, investigate the technical quality of the vaccines, make the tests indispensable and declare their authorization or not, gives a economies of scale, a gain of time, a gain of brutal efficacy. That is why the European Medicines Agency does so, but with our participation, with our control, with our commitment, as a speaker of the Brazilian variant would say, not on our backs, against us or against our interests. Therefore, make sure that the only criteria that apply to the weighting of the European Medicines Agency would be the only criteria that would apply if the weighting was made by the Portuguese Infarmed, but with losses of efficiency, time, economy and costs that seem obvious to me. In the formulation of your first question, it seemed to me in the answers. We've known each other for a long time and there was a word game that's not your feature, it's more my feature. Obviously, when Mr. João Oliveira asked why we did not buy vaccines — see the effort I make during this whole session, not to say « vaccines», as on my land.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u153	But you can say!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u154	I'm fit! When Mr. João Oliveira asked, recently, why Portugal is not buying other « vaccines», of course the assumption of the question is why they are not buying now. When the European acquisition process is completed, when the 38 million doses Portugal has the right to reach Portugal, if another effort is needed, because there are variants which have meanwhile developed because there is a need — I do not know! — to make the vaccination process a regular procedure, the question will be asked. So I am right when I say that there is no impediment to the successive use of other processes which are Europeans again — I hope, that I am a Europeanist — but, of course, when you are Members. Members ask why we are not buying new vaccines, although they do not say the « now», it is only possible to understand that it is from now on. So let's go to the question of Palestine. Mr Deputy, as you know, the European Union's foreign policy is assumed by the High Representative under our mandate. at this time, we are at a time when there is a positive element, which is the change of the American Administration and its policy in relation to Palestine and Israel, but there is also a moment of some expectation, given that there is an electoral process in Israel, with elections in late March, and a electoral process in Palestine, with successive elections, I believe that first, presidential and then legislative elections, in spring and summer. Therefore, if we want to be reasonable and effective in foreign policy, we must take this into account. Our line of conduct is always the same: it is the defense that there is nothing better to defend the interests of Israel and the interests of Palestine than two States living peacefully side by side.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u155	Is that where you're from? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u156	It is therefore necessary for all of us to be clear to admit Israel's right to exist as an independent State and to admit the right of Palestine to have an independent State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u157	Is that where you're from? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u158	And these two processes are parallel.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u159	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u160	The 'going from there' is that I accompany the honourable Member when he criticizes the colonization policies of the State of Israel, but at the same time I question criticizing the launch of rockets on the Israeli civilian population.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u162	And I would like you to accompany me in that criticism. On the day that we are all clear, we will have made much progress in the Middle East peace process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u163	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to make your requests for clarification, Mr João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u164	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Mr Minister, it has been a while, but in the first round, my colleague Telmo Correia asked the Minister about a number of matters and Mr Minister answered almost all the questions, except one, which I remember now, in order to be able to answer, and which has to do with the question of the police. For the information we have, the Government has maintained a dialogue to find a solution—I think it is, even Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days that have this responsibility—but what we wanted to know, until, obviously, time passes and in a matter like this is very relevant, that is what can indeed be expected from this process. On the questions of the second round, more focused on European affairs, he chaired the informal meeting of ministers responsible for trade — indeed, he had announced this in the Commission — where the European Union's trade policy was discussed and we have read three essential purposes: openness, sustainability and assertiveness. What we want to know is how this happens in some specific cases. The first specific case, the Mercosur case. It is very important for a country such as Portugal, which has strong trade relations with Mercosur member countries, to have an agreement allowing many Portuguese companies to avoid both customs barriers and bureaucratic barriers so that they can effectively benefit from the agreement that the European Union can establish with Mercosur. Then, the case of the agreement with China, which we had already discussed in the Commission, and the importance of an agreement in the transatlantic relationship, and in a transatlantic policy with regard to China, and not the European Union to impermiss a common and articulated policy at the level of the United States and the European Union, for which the United States of America has already shown itself to be available. Finally, in the case of the direct relationship with the United States and the issue of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, we therefore realized that there was no direct approach to this subject at this meeting. Now that the U.S. Administration has changed, is there a possibility that we can discuss a possible agreement again, which, in terms of which it was being discussed, when it ceased to be, also had very positive aspects for Portuguese companies? So what we want to ask is how this review of trade policy takes place, essentially in these three points that have a direct bearing on Portuguese interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u165	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u166	Mr President, honourable Member : In relation to the first issue, concerning the police, this is, as you know, a process involving various departments of the government. With regard to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our responsibility was with the archive and legal treatment of the thousands of processes entrusted to the guard of the Camões Institute and this process takes place. Then there is an equally important financial dimension. With regard to the practical aspects of Mercosur, it is very simple: as a Presidency, I am forced to see that at the moment there are no conditions for the majority necessary for the adoption of an agreement either within the Council or within the European Parliament. As the agreement concluded is, from my point of view, a good agreement, either at the economic level or, above all, at the geopolitical level, it is very important to create conditions for this impasse to be overcome. The conditions we need to go through the creation of an additional instrument — we call it an instrument, because legal services have not yet reached the definition of their legal nature, i.e. if it is a protocol, whether it is an additional one or an annex — to clarify the links between the two parties, each other, and also the financial conditions to support one of the parties in meeting those conditions in three essential areas. One of these matters, which I think is absolutely obvious, concerns matters related to food security. Another concerns matters related to compliance with the Paris Agreement. Yesterday, I had the opportunity to recall in Brussels that one of the 31 countries that make up the European Union and Mercosur expressed the desire to disengage themselves from the Climate Agreement. That country was not a member of Mercosur but a member of the European Union. The third, perhaps the most difficult, issue concerns the area of biodiversity and, in particular, the fight against deforestation. There is, on the Mercosur side, availability to work on this instrument. We ourselves are discussing this and my hope is that during the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union we can move forward with this clarification. With regard to the agreement with China, I repeat: the agreement in principle was reached in the last days of the German Presidency, but it was not a priority for the Portuguese Presidency programme. Our priority is even the relaunch of economic relations with India. I have already explained that, among other reasons, there is a reason for geopolitical balance that is very important to us and, I repeat, we have all the time in the world to also clarify clearly what is in the principle agreement and the conformity of what is there with European standards. With regard to the TTIP, we live at a time that is, let us say, promising, but it is still a moment, if I allow myself the auto metaphor, in which the other party just put the « first change», because the new US Secretary of Commerce was confirmed by the Senate yesterday. So we need to have time. Then we put the « second», we go to « third», and we go out there. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u167	You have the floor again to put your questions to Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u168	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Mr Minister, on this matter, of course, it takes time, but it is appropriate for us to know what we want from the point of view of this relationship with the United States in terms of trade. on the side of the United States there may still be some time left, but on our side there should be a confirmation, or not, of the one who was the point, when this matter is no longer on the agenda. One question, in another area, has to do with agriculture. Agri Europe, a respected publication in Brussels on agricultural matters related to European policy, has recently denounced something which is, for us, very worrying, the absence of the Portuguese Minister of Agriculture in the conduct of the CAP negotiation process. This was denounced by this publication, supported by various sources, both from the Commission and from the Council itself, in which several Member States said they were concerned that the Portuguese Minister was not conducting this negotiation and was leaving this negotiation in the hands of the bureaucrats. What I would like to ask you, Minister, is whether it is a priority, or not, for the Portuguese Presidency and, in particular, for the Portuguese Presidency in the field of agriculture, to be able to take advantage of this Presidency to lead the negotiation of the CAP, which, as we know, is an essential European policy for Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u169	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u170	Madam President, honourable Member : I shall then be more precise in terms of trade relations with the United States. First of all, we have to understand what it means, on the American side, this of the "buy american" and, therefore, whether there will be a line of continuity between the two administrations or whether there will be any opening.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u171	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u172	He knows better than the European Union that, from a European perspective, the United States is a very protective country. Now we have made concrete proposals. First of all, in what is called confidence-building measures in diplomacy, we have even eliminated retaliation measures, so sanctions, the escalation of tariffs that we have decided against us — the Americans against us — because of Airbus and — we are against the Americans — because of Boeing. Also some movement in order to clarify the conflict that exists about aluminum and steel would facilitate this climate of confidence creation. But let us have no doubt: there are divergent interests, and here and there contradictory, in trade matters between the United States and Europe. We can treat these differences as friends, and that is our purpose and also that of Biden Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u173	Mr. Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u174	Mr President, just to clarify, on the issue of the CAP, I do not know this magazine and, finally, the intrigue in the Brussels court is also great.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u175	It's not intrigue, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u176	But I think there's a great injustice, for two reasons. First of all, because Mr. Minister for Agriculture was contaminated by the COVID-19 and chaired, from his home, an informal meeting of the Ministers of Agriculture. Therefore, if there is anyone who cannot be accused of not fully assuming, sometimes under very difficult personal conditions, his responsibilities with the Presidency is my colleague Maria do Céu Antunes. Secondly, because our ambition, with the political leadership of the Minister for Agriculture, is precisely to conclude during our Presidency the three regulations, whose approval will mean a very important reform of the CAP. But you know, as well as I do, that there are technical issues that are prepared, there are questions that are prepared at diplomatic level and there are issues on which we enter that are of a political nature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u177	On behalf of the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u178	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs and other members of the Government, one of the subjects on which we would like to begin by questioning the Minister in some way here has been addressed today, although not in its full and dimension. I speak of what are crimes against humanity, which have been perpetrated not only in Mozambique but also in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in addition to recent episodes in Nigeria. This health crisis somehow brought a deafening silence around these types of crimes. The international community, I believe with more difficulty, has not been mobilized as usual to contribute to the restoration of peace in these countries and, less so, this context that we live has caused these very crimes to disappear. Unfortunately, this seems to be the case in Cape Delgado, Mozambique, where, for three years, terrorist forces have been planting fear and violence, which have resulted in thousands of barbaric deaths, various cases of torture, more than 300,000 displaced, as well as other kinds of abuses of individual freedoms and guarantees, namely forced marriages, rape and slavery of women and children. Mr. Minister, recently there was an episode in Nigeria in which more than 300 girls were kidnapped from school. Luckily, they've already been released. But these are cases that often happen and for which there has to be an answer and a mobilization. More recently, in the Virunga forest, located in the Democratic Republic of Congo and Rwanda, the recent death of an Italian ambassador exposed the gravity of what happened there: more than 15 000 terrorist armed militias attacked and looted the villages of the region, kidnapped NGO activists (non-governmental organizations) and tourists to ask for rescues and, more seriously, again, kidnapped children, raped women, subjecting entire villages to devastation and violence, as well as slavery. They even put fists in the hands of the boys to torture the prisoners and thus be educated in terror. There are also reports that, in Virunga, these groups killed elephants, to place their ivory on the black market, and gorillas, to sell their meat, which is also contrary to treaties on the protection of wild species. However, despite these acts of terror that have been perpetrated in mass and that constitute crimes against humanity—and here we should not be afraid of words—the response of the international community has been silence. Therefore, Mr Minister, as far as Mozambique is concerned, this Parliament, on a proposal from the NAP, has already urged the Government to act and has made a recent recommendation. We know that one of the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union is precisely Africa. That is why, Minister, we would like to ask you whether Virunga and Cabo Delgado are also on your list of priorities. What measures will Portugal defend, precisely in these two cases, the promotion of a culture of humanitarian support in these two regions?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u179	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u180	Madam President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I imagine you have saved time for a next question, so I will now be more synthetic than I would like. You have Mrs. Deputy all the right to identify problems. In fact, I could give you other examples. I am not too sectarian in using concepts that are well rooted in international law and even in the moral consciousness of humanity in too broad a way, but there is a very important point, which is this: in many regions of the world today, we have attacks of terrorist networks that, in fact, usually work in conjunction with networks of the most diverse traffickings — people, drugs, precious materials, minerals, piracy — and which are the seeds of terror, in the technical and own sense of the word, i.e., attack mainly civil populations and preferably women and children and do not respect any law of war in their action. And we have to answer, but we cannot do so only in a security dimension. My American colleague has just made a speech in exactly the same direction, saying that it is not only the military intervention that is necessary to stabilize regions. The European Union, in my opinion, in this as in several other areas, goes quite ahead, always making it difficult to say things to people with such difficult words that sometimes our citizens cannot understand what we want to say. It is the case, for example, of the triple nexus, of which we speak in our language, but who who hears thinks: "What are these talking about? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We are talking about a very important thing, which is the need to act, at the same time, in three dimensions: in a dimension of humanitarian action, which is the independent, impartial, neutral conflict policy, whether the International Red Cross, the Red Crescent, the European Union as such, of the United Nations, etc. ; in a dimension of development support, development projects, Community intervention, work with the communities, bet on strengthening the economic and social fabric, local use of resources, training, etc. ; and in a security dimension, which is often also necessary, until development support action is possible. And when we say « triple nexus», « nexus» is because there is a connection between the three areas and « triple» because there are three. But that's exactly what the honourable Member was saying, and you're absolutely right about what she said. So let's go to the difficult question that the honourable Member has kept to the end. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u181	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u182	Mr President, Minister, it is a very difficult question because economic recovery cannot effectively leave environmental commitments behind. in this sense, I would like to talk to you about the Energy Charter Treaty, which has a set of provisions that allow foreign investors in the energy sector to directly process the signatory States in stealth international courts composed of private arbitrators. This will allow investors to claim exorbitant amounts as compensation for government initiatives aimed at reducing, for example, the use of fossil fuels and even in what could be the decarbonisation of economies. This means that when Portugal, for example, decides to implement the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality or adopt a climate law, it can be seen by the arms with what may be the claim of millionaire compensation by the major polluters. Therefore, Minister Santos Silva, what we would like to know is when Portugal goes to disengage from this Treaty, which in no way benefits the public interest and which can stop the decarbonization of the economy, which is so necessary for our country and for the planet itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u183	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u184	I shall conclude, Madam President. It is that, in fact, what we cannot leave behind is the climate crisis, which continues as the background to this whole crisis that we are living in.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u185	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u186	Madam President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, after all, the question was not difficult. First of all, the honourable Member has certainly looked at the Recovery and Resilience Plan which is under public discussion and knows that we have exceeded the target of 37% allocated to the green transition by 10 percentage points. In our Plan, the expenditure allocated to the green transition represents almost half of its constant investments. Secondly, I am a poor sociologist, I have never attended any law school, but I will hear some things, and one of the things I usually hear from my law colleagues is that successive law repeals previous laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u187	Back to law!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u188	Later law. You're right, sir. So let us work on our European climate law and, if I may allow a small message to the NAP, we do not disturb approval with maximalistic logics, which will only delay, to remain strong in relation to all those who want to prevent us from making the planet cleaner, bluer and more habitable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u189	On behalf of the ENP Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u190	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Permanent Council of the Council of the Portuguese Communities sent to the Government last month a set of recommendations, which we highlight two. The first relates to the need for a nominal survey of the activities of social communication in Portuguese communities abroad, in order to remain in the possession of accurate information of those and what are these Portuguese roots in host countries. The second recommendation concerns the need to integrate, on a mandatory basis, into the institutional advertising of the State, the Portuguese-based social communication bodies in the communities. Therefore, Minister, these measures would be a way of getting to know the reality of social communication in the communities and, above all, would represent new opportunities for the Portuguese State to fulfil its duty to disseminate within the communities the institutional information to which Portuguese living abroad also have a right, and full right. Therefore, Minister, it would be important for you to tell us how the Government views these recommendations from the Council of the Portuguese Communities ( CCP ), whether they are to take it seriously or not. Mr Minister, I would also like to speak to you about the Energy Charter Treaty ( TEC ). This Treaty, as Mr President will certainly recognize, is completely obsolete and there is no evidence that it facilitates investment or reduces the cost of energy, even with interests contrary to those of the general public. In its present form, the main effect of this Treaty is to protect the fossil fuel industries—and their greenhouse gas emissions—and to threaten the public finances of the signatory States. This is no longer to mention the controversial ISDS ( Investor-State Dispute Settlement ) arbitration system, in which states have just given up their own justice systems to entrust the disputes to this arbitration that multinationals so much appreciate. But it is also a mechanism that represents an attack on the sovereignty of States and even on the ability to freely define economic, social and environmental policies, as, moreover, we have been watching over time and in very timely cases. Furthermore, Mr Minister, this Treaty has many points that are directly in conflict with sustainable development, representing a huge risk to any government that is really committed to combating climate change. What the Greens consider is that Portugal should not compromise with an Energy Charter Treaty which is contrary to environmental concerns and commitments and also to the interests of the people and the country. We therefore believe that Portugal must defend a treaty aligned with the objectives of sustainable development. What I ask you, Minister, is whether we can count on the Government, in the context of the negotiations on the reformulation of this Treaty, to demand compliance with environmental commitments and sustainable development, to defend citizens' rights and to exclude such arbitration clauses. Can we count on the government for this purpose or not? And if this is not achieved, does the Government consider abandoning this Energy Charter Treaty?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u191	To reply, the Secretary of State of the Portuguese Communities has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u192	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, on the issue of the diaspora media bodies, this survey has already been made by the Secretary of State of the Communities when we decided to give extraordinary timely support to the diaspora social media bodies. at the same time, we have worked with a platform of diaspora media bodies, which is currently having a new dynamic and which has already submitted a candidacy for the annual contest of DGACCP ( Directorate-General for Consular Affairs and the Portuguese Communities ) precisely to support us in this work and in other measures that they consider important to support the diaspora media bodies. On the other hand, the gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party Paulo Pisco and Paulo Porto presented a proposal for amendment to the 2015 law, which is exactly the law of institutional advertising, where they will be included, by then having been forgotten their inclusion, the social media bodies of the diaspora, requiring 10 % of all institutional advertising campaigns made by the Portuguese Government, provided that more than €5,000 are allocated to the diaspora social communication bodies. This amendment to the law has already been discussed in the Committee on Culture and Communication and I believe that it will shortly rise to the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u193	You now have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u194	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, with regard to the Treaty on the Charter of Energy, the first thing that good governance requires is an in-depth knowledge of what this Treaty has and what are the obligations which the contracting party, in this case the Portuguese State, assumes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u196	Therefore, the Department of Legal Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing this analysis, which must then be confronted with the sectoral ministry, the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action. As it is essential for a European agreement to be successful, I do not know whether the question of amending the Treaty will be raised, whether it is a complaint, whether it is a withdrawal or another figure, and whether it is a multilateral treaty. What I meant is that we should not have any kind of illusion that what we do is essential to ensure the living conditions of the planet and, therefore, the survival of our species, of the so-called Homo sapiens sapiens, will hurt many interests, and these interests will use all weapons against us. I therefore repeat my call: we must be quick and strong in the adoption of legislative instruments, at European level, indispensable for us to overcome these interests, because they have some power, and we must always take this into account. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u197	You now have the floor to ask questions, Mr Ventura, from the point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u198	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I said recently that I could not reason on my terms. I know not, because in fact, Minister, I am not ashamed to say that if there are foreigners who commit acts of terrorism in the European Union, if they commit drug trafficking in the European Union and are expelled I do not sleep any worse because of that. Nor should the Minister sleep worse for defending the safety of European citizens. And one day, if God wills, it will be so: whoever commits crimes seen in European territory should be returned to their territory of origin. But since he so emphatically said that the new American President was a change, I ask him what he thinks of the bombing done to Syria last week by the Biden administration, which he had said would solve the problem diplomatically. It seems that your allies are not working very well on this matter. But let us talk about sanctions, Minister, because he said he was proud of a European Union which has no sanctions against the economy of a country, which has individualised sanctions. And, indeed, they are working well, as we have seen in the case of Ukraine, in which they have worked perfectly, as we have seen everywhere where the European Union goes, where they have worked perfectly, whether in the Middle East, or in Ukraine... The respect Russia has for us, with you in the leadership, is zero, as we saw in the visit of a European diplomat, a little while ago, in which we were humiliated! And the Minister said, "Let's be calm, let's keep our heads cold." We cannot be calm when we are humiliated in our dignity, we must have the ability and courage to respond! So, Minister, I ask you: is it under the Portuguese Presidency that for the first time we will be able to impose serious sanctions on those who are our enemies? I end with an issue raised by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, who said that the Portuguese Presidency would be the last opportunity to carry out a serious plan to combat immigration...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u199	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u200	I will finish, Madam President. As I said, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said that the Portuguese Presidency would be the last opportunity to carry out a serious plan to combat illegal immigration in the Mediterranean. There were more than 100,000 crossings in the last year and half a million asylum applications — half a million! There's no block that holds this number of requirements...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u201	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u202	I shall conclude, Madam President. There is no block to support this number of applications and this number of asylum applications. Is it with Portugal that we are finally going to fight this phenomenon?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u203	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u204	Mr President, Mr Ventura, I would like to draw attention to the fact that what you said recently was not precisely proposing that they should be deported criminals but that they should be used to expel foreigners as a means of retaliation. In fact, I must say that my Christian training is wrong with the fact that you call on God at the same time as you say this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u205	Oh! For God's sake!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u206	Mr President, there was no US bombing in Syria, there was an American military intervention on militia installations in a territory that is Syrian, which, in fact, stands out in the difference that in international law has long been consolidated, between preventive actions, which are admissible, and « pre-emptive» actions, which are condemned. It is impossible for High Commissioner Filippo Grandi to have made the claim. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees is at the forefront of his terms of reference, Mr. As you didn't ask any questions, I don't have any answers either. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u207	There's no answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u208	You have the floor to ask questions, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Minister, I do not know whether you have noticed, but in the first round, there was something funny here, which was, in reply to a honourable Member, the Minister had said — I quote, but I think I do not quote correctly: ‘This is not Realpolitik, it is realism in foreign policy’, doing that fun thing that is to make the translation of the German word into a good Portuguese translation’ — I give you, in fact, the congratulations, because it was quick to make an exact translation of Realpolitik. This would be fun, if it wasn't a bit tragic, because Realpolitik seems to be justified whenever there is a compatriot community somewhere and that this justifies the fears or the rotors we have about these regimes, no matter how many violators they are of certain rights. But even compatriot communities do not justify everything, Minister. I give you this example: the United Kingdom has a community of compatriots of itss in Hong Kong greater than ours in China and that is not what prevented them from having much more assertive and harsher positions in relation to the Chinese regime when the events we all know took place there. on the other hand, Germany, which does not have virtually any compatriot community in China, has immense sense of what it does and does not do in the defence of human rights in China. A friend of mine from Germany, who has grace — one of those exceptions — used to say, "This is Volkswagen's foreign policy". You have your grace, but you also have your tragedy here. So if this is not Realpolitik we are doing in the European Union — and now with Portugal in the Presidency I am more concerned — I do not really know what Realpolitik is. And, moreover, history teaches us that from Realpolitik in Realpolitik we will perhaps defend some interests, but we will certainly hypothesize values and principles, such as we talked about in the first round, which concerns me. History teaches us that, and the Minister knows that well.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u210	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u211	That is why I am going back to the issue of human rights because I think it was at the last or the penultimate meeting of the Council of Foreign Affairs of the European Union, which I took half a dozen subjects, all of which are relevant to human rights or political rights: the detention of Alexei Navalny ; Hong Kong ; Turkey ; Venezuela ; Mozambique. All these issues, relating to violations of human rights and political rights, seem to give reason to the Freedom House report, which since 2006 has shown liberal democracy and the freedoms in regression around the world, which is, as you say, human rights and political rights in return around the world for 14 or 15 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u212	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u213	I shall conclude, Madam President, by asking this question: what will the European Union and the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union finally do to prevent us from agreeing one day with Realpolitik from breaking our values?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u214	Mr Foreign Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u215	Madam President, thank you very much for the opportunity to quote Bismarck. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, I would also like to thank you for this opportunity. Realpolitik is a current, it is a school, in foreign policy, that is associated with the guardian figure of Bismarck, so that there were five powers that counted — Prussia, Austria, Russia, France and England, and that everything is summed up, for the interests of Prussia, not letting there be three against two constitutions where they were on both sides rather than being on the side of the three. That's what Realpolitik is. Realism in foreign policy is different. Realism in foreign politics was Churchill's, when, unlike Chamberlain, who at that time was an idealist, he realized quite well that the beast — the beast! — that he faced was not comfortable, therefore, when he said, in full blitzkrieg: «We do not surrender, and the Germans will surrender, because we do not accept to negotiate». That is realism in foreign policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u216	Good example!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u217	And it is also on behalf of this realism in foreign policy that the European Union gave itself last December with the favourable vote of Portugal, a regime itself for gross violations of human rights, that the application now, in the case of Myanmar and in the case of Russia, is the first example of realisation. There too is realism in foreign policy. But it is also realism in foreign policy that we realize the following: we are not now, unlike other Member States, with interests in territories belonging to the People's Republic of China. Portugal is not saying that citizens living in Macao who have Portuguese passports will have full Portuguese citizenship, because they always have. They always had, we don't make any difference between Portuguese overseas and Portuguese from Europe. That is also realism in foreign policy. As it is, finally, realism in foreign policy we realize that the dimension of human rights is an essential dimension, but that when we conduct processes of international isolation of States we must always ask ourselves whether these processes of international isolation of States are the ones most favourable to the preservation of a minimum area of affirmation of civil societies in these States. It's just that when Portugal lived in fascism, and Portugal was...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u218	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u219	I conclude, yes, Madam President. As he said, when Portugal lived in fascism and was, at the same time, a member of NATO, it allowed a set of Portuguese general officers, starting with Humberto Delgado, to have an experience with the American army, which consolidated their democratic convictions. If the United States, at that time, had reasoned as the honourable Member is now proposing, General Humberto Delgado would not have had that opportunity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u220	We have now reached the end of this debate on sectoral policy. I say goodbye to the Minister and to the Members. State Secretaries. We shall move on to the last item on the agenda, which consists of a vote on the Rules of Procedure. I wonder if all the parliamentary groups are ready to vote. [[Pause.]] So let's start with the votes. We begin by voting on draft resolution No 931/ XIV/2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently conclude the opening and evaluation process of applications, celebrate the contracts and proceed to payments in debt, regarding support for the recovery of damage caused in municipal infrastructures in the districts of Aveiro, Braga, Castelo Branco, Coimbra, Guarda, Leiria, Lisboa, Porto, Santarém, Viana do Castelo, Vila Real and Viseu by the storms Elsa and Fabien occurred in 2019. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 884 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Recommends that the Government create the necessary conditions for ratification of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 712 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Recommends the Government to strengthen its integrated strategy to combat food waste. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This initiative is down to 7. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 728 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government measures to reduce food waste and promote public health. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This project also drops to 7. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u221	Madam President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u222	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u223	Madam President, to suggest that we be able to vote together now, together, on all the requests for avocados contained in the vote script. I would also like to say that — I think that the CFP also — of the two minutes to submit each request, to the detriment of a two-minute debate per parliamentary group, as is the case with the practice, and for which we have already given the indication of entry to the Bureau, as is the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u224	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u225	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u226	Mr President, the vote script that I have does not contain the CDS requirement — I do not know if it has been distributed later — calls for a breakdown of the vote by points. And my request is that this request be considered.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u227	Mr, it will be considered in due course. Mrs. Members, let us then vote together on four requests from the CFP and BE, for the plenary of the vote on amendments and amendments to the final text, submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security, relating to Decree-Law No 8 - B / 2021 of 22 January................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. a ( BE) and 41 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and Decree-Law No 6 - E / 2021 of 15 January — Establish support mechanisms in the context of the state of emergency[ Parliamentary assessments No 40 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 42 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) ]. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] There is now a period of intervention. Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u228	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At a good time, the CFP presented Parliamentary assessments, allocated its debate and insisted on alerting the problems of many workers and many families, particularly with regard to telework and monitoring of children, but also in matters of social protection for those in situations of unemployment. at this time of debate, we also remember that, if the proposals presented by the CFP in 2020 on these matters had been adopted, there would not have been a single day in this same year when workers and families had faced the problems and difficulties related to telework, with the follow-up to children, but also with the risk of social protection of many beneficiaries of unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit. The CFP proposals aim to ensure the payment of the 100 % salary to all workers, including those who are in telework or are in a child-accompanied situation, without any obstacles or obstacles. at this time, only 100 % pay the single parent families or cases where parents can revere weekly to take care of their children. There are, however, many families for whom this alternation is not possible, and these children are denied their right to be accompanied by their parents, because they are left without a third of the salary to care for their children or because they stay working to receive the whole salary, not accompanying their children. To extend the support of parents to care for children until the age of 16, we remember, is a right of children, especially at a time when their routines, their dynamics and their realities are deeply altered and are also, in many situations, causing anxiety, anxiety and difficulties, demanding the follow-up and proximity of their parents. All workers whose unemployment benefit or social unemployment benefit ended in 2020 must be unequivocally assured who have access to extraordinary support.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u229	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u230	I will finish, Madam President. We are talking about guaranteeing the rights of children, guaranteeing the right of workers to the link between personal, family and professional life...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u231	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u232	... and ensure the strengthening of the social protection of workers in a situation of unemployment. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u233	For 2 minutes, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u234	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: The Government cannot continue to draw social support measures with rules that exclude people who need access to such support and then say that there is money left, as if the country was not afflicted. currently, there are tens of thousands of workers with wage cuts, tens of thousands of independent workers who do not access the support to stay at home with their children. The PS and PSD have joined, in the parliamentary assessment, in order to prevent what the Block has proposed, i.e. that workers receive the whole salary, within the limits defined when they are at home with their children, and that independent workers receive at least the national minimum wage and are entitled to this support as well. This is what we advocate today: a new opportunity to recognize these workers as a whole wage and also to recognize the rights of self-employed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u235	Mr Ofélia Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : From the experience accumulated this past year, it has been quite clear that telework and assistance to children is not conciliable. Those on telework cannot provide the necessary assistance to their children. Still, the Government, ignoring the difficulties faced by families in 2020, determined the closure of schools last January, and recovered the same regime as it did in 2020, which prevented access to exceptional family support for all those on telework. This is the Government's insensitivity to the problems of families which only spent one month after the closure of schools is that it tried to correct this injustice. It did not just because it recognized the difficulties of families but, yes, because it was made up by the initiatives of the PSD and other political parties which, in the meantime, were presented and could bring together a majority of parliament. And because we believe that the measures put forward by the Government are beyond the needs of families, the PSD has put forward a proposal that not only meets these needs, but also is a balanced and fair proposal for families and businesses, without the fundamentalist excesses that the extreme-left parties have already used to us. The PSD proposal allows single-parent families and all families with children under 12 years of age, as well as families with children or dependents with disabilities or chronic disease, regardless of age, to be able to access exceptional support to the family as an alternative to telework. The PSD therefore understands that the necessary social protection must be guaranteed to parents who have to be absent from work to provide the necessary assistance to their children, while schools and day care centres remain closed, this protection must be guaranteed not only to workers on behalf of others but also to self-employed workers. For this reason, the PSD welcomes the majority reached in parliamentary committee with a view to eliminating negative discrimination...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u237	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude. The time of each intervention is 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u238	With the tolerance of Mr. President, I just want to say, in conclusion, that the PSD welcomes the majority reached in Parliamentary committee...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u239	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u240	Let me finish, Madam President, to the extent that you have also granted tolerance to the Minister and, therefore, allow me to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u241	Mrs. Member, these are different things. The intervention time for this debate is 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u242	I thought the rights were the same,
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u243	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u244	...but soon. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u245	I now give the floor to Mrs Rita Borges Madeira from the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u246	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party will not follow the proposals here today, as it has already done in the vote on the Committee on Labour and Social Security. And it does not follow these proposals because it is against the protection of workers, the unemployed and the most needy, but precisely the contrary. The Government has already promoted amendments to support families: it has amended Decree-Law No 8 - B / 2021, with the publication of Decree-Law No 14 - B / 2021, extending extraordinary support to the family, not only increasing the range of its beneficiaries, but also extending the coverage amounts to benefit from this support to 100 % the single-parent families and the families in which both parents benefit from support weekly, alternately. We cannot allow legislative redundancy and support competition. The State budget for 2021, now in force, already includes several measures to support workers and unemployed people, such as extraordinary support for workers' income, which ensures the continuity of income to those who have lost them and do not meet the conditions for access to social benefits that protect them in the event of unemployment, such as the subsequent social unemployment allowance, the extension of the period for granting unemployment benefit and the increase of the minimum limit of unemployment benefit. The Socialist Party will always be on the side of the workers, and that there is never any doubt about this. We have tabled a proposal for an amendment to Decree-Law No 8 - B which was unanimously adopted in committee on the possibility of teaching staff, whose educational activity is carried out in real time and which allows on-line interaction, uses educational establishments, day care centres, family care centres or other dependents for the care of children or other dependents, like what happens to the workers considered essential. We are here from the beginning to support all Portuguese in this battle against the pandemic and against all that it has removed us, but we will also be here tomorrow, alongside the same Portuguese, to work on the economic recovery and recovery of lost income and jobs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u247	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, from the PAN Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u248	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, the right of all and all workers cannot be left behind, in particular not only in bureaucratic meshes, as we have so far been finding that it has happened throughout this pandemic, as well as in the worsening of many inequalities from the social point of view. Having children in charge and also having to take office cannot mean loss of income and cannot mean an absolutely unacceptable burden. That is why the NAP stands next to the strengthening of these rights. We will, of course, follow the proposals that have been put forward and enable the joint text which, in committee, has consensualized. However, we regret that this House does not go any further and does not effectively protect 100 % of what is the remuneration due to those who are at home caring for their children, regardless of the other parent being in telework, because these two tasks cannot be confused that are completely different. In fact, there has been an added difficulty for women—and for which non-governmental organizations have come to warn successively—who have seen a reversal of their rights in the area of equality, or even for single-parent families, which cannot reconcile both functions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, having support does not mean that there must be no equality between men and women. In fact, we have lost the opportunity in committee to find a more robust text, which in some way responds to the various concerns of this time and that it would be able to strengthen this protection. It would be essential that these support should cover all workers, including single-parent families, and therefore we deeply regret that this path has not been made. We will therefore follow up on the initiatives under discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u249	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u250	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since last year, when families have been confined and their children have also remained in this situation, the CDS has warned of what they soon realized, which is the absolute incompatibility between telework and family support. In other words, those who are working at home are not at home, nor can they be at home at the same time accompanying their children, who have school duties and a need for follow-up that does not allow this reconciliation. Unfortunately, for almost a year, the government has insisted on something that is impractical, leading many families to the limit. We are not just talking — and here we are going to vote on some proposals that have broadened this hypothesis — from children up to 12 years old and children of school age. Many families have younger children who are not yet of school age but who need care when their parents are at home, as there are many families who also have children older than 12 years of age and who, having distance classes, need follow-up. And so many families have experienced a real torment for not being able to reconcile these two realities. We welcome, of course, the adoption of the CDS proposal so that it is not necessary for any parent to be in telework, or rather, if one parent is in telework, the other can provide support to the family. This proposal of the CDS was approved and will become law, as the proposal of the CDS was approved so that independent workers would not be discriminated against. We'd like to have gone further. We would have liked to have also been approved of our proposal so that the payment to these people in support of the family would be made at 100 %. There are proposals which will now be voted on and which allow this possibility, and we will of course vote in favour of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u251	Mr. José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u252	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The approval in committee of the change in the reference value of support for the reduction of activity of independent workers, which the Left Block has presented, is very important, because it will mean, for some workers, the difference between receiving €219 or €657, which is what makes this proposal of the Left Block. What is no longer understood is how the PS and PSD can explain that they have plummeted and prepare themselves for the 100 % payment to those who are at home taking care of their children, but also the extension of the allowances, unemployment benefits in 2021, the facilitation of access to protection in unemployment, by reducing the guarantee deadlines, which was in force in 2020, and the government did not agree to extend it to 2021, and which is going to be plunged today by PS and PSD. How is it possible that PS and PSD have joined together to prevent support for long-term unemployed people from reaching and changing the rule, forcing them to be six months without any support to have access to support for long-term unemployed people? Oh, my God! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just an insensibility, it is a very strange decision, given that these support existed in 2020 and that the honourable Members. Members not only rejected them in the State budget for 2021 and also in committee, but here today they have the opportunity to correct what they have done, which was to reject that they were approved for 2021. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u253	Mrs. Members, let us then proceed to the vote, in the speciality, of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security, on Decree-Law No 8 - B / 2021 of 22 January, which establishes a set of support measures in the context of the suspension of educational and non-personal activities[ Parliamentary assessments No 39 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and 41 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), contained in Supplementary Script I. We begin by voting on the proposal submitted by the CFP to replace Article 2 ( 1 ). that of that decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — They are considered justified, without loss of rights, including compensation, the following shortcomings: (a) those motivated by unadhesible assistance to a child or other dependent under 16 years of age, or, regardless of age, disability or chronic illness, resulting from the suspension of educational and non-presentative activities in school or social equipment supporting first childhood or disability, and while they last, including during periods of formal interruption; (b) those motivated by assistance to a spouse or person who lives in a de facto union or common economy with the worker, parent or close to the right line ascending, parent or close to the third degree of the collateral line, which is in charge of the worker and who frequent social equipment whose activity is suspended by the determination of the health authority, within the scope of the exercise of their competence, or by the Government.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u254	The vote on the proposal by the CFP to amend the Article 3 ( 1 )promise shall follow. the same decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — In the situations referred to in paragraph 1 of the preceding article, the worker on behalf of others, the independent worker and the worker of the convergent social protection scheme, including those under telework, shall be entitled, respectively, to the exceptional support to the family provided for in Articles 23 to 25 of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March, in its current wording, with the necessary adaptations and in the amount corresponding to 100% of the reference remuneration, and shall be considered for the purposes of calculating:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u255	Let us now vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add a new paragraph 3 to Article 3. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — The provisions of this Article shall apply to the spouse, a person living in a de facto union or common economy with a worker considered essential in accordance with Article 10 of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March in his current wording, and who does not access the reception mechanism provided for in Ordinance No 25-A/2021 of 29 January.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u256	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, to add Article 3. the -A to the same decree, for which the CDS-PP has requested the separate vote of paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u257	For the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u258	We shall therefore vote on Article 3 ( 1 ). o -A, contained in the proposal to add the Left Block. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — In the situations referred to in the preceding article, the worker on behalf of others is entitled to receive exceptional monthly or proportional support, corresponding to all of his basic remuneration, paid in equal parts by the employer and social security.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u259	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 3 ( 2 ) to ( 9 ). o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] [[They were as follows: 2 — The support referred to in the previous number has at least a guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration (RMMG) and by a maximum limit of three MRMGs. 3 — Support referred to in this Article shall be automatically transferred after the employer has been required, provided that there are no other forms of performance of the activity, in particular by telework, without prejudice to Article 3D. 4 — The share of social security shall be handed over to the employer who shall pay the full amount of support to the worker. 5 — Except as provided for in paragraph 7, support shall cover the contribution of the worker and 50 % of the social contribution of the employer, the same shall be the subject of a declaration of autonomous remuneration. 6 — The support provided for in this Article and in the following Article cannot be perceived simultaneously by both parents and only once, irrespective of the number of children or dependents in charge. 7 — Where the employer reviews public nature, with the exception of the business sector of the State, the support provided for in this Article shall be provided in full by it. 8 — For domestic workers, the amount of support corresponds to the monthly average of remuneration recorded in the last quarter of 2020, with the limits provided for in paragraph 2, being paid half for social security, while employers maintain the obligation to: (a) pay half of the remuneration; (b) declare working time and normally declared remuneration for the worker, regardless of the partial suspension of their effective payment; and (c) pay the corresponding contributions and contributions. 9 — The support provided for in this Article shall not be combined with the support provided for in Decree-Law No 10-G/2020 of 26 March.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u260	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, to add Article 3. o-B to Decree-Law No 8 - B / 2021, of January 22. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 3b Exceptional support to the family for self-employed persons 1 — In situations similar to Article 2(1)(a), where the self-employed person subject to the fulfilment of the contribution obligation in at least 3 consecutive months of at least 12 months cannot continue his activity, is entitled to monthly or proportional exceptional support. 2 — The value of the support corresponds to the monthly contribution base for the average of 2019. 3 — The support referred to in the above figures has at least a guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration (RMMG) and by a maximum limit of three MRMGs, and in any case may not exceed the amount of remuneration recorded as a basis of contribution incidence. 4 — Support shall be the subject of a quarterly statement of income, subject to the corresponding social contribution. 5 — The support referred to in this Article shall be granted automatically after the request of the selfemployed person, provided that there are no other forms of performance of the activity, in particular by telework. 6 — The support provided for in this Article and in the preceding Article cannot be perceived simultaneously by both parents and is only once, irrespective of the number of children or dependents in charge. 7 — The support provided for in this Article shall not be combined with the support provided for in Decree-Law No 10-G/2020 of 26 March.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u261	Let us now vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for the addition of Article 4. o-C to the same decree-law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] [[Article 4c Amendment to Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March Article 21 of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March in its current wording is replaced by the following: ‘Article 21 Child and Child Assistance Grants 1 — (...). 2 — In the cases referred to in the previous paragraph, a subsidy of 100% of the reference remuneration shall be granted. 3 — (Previous paragraph 2). 4 — (Previous paragraph 3). 5 — (Previous paragraph 4). 6 — The allocation of the sickness benefit as provided for in paragraph 2 shall not exempt the full fulfilment of the contribution obligations, to affect the entire reference remuneration. 7 — The arrangements laid down in this Article shall apply to self-employed persons. 8 — The provisions of this Article shall apply, with the necessary adaptations, to trainee workers under the measure of professional internships, provided for and regulated in Ordinance No 131/2017 of 7 April 2017 and in Ordinance No 206/20 of 27 August 2020 in its current wording. 9 — The provisions of this Article shall apply to a spouse, a person living in a de facto union or common economy with a worker considered essential in accordance with Article 10 of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March in his current wording, and who does not accede to the reception mechanism provided for in Ordinance No 25-A/2021 of 29 January.’;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u262	Mrs. Members, we are now returning to the Rules of Procedure for the vote to proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security, on Decree-Law No 8 - B / 2021 of 22 January, which establishes a set of support measures within the framework of the suspension of present non-formal educational activities[ Parliamentary appraisals No 39 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and 41 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which we just voted in the specialty. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and IL abstentions.]] Mrs. Members of the Committee on Labour and Social Security, concerning Decree-Law No 6 - E / 2021 of 15 January, which establishes support mechanisms in the context of the state of emergency[ Parliamentary assessments No 40 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 42 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) ]. We then moved on to Supplementary II, and we started by voting on the proposal submitted by the CFP for the addition of Article 3. o -A to Decree-Law No 6 - E / 2021 of 15 January. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS and PSD and votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: Article 3a Access to extraordinary worker income support Workers whose unemployment benefit or social unemployment benefit ceased during 2020 are entitled to extraordinary worker income support provided for in Article 156 of Law No 75-B/2020 of 31 December in accordance with paragraphs 5 and 6 of that Article.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u263	The vote was followed by the vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, adding Article 3. -A to the same decree-law.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u264	There is a request from the PSD for a separate vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u265	We don't have any demands. [[Pause.]] The Bureau has no request for a separate vote. Therefore, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, you have the floor to formulate the oral request.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u266	No, no, Madam President, I just want to say that the request, in fact, was handed over to all the benches and gave way. However, I inform you that what was requested by the PSD was to vote separately on paragraphs 1 and 2 and then on Article 3 (3) and (4). o -A, contained in the proposal to add the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u267	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote and ask the services that will then bring this request to the Bureau, which has not yet arrived. We shall then vote on Article 3 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ). o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstentions.]] [[They were as follows: Article 3a Reduction to half of the period of guarantee of unemployment benefit, termination allowance and period of absence for support to long-term unemployed 1 — Workers who have 180 working days on behalf of others, followed or interpolated, with the corresponding remuneration register, within 24 months prior to the date of unemployment, are entitled to unemployment benefit. 2 — Beneficiaries who have 180 days of self-employment economically dependent, with the corresponding payment of contributions, shall be entitled to the termination of the service contract within 24 months of the termination of the service contract.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u268	Let us now vote on Article 3 ( 3 ) and ( 4 ). o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] [[They were as follows: 3 — Access to support for long-term unemployed is possible within 90 days of the end of the period of the last social unemployment benefit. 4 — These rules apply exceptionally during the year 2021.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u269	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left of Article 3. o-B. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL and votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: Article 3b Automatic extension of unemployment benefits and cessation of activity Unemployment benefits, including social unemployment benefit, cessation of activity, cessation of professional activity and other social benefits whose period of granting or term of renewal has ended on 31 December, or at a later date, are automatically extended or renewed during the year of 2021.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u270	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, which is also an addition to Article 3. o-C. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] [[Article 3c Amendment of the condition of resources of extraordinary support for workers' income 1 — For the purposes of accessing and calculating the value of extraordinary support for workers' income in the year 2021, the monthly income per adult equivalent of the family aggregate is calculated with the following adaptations: (a) a capital of 1 for each item of the aggregate is defined; (c) the benefits intended to cover family expenses, including the maintenance of food due to a minor, are excluded from consideration of the income of the aggregate. 2 — For the purposes of the previous number, descendants who, although living in cohabitation, present a monthly average of work income equal to or greater than 1.15 IAS, measured on the basis of the incomes of the three months prior to the initial requirement, constitute an autonomous aggregate.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u271	Let us also vote on a proposal submitted by the Block on the Left to add Article 3. o-D. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] [[Article 3d Extension of the scope of the APOIAR + SIMPLES Programme are beneficiaries of the APOIAR Programme, approved in Annex to Ordinance No 271-A/2020, November 24, as amended by Ordinance No 15-B/2021, January 15, entrepreneurs on an individual name (ENI) without organised accounting, irrespective of having employees in charge.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u272	Before continuing, I wanted to say to Mrs Clara Marques Mendes that, recently, she was right, because at the moment, the PSD request has already reached the Bureau that had not arrived before. Mrs. Members, we will return to the Regimental Voting Screen to proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on Decree-Law No 6 - E / 2021 of 15 January establishing support mechanisms in the context of the state of emergency[ Parliamentary assessments No 40 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 42 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) ]. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 94 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Creates greater justice in the right to benefit from disability due to illness or occupational accident. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CH abstentions.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 197 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Renews the right of public servants to compensation for damages resulting from occupational accidents and diseases. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PEN, PEN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u273	Madam President, may I apologize for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u274	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u275	Madam President, I just wanted to clarify that I voted against Bill No. 197 / XIV / 1. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u276	So they voted against PSD, CDS-PP and IL.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u277	Madam President, may I apologize for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u278	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr. André Ventura?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u279	Madam President, it is only to inform us that the vote of the coming party has been in favour and we are going to deliver a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u280	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u281	Madam President, right now, if I may, I would also like to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u282	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u283	Mr President, I wanted to correct the meaning of the PS in the previous vote of Bill No 94 / XIV / 1. the, since the PS abstained but intended to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u284	So, Mr. Member, the bill is hereby approved, so we will repeat the general vote of Bill No 94 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Creates greater justice in the right to benefit from disability due to illness or occupational accident. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] Now, to clarify, we will also repeat the general vote on Bill No. 197 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Renews the right of public servants to compensation for damages resulting from occupational accidents and diseases. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PSD, CDS-PP and IL.]] In the meantime, Mr Ventura indicated that he would present a written declaration of vote on this vote. The general vote of Bill No. 200 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recomposes the possibility of accumulation of benefits due to permanent disability with the proportion of remuneration corresponding to the percentage of permanent reduction of the worker's overall earning capacity. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PSD, CDS-PP and IL.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote, in general, on the replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralisation and Local Power, relating to Bills Nos 94 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Creates greater justice in the right to benefit from disability due to illness or occupational accident, 197 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Restores the right of public servants to compensation for damages resulting from occupational accidents and diseases and 200 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recomposes the possibility of accumulation of benefits due to permanent disability with the proportion of remuneration corresponding to the percentage of permanent reduction of the worker's overall earning capacity. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PCP and the IL.]] We shall also vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the committee committee on the replacement text we have just voted on. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The following is the overall final vote of the same replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions of the PCP, the ENP and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u285	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u286	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u287	Madam President, I would like to announce that we will present a written statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u288	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u289	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u290	Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u291	Madam President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u292	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now vote, in a global final vote, on the final text presented by the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralization and Local Power, relating to Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2021 of 2 February, which establishes exceptional mechanisms for the management of health professionals for the conduct of care activities within the scope of the COVID-19 disease pandemic [ Parliamentary Assessment No 43 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) ]. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We have reached the end of our votes, but not the end of our agenda. The next plenary session will be held on 9 March, Tuesday, at 10 a.m. with the Solemn Posse Session of His Excellency the President of the Republic. The plenary will then meet again on 11 March at 3 p.m. on the first item on the agenda on the request for the renewal of the state of emergency. The second point will refer to the joint discussion of Petition No 40 / XIV / 1. a ( Movement for the Autonomy of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management ) — By the autonomy and maintenance of the headquarters of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management, as well as of the Resolution Projects Nos. 651 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By the autonomy of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management, 661 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By safeguarding the autonomy of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management, 662 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government find a solution for the Idanha-a-New Higher School of Management socially and territorially just for the council, 683 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote concerted efforts to find alternative solutions that simultaneously guarantee the financial sustainability of the Polytechnic Institute of Castelo Branco and its stay in the territory of Idanha-a-Nova, thus contributing to the territorial cohesion and development of this entire region of the country, 713 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Administrative, pedagogical and scientific autonomy of the Higher School of Management of Idanha-a-Nova, and 730 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote a solution that safeguards the educational project of the Higher School of Management of Idanha-a-Nova and the Polytechnic Institute of White Castle. At the third point, together, Petition No 32 / XIV / 1 will be assessed. a ( League of Friends of the Douro World Heritage ) — By the complete requalification and reopening of the Douro Line ( Ermesinde-Barca d’ Alva ) and subsequent connection to Salamanca as well as Resolution Projects Nos. 822 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By requalifying the whole Douro Line ( Ermesinde-Barca d’ Alva and subsequent connection to Salamanca ), 834 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Requalification and operation of the Douro Line ( Ermesinde-Barca d’ Alva ) and subsequent connection to Salamanca, 843 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the modernization and electrification of the Douro Line to Barca d’ Alva and the replacement of its connection with the Spanish railway network, 847 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By requalification and reopening of the Douro Line to Barca d’ Alva and restoration of international rail connection, and 986 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — In defense of the Douro Line and by the reaction of the crowds. At the fourth point we will proceed to the joint debate of Petition No 628 / XIII / 4. a ( Vítor Alexandre Lopes Pereira Vicente et al.) — They request measures against the databases of the Tax Authority, of the Bill No 655 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Alter procedures for the delivery of the SAF-T ( PT ) file on accounting ( First amendment to Decree-Law No 48 / 2020 of 3 August ) and 683/ XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Revocation of the big fiscal brother by repealing Decree-Law No 48 / 2020 of 3 August and Draft Resolution No 886 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government change the delivery procedures of the SAF-T ( PT ) accounting file. The fifth point concerns the vote on the Rules of Procedure, which will take place at the end of the debate. I now call on Ms. Secretary Ana Mesquita to give us the usual information.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u293	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to inform the House that Mrs Marta Freitas of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira, was present by video conference. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-03.u294	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The Bureau said goodbye to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, looking forward to a good rest of the day. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 37 minutes.]]
