ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let us begin our plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] of the agenda, as the first item, is the assessment of the draft resolution No 839 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — By complying with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 201 / 2019, in order to prepare a study on how the benefits of Law No 3 / 2009 of 13 January could be attributed to the former local recruiters without contributing career records. You have the floor to present this draft resolution and to intervene in the debate, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The recognition, defence and dignity of military and former military rights have always been in the political and legislative priorities of the CDS, particularly when it comes to ex-combatants. We are talking about Portuguese who, at the risk of their own lives, served the Fatherland, honored the flag and dignified the Nation, deserving, for this loan, all our consideration and all our respect. The action of the CDS in this area has been widely recognized, whether it is in government or when it is in opposition. It is never too much to remember the work and performance of an ex-President of the CDS, Paulo Portas, who was Minister of National Defence between 2002 and 2005. He never left the old fighters and very ennobled them, through concrete measures that he took and helped these same former combatants. For example, in the previous legislation, the CDS presented a bill that was approved and would result in the creation of the exceptional indexing regime for the social benefits of the disabled of the Armed Forces, which currently allows the reference of this support to be increased by 35 %. In the current legislature, the first initiative of the CDS that entered was the bill for the creation of the Statute of the Old Combatant, which was approved after decades of requests, discussion and studies. Recently, in the last State Budget, we were able to approve our proposal so that the counting of the assessment obtained by ex-military at the time of their performance in the Armed Forces would be considered after entering the Public Administration. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we represent the proposal for the preparation of a study to allocate the benefits to former local recruiters without contributing career records. This is doing justice. At the end of the past legislature, Parliament recommended that the Government should proceed to a study on how the benefits of the former local recruiters could be attributed without any career-contributory registers. This resolution originated from the initiative of the PSD, PS, CDS and PCP members of the Working Group — Deficiencies of the Armed Forces and Former Combatants. It is worth remembering in this same debate two Members who are no longer between us, Miranda Calha and Luís Pedro Pimentel, who have always been on the front line of the defense of the former combatants. It is also important for a question of justice to remind the Members of John Rebel and Jorge Machado, who also deserve a word of recognition. They are no longer in office in this Parliament, but they have played a very important role in defending the former combatants. On the other hand, as it is evident, even by a matter of parliamentary elegance, it is important to remember Mr Diogo Leon, who is here with us and who has signed this same draft resolution. I am sure it maintains the same position as 2019. This draft resolution we are presenting is prompted by the fact that, during the period of the wars in Africa, between 1961 and 1974, which involved particularly the territories of Angola, Mozambique and Guinea, has been significant the total number of effectives arising from the local recruitment of the three territories in war that served the Portuguese Armed Forces. In 2002, the law recognized former combatants who performed military service under special conditions of difficulty or danger between 1961 and 1975, the right to legal benefits based on the time of service provided, including former military personnel from local recruitment. Among the benefits, we can find the exemption from the payment of contributions, the special supplement of pension, the vital increase of pension and the special supplement of pension. In 2009, this diploma was regulated, but for a period of time, it was left out most of the former local recruiters.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u3	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, because it has already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u4	I will now finish, Mr President. These former soldiers, who at the time were full-fledged Portuguese but who are currently citizens living in other countries, fought in a war in defence of Portugal, therefore performed military service under special conditions of difficulty or danger. It is from public knowledge that these years have come to demands from these citizens to apply for these same benefits. It is important that — and I am going to finish now, Mr President — justice has been done all these years and the 2019 resolution has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u5	I have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr João Vasconcelos, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we know, during the colonial war in Africa, many people, especially young people, coming particularly from the territories of Angola, Mozambique and Guinea-Bissau, were recruited locally by the colonial-fascist regime for war. Others, quite rightly, fought arms in their hands against the oppressor, in the defense of their populations and territories. Former military personnel from local recruitment, considered at the time Portuguese citizens and then foreign citizens who have exercised military service under special conditions of difficulty or danger have sought access to the benefits of Law No 3 / 2009 which regulates Law No 9 / 2002, but have been prevented from accessing such benefits due to legal devices. The overwhelming majority of these former local recruits continue to lack access to certain benefits, such as the supplement and special pension supplement, the exemption from payment of contributions, the vital increase in pension and the effects of counting the service time allocated to the former national military. It is said, in favour of the truth, that many of these benefits attributed to former military personnel do not pass a « Franciscan misery», a sort of marriage to the poor, in order to try to silence the discontent of these people who served in the Portuguese Armed Forces. This is how the various governments have acted on the responsibility of PS, PSD and CDS. At the last legislative session, he finally advanced the Statute of the Old Combatant, which ended up improving some of these benefits. However, this was a very limited improvement. The Left Block Parliamentary Group, in its proposal for a Statute, presented a set of significant improvements, which were unfortunately plunged by the negative PS / PSD coalition. As if this were not enough, after about six months since the publication of the Statute, it seems very little has advanced. Nor did the former fighter's card even arrive at the recipient's home, which is very negative. After all, paralysis, desorption and the absence of effective measures in the social, health and military area are also noted in the government in the area of defense. In the last legislation, the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 201 / 2019 was approved, which recommended that the Government undertake a study on how ex-militaries from the local recruitment without career records could be attributed to the benefits considered in Law No 3 / 2009. But the government has done nothing. It has not yet led to a resolution by the Assembly of the Republic, as it has done with many resolutions adopted in this House. Unfortunately, this situation is not exclusive only of this government. The various governments of the PS, the PSD and the CDS have often done « market ears » to which it is approved in Parliament. in this case, it is only to carry out a study, with the creation, eventually, of a working group, to realize such desire. It's a surreal situation, which has no explanation. What the CDS brings is nothing new: it is a draft resolution for the Government to comply, after all, with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 201 / 2019 of 19 July, which the Parliamentary Left Block Group will support. It is essential that, although it is already too late, justice be done to these people, formerly holders of Portuguese citizenship and in the fullness of their rights as such. But if the government continues to take precedence over forgetting or delay in resolving this matter, in accordance with the law of life, it will no longer have anyone to do justice. Maybe that's what you're waiting for. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u7	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr Raul Castro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution that the CDS brings to our debate recommends to the Government the fulfilment of Resolution No 201 / 2019, adopted at the end of the previous Parliament, which then recommended to the Government to proceed to a study on how the benefits of Law No 3 / 2009 of 13 January could be attributed to the ex-military of the local recruitment without contributing career registers in the schemes provided for in paragraph 2 of that Law. It is essential to stress and clarify that this resolution, adopted in the past legislature, originated precisely in a joint draft resolution, as has already been mentioned, from the Socialist Party, PSD, CDS and PCP, which came to be unanimously approved and emerged from then the Working Group on Issues relating to the Deficiencies of the Armed Forces and Ancient Combatants, chaired by our illustrious and greeting Mr.Júlio Miranda Calha, who has always faced and fought both within the framework of the National Defence Commission, or in other forums, so that today we have had a Statute of the Old Combatant. However, no less important than discussing this draft resolution is also to remember that many progress has been made in the meantime and that, although 2020 has been a typical year due to the consequences of the pandemic, one of the most relevant events that this Parliament has known in the past year has undoubtedly been the adoption, in July, by broad consensus, of the Statute of the Old Combatant. This was a truly historic framework, which digns ex-combatants and recognises, in a legislative text, for the first time in our history, precisely the former combatants from the former colonies and local recruitment as ex-combatants of full right, in accordance with Article 2 ( d ). the Statute of the Former Combatant. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite this congratulation and the recognition of all the rights and benefits already achieved, we do not fail to recognize the fairness of the purpose of this initiative, as well as that of the one that has originated with it, which has already been mentioned here, and to agree with the need for the study suggested, bearing in mind that these are ex-Militaries who have fought integrated into the Portuguese Armed Forces and who have served under the national flag at this time, which is why the Statute of the Old Combatant recognizes them as such. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u9	Mrs Olga Silvestre of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party thanks, recognizes and enhances the work of the Armed Forces in the past, in the present and in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u12	in this time of fighting an invisible but deadly enemy, the Armed Forces are on the front line in support of the Portuguese, in the development of new technologies, in support of the National Health Service, in the disinfection of schools and homes, in the installation of campaign hospitals and reception centers throughout the country. They are in the front line, serving Portugal and Portuguese, risking their own lives. Today, we see an undeniable reality: the Armed Forces are the best equipped civil protection agent to combat these types of threats, risks and challenges, which require integrated responses from all state agents, without complex or prejudice. The Armed Forces are better prepared because they have the discipline, strategy, organization, capacity to adapt to demanding scenarios and multiple valences. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the management of a battle like this is in the DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) of the Armed Forces. We recall that the Armed Forces are also on the ground in the fight against fires, in addition to all other Portuguese support missions, over 365 days a year and 24 hours. Recognizing its importance, valuing its mission, thanking its efforts and dedication is not a favor, it is, rather, a patriotic obligation and to establish justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u14	We reiterate that, in the previous legislative session, a giant step has been taken with the approval of the Statute of the Old Combatant, for many decades long ambitions and one of the oldest aspirations of the military who have fought on behalf of Portugal since the Oversea War. The Social Democratic Party was an active part of its realization and approval and presented a set of innovative proposals, of which we highlight the fact that the military family is effectively recognized, with the creation of the status of the widows and widows of the former combatants and, no less important, with the consecration of the right of preference in the social housing for the former combatants, as well as their widows or widows, who are in a position of homeless, which assumes particular relevance in this time of crisis that afflicts us globally and that also affects us individually and collectively at various levels, it is only those who are protected from a constitutionally consecrated right, such as the right to housing. We believe that we contribute to making a difference in the lives of these people. Many will ask: “But is it enough? » The Social Democratic Party responds: the work does not end here, does not run out with the Statute, but it has certainly been a very important gain for all, it is still at this time. We can even say that the work has only started with the building of the Statute for these men and women who have given so much to our country without asking for anything in return. These two dimensions, which, for the PSD, are extremely important, are adequately contemplated: the military family and the former combatants in a homeless situation. But this is not the end, it is only the principle, because work continues and the PSD will continue to monitor its application and fight, as always, for supporting the most unprotected and the most disadvantaged. PSD is a party of personalist and humanist matrix and defends the values of freedom, equality and solidarity. This is your watermark, from which you do not deviate. Therefore, the PSD will not abandon anyone, leave no one behind and fight for no one to go through difficulties, because we are all called to help those who need it most at this time. In order to know the lines in which we sew, it will be important to carry out the desired study, and the need for its compliance in the draft resolution under discussion has been reiterated. We will therefore continue to monitor the implementation of the proposed study, as we have already done in the past, because it will be necessary to ascertain the real need and we will need to examine the problems in order to understand them and, with responsibility, to solve them. We are available to build together a fair, responsible and fair solution, because slowly it goes away. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u15	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we already have quorum for the purpose of voting. Mr Inês de Sousa Real, from the PAN, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : During the last legislative session, we had the opportunity to approve the status of the former fighter, a historic framework to dignify and value the service that the former military have provided to our country, in a very difficult context and that marked their lives, from the physical point of view, of mental health, of family ties and even — a context in which some of them often persist — of poverty or material deprivation. We must not forget the vulnerability that many of these people continue to be exposed and the different associations that have done tireless work to support these communities give us note of this, and some of these former soldiers are even in a homeless position. If before the health crisis of the COVID-19 this was in fact a problem that we had to solve and that we cannot expect the demographic renewal to end, with the COVID, it is even more necessary to give an answer to all these men who served our country. As regards the debate that brings us to the House today, we must not forget that, despite the steps we have taken, not only on the proposal of the NAP but also of other parties, for the creation of the Statute of the former Combatant, which has strongly strengthened its rights, we have not gone as far as we would like, and there is still a lot of matters to mitigate and resolve. We recall that, at the last legislative session, by means of a set of data which the Government has brought to us, in fact, it was possible to make this progress at the level of the Statute of the Former Combatant in a balanced way, without calling into question a responsible legislative process. However, as regards the one who is the object of this CDS initiative, in particular with regard to local recruitment without the registrations of the contribution career, a gap that persists and needs to be completed, we had already asked the Government for data so that we could understand the impact of this measure, which has not been sent to the Assembly of the Republic until today. In fact, I recall that in 2019 this House unanimously requested that these data be sent to it so that it could study and evaluate how we could attribute these benefits, which, however, did not happen. It is essential to bear in mind that we need to give this response to the ex-Militaries who were included in the local recruitment without the registration of contributions and who, of course, deserve measures that guarantee the recognition of the sacrifices imposed on them by the country. What we have here is, in fact, a case in which the law recognises the former combatants a number of benefits, but it leaves out these former local recruiters, as if they were former Second Military, because they made discounts in the countries which were Portuguese colonies or because they are registered in social security regimes in those countries. I finish as we began: these men served the country not because they wanted it but because they were recruited for it. It does not make sense that Portugal does not recognize the service they have provided to our country, it does not make sense that Portugal does not give them this fair recognition and therefore we will also follow the initiative that the CDS brings us today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u17	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, the position of the CFP with regard to this draft resolution of the CSD could only be favourable, since, indeed, what is proposed is that another initiative should be carried out in the same direction, already approved here. As has been said, the CFP also endorsed this initiative, which recommends that it be studied how to compensate the citizens who served in the Portuguese Armed Forces and were in the Colonial War, in the same way as a support situation is foreseen for the Portuguese military not originating in the local recruitment but who also served under the same conditions. Of course, this seems fair to us, from there that we have subscribed to the recommendation which was adopted here in the past Parliament, of course, reiterating the need for the studies necessary to achieve this objective to be effectively done, which, admittedly, has not yet happened. Therefore, it is evidence that the Government must try to comply with that resolution and now, too, with this one, which is the same, and we hope that we will not have to cyclically approve, in the Assembly of the Republic, resolutions that recommend that the Government comply with the recommendations that have been made to it. We have talked about support for the former combatants and progress made in this area. Well, it is important to say that, from our point of view, progress has been made, but very limited. We did not share the euphoria of Mrs Olga Silvestre, who recently considered that the Statute of the Old Combatant, recently approved, was a giant step. from our point of view, it was not a step, but not very significant. In fact, as we expressed in the vote statement we made at the time, it was a very limited step, which continues to frustrate just expectations that were created for the former combatants and that is beyond what was actually promised to them, when the legislation adopted in 2002, which provided for a set of pension increases for the former combatants, who were never met and whose reach was limited, from government to government. Therefore, it is exaggerated to say that it was a giant step, because it was a limited progress, but we do not, of course, refuse that it was a progress and that some measures were even adopted that included in the project with which the CFP contributed in this regard. A progress has been made in the State budget for 2021, we hope that we will definitely solve the problem of providing prostheses to the disabled of the Armed Forces, which was a problem that was posed every year, due to the delay of transfers from the Ministry of Finance to the IASFA (Instituto de Action Social des Forces Armadas ) and then, much later, from the IASFA to the Military Laboratory, which would have been delayed for months in the supply of these prostheses. We hope that this problem has been resolved with the State budget for 2021, but it has not yet been resolved, and it should have been solved, the problem of the military disabled who have graduated from positions which are not recognised for the purpose of allocating their pensions. We hope that this problem, sooner than later, can be effectively resolved, as the CFP proposed, when assessing the proposed State Budget Bill for 2021. Of course, we will vote in favour of this draft resolution and we will continue to be committed to ensuring that much of what is lacking in the right support of the former combatants is effectively realized, because, as Mr. João Vasconcelos recently recalled, time is urgent, as the laws of life do, unfortunately, many of the old fighters will cease to be among us, ending up without seeing their righteous problems effectively solved. Therefore, this commitment must continue, because it is effectively urgent.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u19	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Manuel Afonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over 1 million and 400 thousand Portuguese served in Africa between 1961 and 1975, fulfilling compulsory military service and serving the Portuguese State. I was one of those soldiers, too. As my colleague of the Socialist Party Raul Castro, my comrade in arms of these campaigns in Africa, has said, indeed, acknowledged the justice of the purpose of this initiative. Since 2020 that the Statute of the Former Combatant establishes that they are considered as former combatants for the purposes of that statute, and I quote « ex-military persons from the local recruitment which are covered by the provisions of the preceding paragraphs », thus benefiting from the rights specifically enshrined in the Statute. It should be noted, however, that the enjoyment of the economic and social rights systemised in Annex II to that law does not preclude the verification of the conditions specifically provided for in their respective legal diplomas. However, we cannot fail to recognize — and all the parliamentary groups present here know this — that this is a complex issue, from the outset, for example, because of the difficulty in making their military time count due to the absence of a large part of the processes in the Army's General Archive, precisely because these military personnel were recruited directly in the former colonies. Moreover, the vast majority since former combatants are today citizens of PALOP's sister countries ( African Countries of Portuguese Official Language ), so it is also necessary to have some diplomatic touch and sensitivity in this case. In addition to that, of course, it may be necessary to reflect on the amendment of the legislation establishing the financial benefits recognised by the former combatants, adapting it to these distinct and exceptional realities. In order to better conjugate and reflect on these difficulties and possible conditions, it is essential that this study be carried out. It is fair that this is the case and fair that this is the case. In any case, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this initiative so that, in the constructive spirit with which these issues have always been discussed, the best solution can be found for solving this problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u21	To close this debate, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we can retain from this debate is that there is a broad parliamentary consensus on the justice of this measure. Somehow, as has been said by several sides, this draft resolution is nothing more than a way of putting pressure on the government to carry out this study and justice. Taking into the last intervention of the Socialist Party, doing this study and this evaluation is not easy. But we have an obligation to do so, because these men defended the Portuguese flag, defended Portugal, defended our Armed Forces. We're talking about soldiers who fought between 61 and 74. Therefore, this justice must be done quickly. Otherwise there is no useful time and there will be no practical consequence of this Parliament's intention. As regards the Left Block and the intervention you have made, Mr President, I would like to value the positive coalition that has existed in this Parliament in relation to the former combatants. It's positive. It was positive about the status and is now positive about this study. Parliament has given important signs, so it must not be underestimated. The Statute of the Old Combatant meant an advance, it meant a progress, so there is a path that is being made and "the way is going", as is evident. Another thing is to say: "There is a lot to do! » Surely, yes, and that the government must listen to Parliament and pay attention to the recommendations that are made and that are often ignored. That's what you're talking about, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly follow them. In fact, Mr António Filipe has been talking about the disabled in the Armed Forces, which we have given particular attention to, and we must continue to give, because it is about justice that has not yet been done or is complete. I conclude by saying the following: justice is done to these men who, in Angola, Mozambique and Guinea-Bissau, defended Portugal and the Portuguese flag.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u23	Mrs. Members, we turn to the second item on the agenda, which is generally assessed by Bills Nos 181 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Regulates the lobbying activity and establishes a register of transparency and a mechanism of legislative footprint ( makes the first amendment to Organic Law No 4 / 2019 of 13 September and the fourth amendment to Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ), 30 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — regulates the activity of professional representation of interests ( lobbying) and 253 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Approves transparency rules for private entities performing legitimate representation of interests with public entities and establishes a transparency register for representation of interests. To present the draft law of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u24	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is a country in which 80% of people consider payment of bribes and the use of privileged contacts to be the easiest way to succeed in business. The view of the political relationship with business does not improve when we look at the opinion of political decision-makers, where 39 % of people consider a problem the lack of transparency of contacts with lobbyists, while 22 % point to the problem of the undue influence of lobbyists in the democratic process. These data show us that much goes wrong in the relationship between political power and lobbyists, revealing that this can be one of the reasons that contributes to the lack of confidence of citizens in political power. We can « put our heads on the sand» and pretend that there is no problem with lobbying in Portugal, which is all right, or on the other hand, we may want to put forward proposals to solve this problem, which is clearly not solved by the existing legal framework, marked by inadequacies and gray areas that encourage informality and opacity in political relations with business. The NAP chooses to be on the side of the solutions and therefore today brought the debate a bill that aims to cross regulation of lobbying activity in Portugal. This is a serious and rigorous contribution to a discussion that we want to be serene and comprehensive, capable of involving civil society, as well as the political forces that, by choice or by difference, wanted to self-locate out of this debate or put up to their own bills in the drawer. With this draft law, the NAP follows the essential of recommendations from, for example, the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and International Transparency, proposing the adoption of a system for regulating lobbying similar to that existing at the European Commission and the European Parliament level, which introduces an integrated system of single and centralised registration, in which lobbyists must register but in which it is the public entities who have to report all the interactions maintained with lobbyists on a monthly basis. We want a consistent regime, in line with what exists within the framework of the European Union, which obliges lawyers to register themselves when they engage in lobbying, which has penalties for violating their rules and, of course, does not forget the need to lock the rotating door between political positions and lobbying, proposing not only periods of disgust for the entry of former lobbyists but also limiting the free movement of former lobbyists in the Assembly of the Republic. However, for the NAP, the regulation of lobbying must be able to go as far as possible and to ensure the establishment of a mandatory legislative footprint mechanism within the framework of the Assembly of the Republic, in order to ensure compliance with the provisions of the National Strategy for Combating Corruption and the recommendations of GRECO ( Group of States against Corruption ), which has advocated the introduction of this mechanism to ensure a more transparent and inclusive legislative process. We want citizens to be able, before a legislative initiative, to identify which persons or entities consulted for their preparation. It is only thus possible to ensure better monitoring of the extent of the influence of pressure groups in the Assembly of the Republic, something which we all recognize as necessary. The regulation of lobbying or interest representation activity is necessary because it has increased the pressure of citizens in our country to strengthen the transparency of the political system, because it is also necessary to avoid a certain anarchy, obscurity and informality that has occurred in this area due to the existence of gray areas and, above all, because it is necessary to avoid the general perception that, in practice, there are undue influences on public decisions and that only a certain number of privileged people have access to public decision makers. This NAP proposal is not the magic wand that solves all the evils of the political system, but it is true that it takes an unequivocal step towards ensuring a mitigation of the risks of undue influence of certain interests, increasing the levels of participation in public decision-making, increasing the transparency of the decision-making process of public decision-makers and, above all, contributing to enhancing citizens' confidence in politics and democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u25	To present the draft law of the CDS-PP and to intervene in the debate, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by stressing, with regard to lobbying and its regulations, that the CDS was the first party in this House to introduce the issue and to present a legislative initiative. We did it in the previous legislation and we did it again at the beginning of this legislation. I would like to point out that this bill has reached consensus and has gone down to the committee dealing with transparency and the fight against corruption, because this matter is relevant here. This is an initiative which was the subject of a veto by Mr President of the Republic, with several arguments, one of which - the essential and main argument - was that the diploma, in these lobbyists contacts with the sovereign entities, did not involve, for example, the Presidency itself of the Republic. Now, this matter was corrected in the bills submitted, particularly in the bill that the CDS resubmitted. This matter has an advantage right from the start. It is not the final and final solution to solve all problems, particularly the problems related to corruption, that is a very important step in a fundamental aspect of the scrutiny of political activity, which is transparency, because of course, what lobbying is defined. On the other hand, legitimate representation is regulated. Of course, we're not talking about illegitimate representation. That escapes this control, it is in another area and it has to be fought, of course, but not here. Here we are talking about the entities that, legitimately, represent interests, depending on their nature, according to their activity, and that are immediately subject to integration into a transparency register that allows them to know who their members, their partners, who their customers and, therefore, who they represent, allowing themselves to know what their activity is. As it is evident from this record, from the moment we know who these entities are and who the public authorities are talking to, we can know what they are talking about and when they talked about. That is to say, it is a little bit the theory of the possibility of legislating. in a legislative process, for example, we will know which entities represent an interest or are lobbyists, whom they have spoken to, what they have talked about and when they have spoken, what obviously gives transparency to the legislative process. From here, a set of rights is established for these entities, including the right of contact with the sovereign bodies or public entities, but also a number of duties and obligations governing their activities. There are other bills on this subject, including those of the Socialist Party and the PAN, which are not coincidental. For example, we have focused this record on the Assembly of the Republic, which we think is the best option. We do not have the same limitations as the other projects, but, frankly, at the moment, and having been the first to take this initiative, what we believe is that this matter lacks regulation and legislation. We therefore hope that this will be the moment when it is moving decisively to have more transparency in public activity, more scrutiny, because this will certainly improve political activity in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u27	To present the PS bill and to intervene in the debate, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes the other initiatives presented today in this debate, because indeed the starting point is precisely this. We're not starting the marathon, so to speak. We are taking up the legislative initiatives and legislative processes that were pending at the end of the past legislature when, at the end of the course of the work of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, this was the piece that was missing, following a conference on the subject, of three draft laws presented, of numerous hearings and contributions by civil society, the Academy and relevant institutions on this subject. We then held a wide debate in civil society, which, as has already been mentioned, was not finally approved following the impossibility of overcoming the veto of the President of the Republic, despite the fact that there is a consensus, in particular between the PS and the CDS, on how to overcome these objections. We hope that now is the time to finally succeed in taking a fundamental step in the credibility of the activities of public institutions and to follow the practice of other European States and institutions. Transparency is not a fetish. Transparency is not the panacea for all evils. Transparency is not a magic wand that suddenly transforms democracies that have difficulties, or that are adapting to growth pains, into robust, perfect and unattainable systems. However, it is relevant and is a fundamental stone for the solidity of the democratic building. Transparency strengthens the quality of democracy, allows the vote of decision makers to defend impartiality, allows legitimize decisions, promotes independence and prevents risks to the operation and independence of the system itself. It is therefore urgent that we be able to put together rules that already bind Portuguese who hold positions in bodies of the European Union, who already know, practice and deal with the obligations of registering representation of interests, and discuss their enlargement to the national sphere. Of course, we are open to continuing to improve these initiatives. We have gathered numerous contributions in the context of the discussion that preceded this debate, many of the opinions pages of several entities who wanted to participate in this process. Therefore, we not only welcome what the President's veto has caused as we want to go further and try to answer matters that are, in fact, contained in the PS electoral programme, particularly the matter of the legislative footprint mechanism, and improve, with these contributions, what should be a legislative framework that we have an opportunity to deepen. Very quickly, I would say that the principles are the same: compulsory registration before contact with public entities; a register of transparency, which can be developed and created by each entity that wishes it but knows that there is, of course, a register to function in the Assembly of the Republic; appropriate treatment of the situation of the social partners, which must of course be automatically registered because, of course, the interests they represent as legitimate are already recognized in the law; and the creation of rules on incompatibilities which prevent the existence of rotating doors, as has already been mentioned in other interventions, which ensure the additional protection of institutions and which enables them to monitor the fulfilment of rights and duties of whom they wish, together with the governing bodies, with the Public Administration, to exercise legitimate interests in the same way as everyone. In short, the European Union, the Council of Europe, the OECD, the Academy, civil society, all look at this moment as being relevant to deepening the mechanisms available to our democracy. Within the framework of the National Strategy for Combating Corruption, which is under public discussion, this is also an important additional piece, which does not, on the contrary, create additional tools to separate what is illegal from what effectively has a space in the representation of citizens to institutions, but which, therefore, should not be neglected and should be the subject of proper follow-up. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u29	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The formal lobbying activity continues without specific regulation in Portugal and, as always happens, when the formal failure, the informal dominates, with the inevitable problems of greater opacity and less scrutiny, i.e., less credibility of political life in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u32	That no one should doubt that, while there is no regulation of lobbying activity, it will exercise-CL in an informal, sub-reflective, unassumed manner, giving reason to those who base their political discourse on the argument that legislative and political activity is basically a addicted game. Today we have the opportunity to promote this transparency, this rigour and the ethics we want in public decisions. It is up to us, like Caesar's wife, to be and to seem serious. It is up to us to restore the Portuguese confidence in politics, not just to say that we represent them but to represent them effectively, transparently and fully. For this reason, the Liberal Initiative is in favour of the regulation of lobbying, without prejudice to the need to discuss, in the field of specialty, certain aspects already mentioned, such as data protection, taking into account the nature of the data to be published and the relationship of lawyers and applicants with this new regime. This is one more issue that can contribute to greater transparency in political life and, as such, it is a matter which, once again, the Liberal Initiative will make its contribution.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u33	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives put forward for the regulation of lobbying should, from our point of view, be regarded as a real shot of dry powder. In fact, I believe that this speech by Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo reveals the essential of what leads us to say we are dealing with a dry powder shot. In fact, detecting the legislative footprint, as proposed by the projects in question, will — we already know! — to mark formal meetings between interest groups or their representatives and holders of political positions. But these formal meetings are already known and are usually announced by Members themselves or parliamentary groups, precisely in the perspective of showing the dialogue that they maintain with the most diverse social forces. So that logic that now is that one will know who influences what is totally false. That conviction is totally false. The confidence of Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo that the informal ceases to exist in favour of the formal is about, but that is really all because he has no basis. The main influences, the main interests, will continue to be informal, will remain hidden and will not be detected in this call that you intend to create. For example, when the PSD proposes the maintenance or roundup of the Madeira offshore regime, do you and the ladies believe that lobbying regulations will allow you to identify who will meet with the PSD, for that purpose, in paragraph 77 of Arriaga Avenue? Oh, my God! He's not gonna detect. When you intend to understand how the Socialist Party changed, one night for the next morning, its position on the incomes of EDP (Electricity of Portugal), do you think that the lobbying regulation will detect this? Oh, my God! He's not gonna detect. So it's a dry powder shot. Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a second aspect, which you are creating an activity, a business niche, and I am already foretelling the next steps. It will arrive here any initiative to regulate the career of the wolf; then a petition will appear on the classification of the profession of the wolf as a profession of rapid wear;... [[Laughing.]] ... and, of course, there must still be a legislative initiative on the creation of the Lobists' order. It can only be! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if you want to combat seriously the influence of the most powerful powers on political activity, please join those who require serious scrutiny of the declarations of interests and declarations of income of the holders of political positions. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Please join those who believe that the Transparency Entity must have the powers and means to do so. Please join the fight against the rotating doors between business and politics. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u35	Mr António Filipe spoke for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not the first time we have discussed this matter. We did so - but the diploma approved here was vetoed, because the PS and PSD, who were subscribers, did not understand the question of whether or not there was a duty to declare the clients of the various lobbyists who were registered. This initiative has been vetoed, it has not entered into force and what we can hope for is that this will happen again, i.e. that the legislative initiatives presented here are not in the right place, because it seems to us that they are not good contributions to democracy or transparency. We will even say that they are false contributions, i.e., invoking the purpose of transparency, do not make any useful contribution to that value. These initiatives are of the long-declared interest of companies who wish to register as lobbyists to provide professionalized services of influence of political office holders and public office holders. And it is not thought that this contributes to transparency. This has already been said and it is true that, if there are untrustworthy interests that can be hidden behind legislative initiatives, these untrustworthy interests will not be confessed by the approval of this type of legislation. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo referred recently to that maximum of Caesar's wife, to whom it is not enough to be serious, it is necessary to appear. What we are offered to say is that, with an initiative of these, Caesar's wife does not need to be serious, it just seems. [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] That is to say, there is sufficient record to make everything clear and transparent, so that everything can work with complete transparency, when we know that, indeed, it is not so. It would be an absolute ingenuity to think it would be so. But from another point of view, these initiatives have something negative. For the time being, they seek to anathematize any entity which, quite legitimately, wants to alert the Assembly of the Republic to the need to take a certain legislative measure or to incorrect or inadequate any legislative measure. We believe that the contributions that citizens and associations representing the most diverse sectors can make to the legislative process are welcome. More: entities that legitimately wish to intervene in the legislative process must only gain in disseminating, themselves, these positions, as widely as possible and is in the interest of parliamentary groups, political parties and entities that receive these contributions publicize them, and that is done. Just see the information bulletin of the Assembly of the Republic to see that parliamentary groups advertise the contacts they have and that parliamentary committees not only advertise how they record and disseminate the contributions they receive. However, to claim that any entity wishing to participate in the legislative process must register and say that trade unions, in particular, can only participate in social consultation is completely absurd, because we know that those who participate in social consultation are the union centres, i.e. they are not the trade unions individually considered, and there are many trade unions who, quite legitimately, participate in legislative processes and are not represented in social consultation. For example, if the security forces unions, which do not belong to any trade union, want to contribute to their views on the legislative process, what do they do? Oh, my God! They are not covered in the bills represented here. Associations representing military interests are not either. In other words, there is a forced bureaucracy of citizen participation in the legislative process with which democracy does not gain anything at all. This participation of citizens and associations representing them in the legislative processes is nothing « stigmatizable ». On the contrary, it is a good thing for democracy and public participation that is desired in the legislative process. To sum up, from our point of view, these initiatives only serve the interests of companies who want to be professional lobbyists, they do not benefit at all from the transparency or the desirable participation of citizens in the legislative process, from which we will vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u37	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this debate, we have three legislative initiatives whose central aim is common to all and which is the intention of introducing into our legal order the regulation of the activity of representation of interests, i.e. the regulation of lobbying. It is not, as we know, a new matter, since, as has already been mentioned in the past legislature, there were identical proposals which were the subject of discussion and vote in this plenary, but that the President of the Republic ended up vetoing on the basis of three gaps identified in the message addressed to the Assembly of the Republic at the time of the return without enactment of its respective decree. this time, the proponents decided to resubmit these proposals, now alarming the issues raised by the President of the Republic but without escaping from the essential, which is the regulation of the activity of representation of interests. On these proposals, it must be said that our legal order already enshrines the legitimate representation of interests that is made by associations, professional orders, trade unions and other associations or entities representing citizens. Then, looking at the proposals, we know that it is the intention of the proposers to introduce the principle that the entities wishing to develop interest-representation activities should necessarily appear in the register used by each entity before a hearing is given or to participate in hearings by these promoters. This means that, apart from the bureaucratic burden underlying this principle, we are indisputably creating even more barriers and obstacles in the relationship between citizens and public entities or bodies. It means, for example, that if a group of people decide informally to file a complaint with the Greens Parliamentary Group because there was a discharge from a factory that is polluting a river, and, to this end, they ask for an audience, not being this group of citizens formally organized as an association and therefore not including the register, the Greens cannot receive it. No, for this petition, the Greens say 'no'! from here until registration is required for a citizen to be able to subscribe to a petition. It doesn't make sense. On the other hand, with regard to the legislative footprint, it is recalled that all the work done in this House is public, even to the hearings. I do not know whether it is common practice for all parliamentary groups, but the Greens even include in the newsletter of the Assembly of the Republic all the hearings they have with the most diverse entities. Therefore, in this matter, nothing new, nor any addition to the level of transparency in the legislative footprint. On the other hand, the idea remains that the pretext of transparency is to regulate an activity which is not by nature transparent, because opacity is part of its own DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid), and therefore more than to assign transparency to the traffic in influence, which is intended to legitimize it legally. That's all that's at stake. In conclusion, the Greens consider that lobbyists are only intermediaries who, in our view, are indispensable, even because they enhance opacity and at nothing favor the transparency that is desired.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u39	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We share your concerns, but we do not share your solutions. Political activity and public authorities today face increasing challenges, two of which I stress: the issue of transparency—yes! — because it is an important issue and is given so much to demagogy and populism, but also the question of the participation of citizens in the democracy in which we want to live. These questions go hand in hand. The PSD has always, very clearly about this leadership, had an active availability attitude to find the best solutions that support these two objectives, but does not abdicate the intention of having a transparency framework that, by not compromising the useful and desirable links between all involved, be feasible, be credible and reveal good sense. This is not the case with these projects! We assume the wish that the manager of the public thing should give account of his activity, but in the same size, we believe that if we want the law to be respected, we must make it respect. And this, I believe, must be a very expensive principle to the legislator, which is what we are. Or not? It is not enough to have a law, we must have a law capable of being fulfilled by its recipients.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u42	If the law is not made with the firm intention of being met and fulfilled, otherwise said, if it is to be failed, what is the meaning of putting into effect? Is it intended to create regulatory frameworks to introduce real changes in public and political life and in its way of operation or only, with a poor conscience, to create in people the illusory perception of what happened? Is that the transparency they seek? These projects generally cover thousands and thousands of public actors—not just Members—with the same rules, either the President of the Republic or the President of the Board. You think this is the same reality? More: they redeploy contacts with citizens beyond the imaginable, anticipating solutions that are, at least, framed in the dynamics of a politician's life or, for example, the life of an author; they impose unthinkable administrative obligations on political agents, either to record contacts that are targeted, regardless of the degree of informality, either for the periodic reports to which they are required. Not even with a block of notes in hand a political agent can ensure the registration and reporting of all formal and informal contacts of which it is targeted. I don't think I'm ever going to a condominium meeting again! These projects make it very difficult, not to say that they prevent in practice the citizen's access to the political agent, because it obliges him to register previously in a central register of the Assembly or place to even approach on the street the president of the board, the councilor or the president of the chamber. And, moreover, when the system fails, and we do not doubt what it is done to fail, the punished will be the citizens, not the politicians, for its failure to comply. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u43	Mr José Manuel Pureza spoke for one speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I use the floor only to add something more to this debate. Several arguments have already been made on both sides, but I would like to add an argument for our consideration of the legislative initiatives in question. This argument has to do with the signal that Parliament gives according to what is, let us say, the will to consult with Parliament. In fact, not long ago, this Parliament began to make it difficult for the public to process and debate here in Parliament to petition citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u45	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u46	Now, you are saying, if these projects are approved, that the lobbyists will have a registered form and, therefore, dignified access to Parliament. It is therefore a profoundly contradictory sign. I would like to draw attention to this fact, because I believe that this House should honour democracy and not distort it with such signs. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u47	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u48	Not yet, Mr. President. I didn't sign up.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u49	As it still has 2 minutes and 8 seconds, I thought that, following the logic that the parties that presented projects had more time at the end, I intended to intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u50	Excuse me, Mr. President. I don't know if there are any more inscriptions, so for now I don't sign up.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u51	He didn't sign up, really. You're right, you're not obliged to intervene. Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u52	I am sorry, Mr President, but I would like to see if there are no more entries from the non-proposers, because I think there are other parties that still have time. That was the point. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u53	Even before we enter the closing period, you have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Rios.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u54	Mr President, I will take this time to reveal some of the capital sins of these diplomas, basically based on the popular saying "who much embraces, not too tight. Do not keep on seeking. ” With these diplomas, they wanted to cover half the world in the activities of legitimate representation of interests: natural persons, legal persons, those who defend third parties, those who defend their own interests, finally, everyone is covered by these initiatives. Have you ever imagined the thousands of completely ridiculous solutions that this will give? They cover all contacts, not only informal meetings, not only formal meetings, but all contacts. Any author will be afraid to leave the street from now on or will have to tell someone « go away, register », or then I imagine on Facebook, by WhatsApp, at the entrance of Parliament, everyone will have to answer in a way only: « No registration there is no conversation ». And the e-mails we're receiving about euthanasia? Do we have to answer everyone? No, come and register, if you want to talk to us. [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] In addition, they force everyone to register. In other words, it cannot even happen that there are entities which, by their nature, because of the lack of legal constitution, may not be covered. More: you have to make a prior record. In other words, anyone who requests an audience from a councillor will have as an answer « register» and then speak! Even more, they cover thousands of recipients. The gentlemen. Members are thinking that this is only for the Members. It's not! They're thousands! All the autarchs are covered! Mrs. Members, frankly, do you think it is possible to be in public life, rejecting, repriminating, rejecting any contact, of any kind, written, spoken, formal or informal, in this way? This is done not to be fulfilled. It's demagogic, it's populist! Those gentlemen like it, but it won't solve anything, on the contrary! This is being done to get caught! Not because we don't do it, but because the law is really bad. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u55	After all, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves always wants to talk. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u56	Now, yes, Mr. President. It's the dynamics of parliamentary dialectics. Mr. President, in the remaining two minutes, I must begin by noting, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, that there are two ways of facing the debate: or we do it seriously, looking at the rules and trying to understand what is there,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u57	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u58	... which results from comparative law, which results from exactly the same standards existing in the European Union and in other states, or, then, we have come to do a bit of theatre, in which you make an interesting intervention, makes a joke, notes that "we will now have to record the contact of all people. If I find someone on the street who has a pear falling from a tree, we will have to register it». [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Rios de Oliveira.]] I put this in a ridiculous way, because it was the intervention of your party that noted that now, whenever a citizen has a tree with a branch entering the window of his house, he will have to register. Notably, that is not what you are here, Mr President!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u59	That's what's here!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u60	Just have participated in the debate, know what are the concepts that are used and try to be serious in how you view the problem to realize that this is not what is here. Of course, it is excluded from the scope of legitimate representation of interests with other entities the representation that a individual, a citizen, makes in his or her capacity as a director, when he or she is addressed to a public institution, in a procedural contact, governed by the Code of Administrative Procedure. This citizen makes a contact on his own behalf to solve the problem of the hole on his street. Of course, that's not what we're talking about! instead, we talk about the problem that is underlying here, which is the existence of situations in which, in the influence of the legislative procedure, it is essential that we monitor who is the people who contact the public decision makers, who, in the framework also authentic, is fundamental, for example, in the decision of the location of a sanitary landfill of a polluting industry or other. Perhaps I was not so shocked by the example given recently by Mr José Luís Ferreira: "Well, then, and now, the unfortunates who want to come to notice the problem of an illegal discharge in a river? Do not keep on seeking. ” Certainly, it does not shock us and it is even important that they come, and that they come with vehemence! But first of all, this is not necessarily an intervention in a legislative process, and secondly, I would like to reverse the question: and if it is a group of polluting industries that wants to contact the honourable Member informally and which does not register, why does it not exist formally, because it is not an association? Should we not be concerned that it is not selective where it has been, when I intervene, with whom it has spoken, and when? Don't the citizen have the right to know that? Listening to the speeches made by the honourable Members. Members of the PCP or the Left Block seem to be in the opposite world. There seems to be no reality in which lobbyists already exist and act without rules and without any way of controlling incompatibilities and impediments, rotating doors and undue influence. Obviously, the goal is not one day for another, as I said recently, solve, with a touch of magic wand, all the problems. Now, I think that when we put a holophoto on a problem to try to detect it and separate the wheat from the juicy, we are creating a problem and that, in this proposal, at the bottom, we are benefiting who, in reality, can make any contact, today, without any kind of rule, that is to see the world contrary, with due respect.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u61	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u62	I will finish, Mr. President. Obviously, it is advantageous, it is good to be able to have rules that put more light and transparency in this activity. It will not solve everything, of course, we will continue to have problems, but the situation will undoubtedly be better than the starting point. Finally, we are available to, if necessary, clarify that this does not apply to cases of natural persons — natural persons are referred to because an individual lobbyist representing a third party may arise and, in this case, must be registered —...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u63	I'm right, after all!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u64	...to make it absolutely clear that we are not talking about citizens, of course, we have a willingness to, in the specialty, to take care of all these matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u65	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u66	Mr President, in a very brief way, I would like to say that the first assumption of the need, or not, of this regulation is very obvious: does this activity exist or does it not exist? The message of the President of the Republic itself was very clear. The gentlemen. You didn't read it? It is very clearly read there that it is important to regulate the action, as it has just been said, of organized pressure groups acting alongside the legislative process, with sovereign bodies, etc. Because that exists, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira. There's them, there's them! It's a little like witches. So do we want the process to be transparent or not? That's what we're discussing. It is between those who believe that this matter has to be transparent and who, of course, uses arguments, absurdly, so that there is no transparency. What's here, obviously, is nothing they've tried, somehow, to ridicule.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u67	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u68	You know that as well as I do.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u69	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u70	It would not even be compulsory to register in that case. Only those who wish to dedicate themselves to this activity would be obliged to register. And, being obliged to do so, you have to know who you met and when.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u71	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u72	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. In any case, why does it not apply to the tax the argument that the best thing is not to do anything, Mr President? There's still going to be a tax leak! By the way, the best thing is to end the statements. Since there's escape, since there's crime, it's best not to do anything! Don't! The best thing is to regulate and demand transparency!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u73	Watch out for the sliding ramp!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u74	To conclude the debate on this item on the agenda, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u75	Mr President, I am divided into two parts. The first to address the intervention which was critical, but serious, and which we consider constructive of Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Block, which invokes two arguments against our initiative. One of them is the "dry powder shot" because the influence is not actually made at meetings, but is done informally. The honourable Member had the opportunity to read our bill and had seen Article 2. the list and exemplify, exhaustively, object situations, in which several are included that are not formal, are informal, and in which we seem to fit the concerns of the Left Block. However, if the Left Block considers that the list of non-formal situations provided for in Article 2. and that you read in our draft law does not arrive, you can propose an alternative wording, in the specialty. It does not seem to us that regulating lobbying is the way to combat undue influences in the legislative process. Then the honourable Member also says « good, we are here legalizing a business area». She's legal!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u76	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u77	The problem is that lobbying activity in Portugal is legal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u78	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u79	The question is whether we want to regulate it or not. What we think is that this is a legal activity, which is absolutely insufficient in regulation, has several gaps and gray areas and which, from our point of view, must be regulated.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u80	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u81	In the second part of my speech, I would like to comment on Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, who said that these initiatives do not make any contribution. However, this says a lot, or everything, about the CFP's position on transparency, and there would be nothing more to say. However, I would like to disagree with what you have said by saying that these legislative initiatives are taking the unions to deal with these matters. Therefore, Mr. Deputies, either you are missing the truth or you have not read the draft law of the NAP. Article 2. point (a) of paragraph 3 excludes trade unions from this scope.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u82	Read to the end! Read to the end!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u83	So, I'm sorry, but you're not being clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u84	Read to the end! Only excludes within the framework of social consultation! Only in that context!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u85	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, we are shocked at the lack of seriousness with which this debate is taking place! How is it that the Social Democratic Party, the largest opposition party wants to be government with this absolutely demagogic and regrettable intervention?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u86	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u87	Mr President, a citizen who, on the street, wants to address the president of his parish board in order to put a problem to him must register as a lobbyist! That's absolutely false! So, of two, one : either Mr is missing the truth or, then, he has been ill prepared for this debate and has not read the draft law of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u88	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u89	Just read what is in Article 2. paragraph 3 (c) to verify clearly that they are not covered by this bill, and I quote « Requests, representations, claims or complaints addressed to public entities, formulated individually or collectively, without any remuneration consideration, within the scope of the right to petition or participation in public life. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u90	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u91	Mr President, be more serious in the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u92	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be a good exercise at home to see the US Congress session that took place two days ago and see how Members respected interventions, often 30 seconds without exceeding them in one second.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u93	I have many doubts that the American Congress is a good example!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u94	We may have to have a device here so that it happens here too, because there really are time-consuming surpluses that are not tolerable. Mrs. Members, who have reached the end of this debate, will begin the third point on our agenda today, with the appreciation of draft resolution No 533 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Evaluation of the 1990 Ortographic Agreement. So 30 years ago. To present the initiative, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the 1980s, a group of Portuguese-language specialists met and created a series of amending orthographic rules, allegedly for « unification and simplification of Portuguese writing ». In 1990, two documents were signed: the Unified Spelling Project of the Portuguese Language and the Introduction to the Unified Spelling Project of the Portuguese Language, which would give rise to the 1990 Ortographic Agreement ( a ). This Agreement was signed by Portugal, Angola, Brazil, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique and São Tomé and Príncipe, and Timor-Leste acceded in 2004. In Portugal, it officially entered into force on 13 May 2009 with a period of six years for its full implementation. In primary and secondary schools, it was applied in 2011 and in 2012 it was applied in all other State agencies and publications. After several years of effective implementation of the 1990 Ortographic Agreement, the Greens consider it important to assess whether the three objectives were met. in a comparison of words changed in Portuguese spoken in Brazil and Portugal, it is known that 2691 words remained different, that 569 words became equal and that 1235 words, of the same words that were, were made different. of these, two hundred changed only in Portugal. Although the "orthographic unification" is advocated, this double handwriting is maintained and even multiplied...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u96	Mrs. Deputy, I'll interrupt you for one second. It's just that there's a lot of noise in the room. to the Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen standing and talking, I ask you to withdraw from the Chamber or sit down and not talk. Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u97	He said that, despite the use of 'orthographic unification', this dual printing is maintained and even multiplied because the scope of the Agreement is allowed, i.e. the diversity of writing between the two countries has increased. thus, unification was a failed objective. In the second objective, it became visible that, with the adoption of « double spelling», many ambiguities and even language chaos were generated. Thus, simplification was also a failed objective. In the third objective, it was found, on the basis of retrospective analyses of its application, that the ‘help’ to facilitate the learning of Portuguese would not need to be much, since the spelling errors of children and adults in learning did not affect, in particular, this type of spelling. But more: given the ambiguities generated, teaching agents were never able to solve the dualities and difficulties created, making it very difficult to transmit safe and logical information to students. Thus, aid to education was also a failed objective. Thus, the implementation of this Agreement ends up being incompatible with the objectives proposed, and it is essential that an assessment of its application be made. No less important is the fact that so far the 1990 Ortographic Agreement has not been ratified by all countries. Within the framework of the CPLP ( Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries ), the Agreement is in force in Portugal, Brazil, São Tomé and Príncipe and Cape Verde, while Timor-Leste and Guinea-Bissau only ratified it without implementing it. There is a lack of ratification of the agreement by Angola and Mozambique and we remember that in Brazil there are several reservations regarding the application of the agreement. in this context, it should be noted that spelling—and the language code, in general—is one of the matrices of a people and any change of this nature will have to be made in a well structured, coherent, participated and accompanied by a serious assessment of all its impacts. The truth is that any study that attests to economic viability, social impact and adequacy to the historical, national and heritage context of this Agreement is unknown, as well as that has never been achieved, until today, its full acceptance by broad sectors of society. What is at stake is the absolute need to evaluate the implementation of the 1990 Ortographic Agreement, because it is the defence of the Portuguese language as a cultural heritage and therefore a matter of public interest, and this process must ensure the participation of the academic and literary community and outline the path to be followed, through the correction of the negative effects and, if that is the conclusion, in a limited situation, of the orientation for its suspension, by cautioning all the procedures for the indispensable follow-up and transition of this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u98	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The so-called « New Orthographic Agreement », which again has very little, since almost three decades have passed since its signature by the then seven Portuguese-speaking countries, continues, as you see, to raise discussion and controversy. The dynamic generated is concentrated on two large blocks: the opponents, who present a set of relevant criticisms and defend their immediate revocation, and a favorable block, of whom they consider positive and valid the step taken. over time, and perhaps weighing the costs of reversibility, it seems to be increasing the number of those who advocate at least the possibility of improving the 1990 Ortographic Agreement. But at least over the past few years, after the problems already recognised and the lack of ratification by some countries, Portugal should be able to assess the Agreement, its effects, its accession and its decision. In the previous legislature, a working group was set up to assess the impact of the application of the 1990 Ortographic Agreement, coordinated by Mr José Carlos Barros of the Social Democratic Party. I would like to highlight three conclusions from this working group. First of all, and even though the Agreement aims at orthographic unification, the truth is that the Lusophony is currently divided among the countries that have ratified it, but apply different versions of it; those who have not ratified it and maintain the 1945 spelling; and those who have ratified it, but do not apply it. Secondly, there are no studies involving the scientific community on the implications of the Ortographic Agreement in the teaching system, in the editorial sector and in the orthographic stability in public services and in official publications. Thirdly, it also concluded this working group, which is proven the existence of questionable options, incongruences and ambiguities of the Ortographic Agreement, from a technical and linguistic point of view. Following these conclusions, Mr rapporteur proposed a set of recommendations, which the CDS has signed on to date and which it has voted in favour. It highlights two: that the Government initiate political and diplomatic negotiations between the authorities of the various Member States based in the CPLP, with a view to discussing the situation of the 1990 Orthographic Agreement, the weighting of the most appropriate decisions including the possibility and the interest of initiating a process of amendment, or improvement, of the Agreement or the negotiation of another orthographic agreement ; and, secondly, the conduct of studies involving State services and academic, scientific, literary and professional communities, with a view to assessing the implications of the Orthographic Agreement, as has already been said, in the educational system, in the editorial market, in the press, as well as and very important, in the level of orthographic stability in public services and official publications. Therefore, maintaining a critical position vis-à-vis the Agreement and the process, but also a responsible position, given that it is a multilateral treaty between luxophone countries and that it has been in force in Portugal for several years, the CDS will follow the recommendations of the draft resolution of the Green Party. There isn't, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, double handwriting for the word 'assessment' and there should also be no doubt about the imperative of doing so and that is why we voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u100	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP welcomes the Greens Ecological Party for bringing this issue to plenary, providing a new discussion on the 1990 Ortographic Agreement. Indeed, on 4 June 1991 the CFP was the only parliamentary group that did not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the ratification of the Ortographic Agreement. We criticised the methodology followed by the then Government for the clearance of the bases from the 90th and we expressed our concerns about the consequences of the Agreement. The truth is that, despite the first amending protocol and later the second protocol, problems, contradictions were maintained, as well as the lack of response to criticisms that had already been carried out in 1990 by several people and by several entities. We continue to discuss this subject for three decades. This shows that it is not closed and that the arguments that said that in half a dozen years this matter would be resolved, as has often been said here in the Assembly of the Republic, that the transition would go smoothly, that everything would be stabilized, will not be confirmed. I fear - I have said this on numerous occasions: there are inconsistencies, inadequacies, practical difficulties in the application of the Agreement, which are visible every day in schools, in the media, in the books, in the official pages of public entities, as is the case in which we find ourselves. In the two working groups that already existed on this subject in the Assembly of the Republic, one of which was proposed by the CFP, this was also found in the most numerous written contributions and hearings, which led to the inclusion of initiatives by the CFP in order to initiate measures to promote Portugal's withdrawal from the Ortographic Agreement under the Vienna Convention. In fact, it should also be noted that the transitional period establishing a phased application of the new agreement rule could actually have fulfilled the role that a real transition period should play: to allow an assessment of the real impacts, of the inadequacies, of the advantages, of the disadvantages, but also of the public receptivity it had or was having the new norm. However, that is not what happened in our country. The opportunity of study, systematic and scientific follow-up on the perception and use of the Ortographic Agreement within the population, especially the educational community, was wasted. There are some questions still unanswered: where can the assessment of the effects of the entry into force of the Ortographic Agreement in Portugal be read, as the Agreement itself provides for in the language, editorial and educational plans? What strict assessment was made by the Government of the impacts which, from the point of view of the education system, had the entry into force of the New Orthographic Agreement? What evaluation was made of the consequences that, from a scientific and pedagogical point of view, in Portuguese programs, had the entry into force of the Orthographic Agreement? These are questions that, in fact, still have no answers. That is why we are following the Greens'initiative, which aims at the overall scientific assessment of the implementation of the Agreement and the action taken as a result of that process and, including the possibility of suspension from 90. The reality is also a determining aspect: at the end of the transitional period, it is found that 31 years ago there is no commonly accepted orthographic agreement, on subscription and deposit of instruments of ratification with the depositary State, by all the countries of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries. And probably there will never be. The PCP has no fixed or conservative design around the spelling. We value scientific participation, technical improvement of the written standard, intelligibility, the democratity of writing and orality. The language is the cultural heritage of the peoples, it is a living organism, it cannot be subject to a deterministic conception of those who claim to be this Ortographic Agreement, exactly in the terms in which it is, unalterable and irrevocable. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u102	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Pedro Cegonho, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor, continuing with the speeches.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese-speaking Orthographic Agreement in force in Portugal was an effort to converge between an initial group of seven Portuguese-speaking countries, to which, fortunately, Timor-Leste was added, giving our common language the possible unit at the level of the spelling. Therefore, it consolidates a cohesion that enables all Member States to defend and design the Portuguese language, as an identity language of a common culture, to increase their international weight and eliminate a tendency that existed for the distance between two aspects called "official", which reduced the value of the Portuguese language globally. It is important to stress the relevance of the Agreement for Literacy: facilitating the learning of writing and reading, in the vast framework of the speakers of the Portuguese of CPLP. We believe it is always useful to reaffirm that the Agreement affects the spelling of the Portuguese language and not the grammar of the varieties of Portuguese spoken by the world, which are neither, nor can ever be, altered by an orthographic reform. The evolution of orthographic reforms during the 20th century, even in the simple internal and national sphere, has always been distressed and causing strangeness and understandable rejections to some standards to be adopted. It was always a reason for generational divisions, between those who learn from the new spelling and those who remain faithful to previous standards. For example, the works of Sophia de Mello Breyner, Maria Velho da Costa and Agustina Bessa Luís or the works of Fernando Pessoa, Herberto Hélder and José Saramago do not lose the cultural and literary excellence due to any update of the spelling to which they are subject by the Orthographic Agreement. It is important to note that, in order to resolve scientific differences, a site was designed, defined in the text of the treaty itself, the International Institute of Portuguese Language, where the debate should be conducted by linguists and academic specialists, with scientific rigour and criteria, within and within the internal framework of the Agreement, which is ignored in the text of the draft resolution under discussion. They have the Member States, within the framework of the CPLP and the International Institute of Portuguese Language, working towards the construction of a Common Spell Vocabulary, which is an instrument for the operationalization of the Agreement, for which they compete national spelling vocabularies, vocabularies which have been developed by teams of experts from the various Member States. These operational vocabularies are dynamic instruments and supported in computer tools, where their possible gaps or incongruences are detected, corrected and reviewed by national expert commissions, appointed by the official bodies of each country and constituted by renowned linguists. The work already carried out in this area points to solutions for clarifying and simplifying the learning of the rules of the standard of the Ortographic Agreement and not for revising the text of the Agreement between countries and even less for their suspension or withdrawal. The first presentation of the Common Orthographic Vocabulary was held during the II International Conference on the Future of Portuguese Language in the World System in October 2013. On May 12, 2017, in the city of the beach, in Cape Verde, was launched the digital platform of the Common Orthographic Vocabulary, which congregates national vocabularies of Brazil, Cape Verde, Mozambique, Portugal and Timor-Leste. The National Orthographic Vocabulary of São Tomé and Príncipe will also join this platform very soon, which already contains about 310,000 vocabularies from those five countries of the Lusophone community. This is the official reference resource for Portuguese writing, allows to know the spelling, syllabic division, flexion and other formal properties of each Portuguese word in the different countries of the CPLP. This means, therefore, that there has been a work to deepen the instruments based on the Orthographic Agreement, which also constitutes the standard whereby all teaching of Portuguese abroad is governed, as well as all supporting materials used in teaching and learning Portuguese language, developed by the Portuguese editorial sector. The affirmation of historical links between the CPLP countries and the link between their diasporas in a globalised world will only be consolidated before the application and deepening of the Ortographic Agreement for the Portuguese Language. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u104	For an intervention, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Three decades after the Ortographic Agreement has been approved, discussions and disputes about its development, conclusion and application remain. Disputes occur between those who oppose any type of orthographic agreement, who want to preserve the graphical identity of each variant of Portuguese, and those who support it, arguing that mutations can be approximate in the global sphere, facilitating language access to third parties. Each side mobilizes political, technical-linguistic and legal arguments, as well as the implications of the Agreement in the educational system to support its positions. The 1990 Agreement is not perfect or consensual and the various difficulties in its application are unequivocal and therefore the debate cannot, nor should it be summed up in the confrontation between the two positions. The objective of a graphical and merely graphic approach, not intervening on the lexicon or on any synthetic formation, is recognized as positive in the global world. However, an agreement needs accordors and this only has explicit meaning if it includes a very significant majority of the people who use Portuguese. As we know, the 1990 Ortographic Agreement is only in force in four of the eight signatory countries. Angola and Mozambique have not yet corrected it. Timor-Leste and Guinea-Bissau have not yet implemented it. To unify, in a common language, the Portuguese language, it is necessary to identify errors and find solutions. For a long time, the forecast of indispensable instruments in the application of the Ortographic Agreement, in particular the Common Ortographic Vocabulary, should have been completed, which is not a minor problem in this graphic transition. The Common Orthographic Vocabulary can be a privileged vehicle to address points of disagreement of the Portuguese graphic fixation in respect for its national and geographical diversity. However, the Common Orthographic Vocabulary of the Portuguese Language is not yet completed. The official website of the International Institute of Portuguese Language reads that the Common Spell Vocabulary has gradually integrated the vocabulary of each CPLP country after political verification and conformity with a common methodology and criteria, having so far been integrated representative data of Brazil, Cape Verde, Mozambique, Portugal and Timor-Leste. Nor is it acceptable that in the face of expressions that are manifestly gross errors there has been no political capacity to anticipate the need to politically take a technical review of the Ortographic Agreement. Although the implementation process has been subject to scrutiny in the Assembly of the Republic, through the working groups created in the XII and XIII legislatures, to follow up the application of the Ortographic Agreement and to evaluate the impact of the application of the 1990 Ortographic Agreement, and both groups have held numerous hearings and have collected dozens of contributions, no prospect of improvement was presented in the report produced by the group in the common Portuguese spelling. In view of the identified inadequacies, we advocate the opening of a technical review process, facilitated by the rapid publication of the Common Orthographic Vocabulary, which would assist in the acquisition of skills for the learning of writing. We consider it essential that the Government, through political and diplomatic channels, initiate contacts with the contracting parties in order to define the institutional model of this technical review process, which should be conducted by academic and scientific communities linked to the Portuguese language in their respective signatory States. The identification of abnormal situations, the explanation of the applicable criteria, the exposure of reference contents and objective proposals should be able to be studied, discussed and worked critically in the academic and scientific media of the respective countries. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u106	For an intervention, Mrs Fernanda Velez of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese-language Orthographic Agreement signed on 16 December 1990 by the then seven Portuguese-speaking countries — Portugal, Angola, Brazil, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique and São Tomé and Príncipe — was approved in Portugal in 1991. Timor-Leste joined in 2004 after the declaration of independence. In our country, the spelling of the 1990 Ortographic Agreement would only be implemented from 1 January 2012, with early application in teaching, from the beginning of the school year 2011 - 2012. The motivations that led to the signing of this Agreement were essentially political and economic, aiming at the affirmation and projection of the Portuguese language in an increasingly global world. In fact, the Portuguese language, in order to impose itself as a language of communication, culture, science and business, lacks orthographic uniformity. Because of the circumstances and changes underlying it, the 1990 Ortographic Agreement continues to give rise to discussion and controversy. Those who oppose him present a number of criticisms and defend their revocation, pure and simple. Those who are favorable to it consider the work done, despite its complexity, suggesting improvements to clean edges, emphasize the normality with which its implementation has come to occur and consider it normal some discord and public opposition, which always happen when orthographic reforms. With regard to the disputes and public manifestations of opposition to the Agreement, Rolf Kemmler, researcher at the University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro, recalls that this has always been the case and that, in fact, few government decision-making regulations have been able to achieve the status of "eternal center of dialogue", such as the graphic rules adopted by the Portuguese State, as a result of two reforms and the four orthographic agreements that have effectively entered into force in our country. If we compare the Portuguese spoken and written by Almeida Garrett or by Eça de Queiroz, we will perceive many lexical, syntactic, phonetic and orthographic differences. Some of these differences resulted from natural developments, the result of historical and social changes. Others, on the contrary, were amended by orthographic reforms. And if, indeed, during previous legislatures, in the working groups on the implementation of the 1990 Ortographic Agreement, "inadequacies, inconsistencies and obstacles to their application and use have been raised", as referred to by the Parliamentary Group of the Greens Ecological Party in the draft resolution under consideration, it is also important to say that, in the conclusions of the work carried out by these same working groups, the position of those who argue that the Agreement should continue its normal course to its effective and widespread implementation, given that we are facing an agreement that corresponds to a compromise freely taken by eight States; that is a political and socially established fact, and that its implementation is being accelerated; and that it involved a long negotiating period of diplomatic nature, in respect of legal standards, diplomatic conventions and safeguard of good relations between States. from an educational point of view, rather than what the initiative under discussion affirms, the Agreement is being applied normally in the educational system; the new rules, with a simplified and approximate spelling of speech, bring more facilities and advantages to the learning of Portuguese; there is a generation that has already learned according to the new rules, so the reversal of the Agreement would not make any sense to the thousands of young people whose schooling began after their entry into force; it is not true that more spelling errors are being verified in the Portuguese teaching system; the pedagogical advantages are real, with the adoption of a common orthographic standard and the consequent reduction of orthographic divergences; and there is already a generation that accepts the new spelling as a unique and inconvertable orthographic norm, within its school and university career. To suspend the application of this Orthographic Agreement would be an irresponsible step, with serious consequences,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u108	I haven't read the draft resolution!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u109	... especially for the thousands of young people whose schooling began after their entry into force.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u110	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u111	In view of the facts reported, which clearly contradict the statement of reasons contained in the initiative under discussion, the PSD Parliamentary Group believes that it makes no sense, and would even be counterproductive, to suspend the 1990 Ortographic Agreement. To insist on the possible suspension of this Agreement implies creating a scenario of deep destabilization of orthographic standards and, at the same time, creating a climate of confusion on a subject which, in spite of some controversy, today has a normal climate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u112	To close this debate, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Although this issue has already been discussed in the previous legislatures, as has already been said, we know, for example, that almost all of the opinions on the 1990 Ortographic Agreement were negative — of the 27 opinions requested, 25 were negative — although they had been ignored and never seriously discussed. It should also be noted that this Agreement was prepared in debates other than the population and academic and literary communities, without taking into account much of the contributions that have been made. In addition, the transitional period should have allowed an assessment of the impacts, gaps, advantages and disadvantages, but also of its receptivity. This did not happen, wasting the opportunity to study and monitor its implementation. The Greens therefore recommend, with this initiative—and, Mrs Fernanda Velez, they have not read the project, because no one has asked for the Agreement to be suspended—...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u114	In your caution...!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u115	... that the government, and I quote because it may even change its opinion, « Promotes a global scientific assessment of the effects of the application of the 1990 Ortographic Agreement, diagnosing the perception of its use among the general population, schools, academic and literary communities and media bodies, making it public. and that "The result of this assessment shall be promoted measures with a view to correcting the harmful and negative effects that are identified and, if the conclusions of such assessment thus indicate, in a limited situation (...)) — in a limited situation after the study! — take over the suspension of the Agreement, '(...) cautioning the necessary follow-up and transition measures in order to avoid further destabilization in this process. Do not keep on seeking. ” The language is alive, Mrs Deputy, and there is always a chance to correct ourselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u116	We move on to point 4 of our agenda, with the appreciation of petitions Nos 78 / XIV / 1. a (Júlia Cristina Guerra de Carvalho do Couto et al.) — By integrating the case of lawyers and applicants in social security and 79 / XIV / 1. a (Júlia Cristina Guerra de Carvalho do Couto et al.) — Nationalization of the Preventive Box of Lawyers and Applicants for Integration into Social Security, together with, in general, the Bill No. 614 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Integration of the Safety Box of Lawyers and Social Security Applicants with the Resolution Project No 829 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare and submit to the Assembly a study on the feasibility of the integration of the Law Box of Advocates and Advocates in Social Security, with, in general, Law Projects No 612 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Guarantees lawyers, applicants and implementing agents the possibility of choosing the system of contributions between CPAS and Social Security and 637 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Establishment of a committee for the possible integration of the Advocates and Applicants' Safety Box ( CPAS) into the general social security regime and with Resolution Projects Nos 642 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure that lawyers, trainees and applicants receive fair and fair remuneration for the services they provide under legal protection, 735 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government that dialogue with the CPAS, the Order of Lawyers and the Order of Applicants and Executive Agents in the framework of setting the factor of correction of the contributor indexer to 2021 and 818 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government ensure that reflection and weighting on the possibility of integrating the Advocates'Prevention Box ( CPAS ) into Social Security, to be equated by the Government, is necessarily done in close coordination with the CPAS, the Advocates'Order and the Order of Applicants and Implementing Agents. Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block welcomes the struggle of lawyers, applicants and enforcement agents for their social protection and sees, in the petitions we have seen today discuss, very important gestures of mobilising these professionals for their rights. The pandemic dramatically aggravated the evidence of the severe inadequacy of the CPAS welfare regime to the social support needs currently experienced by the vast majority of lawyers, applicants and enforcement agents. The CPAS was created and statutoryly structured to ensure retirement pensions to liberal professionals with a solid and stable income and contribution capacity. This model collapsed due to a quantitative change and a qualitative change in its assumptions. First, the huge increase in the number of professionals covered involved the need to strengthen the guarantee of financial sustainability of the CPAS and the solution adopted was the sdruxula and unconstitutional setting of a contribution obligation calculated on the assumed income rather than on the effective yield. Secondly, that increase in number has a social face. And he's the precaution of these professionals. Be in the media and large law firms, in which a large number of lawyers, especially young people, perform their duties with low wages and without a contract of work which guarantees them basic social rights, either in the individual exercise, with a few and poor constituent universe, and in which delays and indecency of the remuneration of legal aid aggravate the unsustainability of the profession. For this vast majority of precarious and proletarian lawyers, CPAS means an extremely low yield, without the guarantee of minimum social rights. Something that the pandemic showed in all its cruelty, but which is independent of it. The answer to this fragility — a response that petitioners have asked this House — is to comply with the Constitution of the Republic. The Constitution establishes that « it is the responsibility of the State to organize, coordinate and subsidize a unified social security system». This constitutional command was materialized in the integration in 2012 of a multiplicity of sectoral welfare systems into social security. It remained one : the CPAS. The bill that the Left Block brings today to Parliament has exactly as a plan first to comply with the Constitution, integrating CPAS into social security and thus equipping lawyers, applicants and enforcement agents of the same social protection regime as all other independent workers—to defend who defend us, giving lawyers, applicants and enforcement agents the social protection that a social state should ensure to everyone. The Left Block is thus taking the step that aims to put an end to a taboo that has only contributed to not face up to the reality of the immense social and economic fragility that is today the mark of the exercise of advocacy for the vast majority of its professionals. The Constitution is respected, ensuring the social protection of lawyers, applicants and implementing agents, and integrating the CPAS into social security. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u118	For an intervention you have the floor, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners, who bring us a more than legitimate concern, with the lack of effective social assistance to these professionals who, as we well know, have a plurality in labour relations that does not co-operate with a static regime and that has not been updated with the evolution of the profession. Living in a rule of law, the discussion we are having here today is of crucial importance, because we do not simply discuss the withdrawal of any body or even the inclusion of rotating doors in it, but rather the definition of how we decide to protect our fellow citizens, how much freedom we give them to choose the mechanisms that guarantee that same social protection and also the role of the State in that same protection. Both during this debate and during the rest of the debate, we must bear in mind that this is an absolutely exceptional, unique regime between us, whose beneficiaries are also a varied group, not only of liberal professionals, but today, within their profession, different links, including working relationships of subordination or, in particular, precarious links, such as young trainees, who are forced to work for several years, often without any remuneration. Now, since the CPAS is only designed for retirement pensions, it is undisturbed today that we do not talk about the need for social assistance to these professionals. However, the structural problems presented by the CPAS, such as insufficient support for maternity and disease, among other gaps in the fair and effective treatment of its beneficiaries, are often known. In addition to these fundamental problems, there is still a plurality of new labour relations that have completely changed the professional sphere of the beneficiaries of the CAPA, without this being guarded in the legal order. Moreover, the health crisis, in addition to having made the system's shortcomings under discussion very clear, has also shown a huge insensitivity to the reality of these professions, both by the CPAS and by the Government, demonstrating that not only have they not followed the drastic changes that have happened, as they have maintained an out-of-date view of the reality of these professionals, who have been, and are, without any social support for many months. So assuming that it is absolutely necessary to take a position and start a fast and determined process — we well know — in order to measure the feasibility of the hypotheses available to meet the existing gaps and their consequences, it is essential, in our view, to prepare an exhaustive study on the feasibility of the full integration of the Counsel and Applicants' Safety Box into social security, as well as its vast heritage, which is not clearly serving the classes that should protect. Only through this study, rigorous and free of bias, will we have the information that we consider absolutely essential for a process of conscious and informed decision-making, which can be assessed as potential advantages and disadvantages of such integration. Worse than taking this step without full knowledge than could be concerned, it would be to introduce a mixed system, which could, in the very short term, leave the beneficiaries of the CPAS without any protection or alternative and without the rights of those who would be part of the general regime being safeguarded. We also understand that the problems of these professionals do not run out in your Safety Box. For this reason, in addition to our proposal to recommend a study on the feasibility of the integration of the case of lawyers and social security applicants, we also present today a draft resolution, which calls for the defence of the appreciation of lawyers, trainees' lawyers and applicants who are in the process of providing legal protection services. To this end, we recommend that the Government update the value of the reference unit including the value of inflation, also recommending that it compensate for the years of freezing of the fee table, whose update was absolutely outraged. In short, we advocate a fair and adequate payment of fees and expenses for these professionals. We believe that actors who actually help justice — and whose importance as a fundamental pillar in our democratic system should not be underestimated — need good conditions so that we can all enjoy the proper functioning of this system. And this is not done without recovering the path of appreciation and dignity of these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u120	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues did not register.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the petitioners for bringing this issue to debate, which we accompany with two initiatives. The unprecedented health and social crisis we live in has made the weaknesses of the CPAS even more evident and its inability to respond to the problems of the beneficiaries. unlike other independent workers, lawyers, applicants and implementing agents did not benefit from financial support, including continuing to pay their contributions to the CPAS. The same CPAS that screams at the seven winds that are sustainable, which generates millions of profits, which has a large financial cushion, but which has not been able to access the requests — in some desperate cases — of its beneficiaries at this stage. But the problems of CPAS are, in fact, very much before the pandemic. In addition, the Coimbra Administrative and Prosecutor's Court has already considered the presumption of income applied by the CPAS by breach of the principle of equality, particularly in the area of contribution capacity. The current system is blind and demands too much of those who may not, leading even to the abandonment of the profession by whom it is unable to pay the contribution of 251 € monthly. For this reason, we have introduced a draft law, which aims to guarantee beneficiaries the possibility of choosing between CPAS and social security. A survey conducted by the Portuguese Association of Individual Practice Advocates, 500 associates, revealed that 55 % want to have the option of choosing between CPAS and social security and that only 0, 7 % intends to remain in the CPAS. OSAE (Order of Applicants and Implementing Agents) has already held this debate and the results demonstrate exactly the same. It should be pointed out that we are not here discussing the sustainability of the CPAS, but the will of its beneficiaries, and for that same reason these have to be heard in particular. In fact, CPAS does not exist to serve its own interests or the interests of some beneficiaries, CPAS exists to serve lawyers, applicants and implementing agents. That the pandemic context we live in does not serve as an excuse for not recognizing rights and strengthening the social protection of workers, until the struggle of professionals in this area is long. The Advocates' Order has incomprehensiblely protracted this debate, but Parliament must not do so, until this situation deigns justice and its professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u123	Mr Carlos Peixoto of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the record, I am a professional lawyer and I believe that this reinforces even more the legitimacy and authority to talk about this issue. Having said this, I think the idea that the CPAS did not support the beneficiaries in this pandemic context was installed. It's true. But, as someone has already said, it is not worth « knocking on the blind». CPAS has never even had that statutory goal. Hit the government first! They first beat the government, which did not take the protection of lawyers, applicants and enforcement agents by reducing their economic activity. The government turned its back on them, did not value them and, worse than that, even ridiculed them, increasing the reference unit of their fees in just eight cents. This isn't kidding, it's really serious! The judges were increased in the same year 10,000 times more, so they knew.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u126	It is different whether the CPAS should continue to be a pension and death allowance box or whether it should also have a assisting nature. And there are, as we know, three ideas on the table. The first idea is its extinction and integration into social security, the second idea is its coexistence or coexistence with social security, depending, let's say, on the beneficiary's option and the third idea is to keep everything as it is, without changes to the CPAS regulation. One thing is certain and no parliamentary group can ignore this evidence: unlike what happened in the past, today there are beneficiaries of this scheme, particularly lawyers, who cannot afford the monthly minimum contribution of 251, 38 € for the Safety Box and for them there must be answers. But there must also be answers for all those who want to know whether or not they will be entitled to a pension within a few years and whether or not they are entitled to a sickness benefit, in case they are sick, in fact, already established today by the insurance subcontracted by CPAS. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, having said this, I think it is good that we do not devilify the CPAS, as we should also not endow social security, that well of virtues that have the magic formula to solve all the problems! You don't! There are pros and cons in both systems. For example, in CPAS, the retirement age is 65 years, in social security, is 66, 7. In CPAS, the receipt of a pension for illness does not imply the reduction or suspension of activity, in social security. But instead, in social security, there is an instrument that all beneficiaries have, which is the State budget, which prevents their unsustainability and the CPAS cannot access it. In social security, the principle of proportionality between income and contributions is in force, while in CPAS it is an unacceptable and unacceptable principle, in which a lawyer, agent or applicant can receive €10 000 or €1000 and pay exactly the same. In any case, there are, in fact, no magic formulas and the paths that exist, if they are followed in a hurry, will not produce good results. We know that.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u127	We've been in this for six years!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u128	We understand that the beneficiaries of the CPAS must be fully informed and informed of the advantages and disadvantages of the various solutions ahead of them and this matter, today, is not yet properly addressed. Therefore, in such a sensitive area, I believe that these professionals cannot stand aside from this debate, as the Left Block suggests, for example. The Left Block gives priority to the autonomy of its legislative power, its own-initiative power—it is all right, there is no problem—but forgets the momentum of the class, which has already a referendum marked in a general assembly of lawyers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u129	Six years! Six years!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u130	Mr President, I do not know whether the Left Block wants to take a step longer than the leg. We are more prudent, because we are dealing with very sensitive and very sensitive questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u131	I know the prudence!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u132	Then there are those initiatives that appear to be democratic, but they are dangerous — attention, they are dangerous! — and that they leave the choice of each one to opt for the CPAS or social security, forgetting, as I said yesterday, that there is sufficient room for beneficiaries to opt for social security so that the sustainability and decapitalisation of the CPAS will be affected by this general ban. So we have to be very careful about what we're going to do. Then there is the PS, who comes with a bill, which, in essence, is forcing the government to do what the government should have done long ago, and which, in fact, promised, that it was exactly a commission to hear all entities, in order to resolve this issue. In political terms, we follow the initiative, even because it is in the direction of our project, it is exactly the same. It's just that our project is the right regiment figure. What you do, in legal-constitutional terms, is more than doubting, because what the PS is demonstrating here, proposing and starring is that we do what the doctrine calls « assembly government»,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u133	Stop doing that! Great can!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u134	... taking the risk between the division of powers of the Government and the Assembly of the Republic. So I conclude, Madam President, by saying the following: our proposal seems sensible to us, we want to find a way for the welfare system of these classes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u135	It's really about the end, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u136	... recognizing its relevance, but always in close cooperation with them and always preserving its acquired rights, that we will never accept that they are called into question. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u137	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Is it worthy of a rule of law that a professional ceases to exercise his profession because he is in chemotherapy treatments and his system does not give him a penny during that period? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u140	Is it worthy of a rule of law that a professional, whether father or mother, cannot fully dedicate himself to his child in the early days of life? No, it's not. Is it worthy of a rule of law that a professional is temporarily unemployed and is thrown into a situation of indifference by his own system? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u142	Is it worthy of a rule of law that a professional is obliged to discount at least EUR 251 and EUR 38 cents, even if nothing is received in that month? No, it's not. We discuss at this plenary session the present and future of more than 30,000 professionals in Portugal, who today need dignified answers that protect them in moments of greater vulnerability. And, therefore, we welcome the nearly 13,000 petitioners, who allow us to discuss and debate a social security system which, in deep obsolescence, makes sense as unworthy to many of those who must be part of it. Advocates, applicants and implementing agents shall, by obligation of the CPAS, set up in 1947 for the sole purpose of granting retirement pensions to their beneficiaries. Its social design, based on mandatory discounts that are not related to the revenues taken, with a minimum level of clearly high contributions, is deeply inadequate, especially for the younger ones. 74 years have passed since its creation and very little has been adapted. Proletarianization in these professions, especially in young people, requires an improved protection and security response. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The exercise of counsel, in practice individually in large numbers, imposes an integrated and more effective solution for those who perform it. The almost exclusive dedication of many lawyers to the law access system must be part of a new model that does not exclude them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u144	This is therefore a system that fails many of its beneficiaries across the line: failure in family projects, by preventing a true exercise of parenthood; failure in times of illness, by failing to provide support to those who are fundamentally unable to practice their profession; failure in contexts of unemployment, by not supporting those who cease to have activity. No, sir. Members, we are not having this debate in 1980. Today, thousands of professionals are delivered to their own fate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u145	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u146	In full pandemic, when the beneficiaries asked for help from their welfare system to cope with the breakdown of the activity, they received a hand full of nothing and nothing else. It was the intervention of this Parliament, with the contribution of the Socialist Party, which allowed to correct what the system refused to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a regime that does not comply with the rules and principles of a modern social state. It is a system of the old regime which, as it is, harms many and interests very few.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u148	We therefore need to give these thousands of professionals a system of social protection worthy of the rule of law in which we live. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents an initiative to allow for a broad and thoughtful reflection on the current framework of this system. However, unlike others, it creates a future path, involving all entities with responsibility in this area, which will ensure the feasibility of integrating these beneficiaries into social security or which, alternatively, builds a new regime that allows these professionals to provide social responses similar to those given by the public system to their beneficiaries: weighting, evaluation and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our Constitution of the Republic expressly provides in Article 63 ( 1 ). o, which all have the right to social security. Paragraph 2 of the same precept assigns the State the task of organizing, coordinating and subsidizing a unified social security system. It could always be said that access to social security is not restricted to lawyers. This, however, is a misleading argument, because it is not really possible to expect these professionals with less incomes that cumulatively break down into two systems. The social security system protects citizens in sickness, old age, disability, widowhood and orphanage, as well as unemployment and all other situations of lack or loss of livelihood or capacity for work. This is what Article 63 tells us. the Constitution. It thus imposes a minimum social protection for all citizens. That's not what happens at CPAS. There is no minimum social protection and its maximum is the possible right — I would say, even expectation — to a retirement pension. And Mr Peixoto actually exposed the system's fragility and acknowledged that private management is failing. We have recorded the ideological evolution of the PSD in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u149	Ideological? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u150	But, Mr President, we agree, the PSD does not have much legitimacy to speak about the sustainability of social security, when in the last few years when it has been in the government, it has at most decapitalized the public social security system and razed thousands of citizens, who need the public system at times of greatest vulnerability. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u151	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u152	But in a matter so sensitive to thousands of Portuguese people, Mr President, we have to speak the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u153	What truth? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u154	And Mr. Carlos Peixoto has a speech, there, from his bench, different from what his project says. The PSD wants everything to be the same, sir? We are in doubt, with your intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u155	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u156	The Socialist Party has led in our country the real social reforms that have sought to strengthen the protection and social rights of those who need it most. That is what we have done over the years and that is what we are now trying to do with lawyers, applicants and implementing agents. Social justice is not impugned, it is realized. That's what we're doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u157	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: With the serenity that I believe this subject is inviting and convening, I would like to point out that the first question here is whether or not we are facing a problem and what solutions we may have to deal with this problem. As to whether or not we are facing a problem, the first thing I would say is that it is obvious — and this has been mediated, it has been advertised and the whole country has seen — that there are situations that obviously deserve concern and are, to some extent, shocking, even if they should not be the subject of pure instrumentation. When we found that certain professionals covered by this Safety Box, whether they are lawyers or applicants, were exposed to situations of no kind of support or protection, it is obvious that this is unacceptable and is shocking, that is not what is at stake. It is important to know whether, in the system that is set up, the Safety Box, in its origin, in its formation, had this main objective of support or not. And the truth is that, knowing and looking at the institution, its main nature was not a support institution, i.e. its nature was not a social security institution, it worked essentially as being, in comparison, a pension fund, for which the associates would discount, so that, when the time of their reform, they would benefit from the same reform. This is what is at stake here, and this is something that has to be considered in some way. It would not be a PRP (reform saving plan), but the abuse of comparison, but in some ways it worked, in an absolutely autonomous system of the rest of social security and that it was even capitalisation, which was undergoing some changes. I would say that, for these amendments, there is something that no one should ignore and which seems, even by the precipitation of legislation or by the will of some of these professionals to take on the role of trade unionists, regardless of orders — and for some reason they are orders and not trade unions —...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u159	I'm not!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u160	He said « part of these professionals», Mrs Deputy! As I was saying, I would say that it is appropriate not to ignore what professionals want, that is, what lawyers and applicants want. What do they want? It is perhaps not irrelevant to make a decision on this matter and I would therefore say that no decision should be taken without knowing the latest consequences...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u161	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u162	... what is the will of lawyers and applicants. Secondly, there is a question which has already been raised here, and well, which is that of, on some projects that seem very generous — for example, I am thinking of the draft by the honourable Member not registered — in order to say that anyone who wants to go to one side and anyone who wants to go to the other side, we will understand what its consequence is, Mrs. And if they all start going one side and leaving the other, the consequence is that the sustainability of the system itself is clearly at risk.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u163	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u164	I would therefore say that it is necessary to think of a solution that will bring justice to legal professionals, who will think of the rights acquired, particularly those who, in many cases, have had years of shorthand and cannot be harmed, and that it is consensual. The projects they propose to study do not have our fundamental opposition,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u165	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u166	... as for the projects that propose to decide, without weighting and reflection, we will not be able to accompany them under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u167	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words are for, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, to welcome the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to these two petitions which we are now discussing and which, although they are two, aim, essentially, to integrate the case of lawyers and applicants into social security. In fact, as the petitioners point out, in the texts giving effect to the two petitions, this Safety Box does not provide support to its beneficiaries at the level of health and in situations of economic deficiency and still points to the lack of sustainability of the Counsel and Applicants' Prevention Box to deal with the care charges. Then it is recalled that, over time, its beneficiaries have been watching the extinction of acquired rights, from then on, the possibility of redemption and the legitimate expectation created with the amount to be taken up by pension, depending on the contribution career. Therefore, in a sentence, we can well say that the CPAS turned its back on its beneficiaries and not even during the pandemic we are living was able to show that it meets the purposes of its existence and even its assignments. Not even in time of pandemic! In addition, the contributions currently paid do not base the income actually taken by each of the beneficiaries, before, are based on a presumption of income, which is, in fact, of doubtful constitutionality, as already mentioned here today. On the other hand, the high annual reforms are not in line with the contribution career established by the current Regulation. And finally, but not least, it is necessary to ensure the sustainability and survival of those who have contributed and contributed to the defence of citizens' rights. In view of what is said, and to conclude, I would like to say that the Greens fully follow the concerns and purposes of the petitioners of the two petitions we are discussing and believe that at least the Government should make a thorough analysis of the future of the case of lawyers and solicitors. An analysis or reflection that can be made through the establishment of a committee for the eventual integration of the Advocates and Seekers' Safety Box into the social security system, as proposed by the Socialist Party and other political forces which point to identical solutions in their proposals, or through another mechanism or other instrument that definitely solves this problem, which is afraid to drag itself in time and which seriously threatens to lead to the collapse of the Advocates and Seekers' Safety Box itself, with all the consequences that this happens to everyone, in general, and in particular to their beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u169	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all realize that there is a problem, recognized, with the Lawyer and Applicants' Safety Box which, in fact, is based on a problem that is up to now, which is that of the current situation in the exercise of law in our country. Indeed, Mr Telmo Correia is right, when he says, as he said earlier, that the Law Box of Lawyers and Applicants was thought more as a pension fund than as a pension scheme itself, and working on a capitalisation basis, that is, lawyers could even choose the level of contributions they intended to make and would thus shape their own expectations for their future pension when they withdrew from the profession. What happens is that this system has clearly contradicted what is today the reality of the exercise of counsel, especially if we think of a younger generation of lawyers. Younger generation that has resulted in some massification of access to the profession, which is obviously also inseparable from something positive, which are the highest qualifications of the younger generation, and which makes today there are a large number of lawyers that we can say are false independent workers, that is, that being independent, because this is the nature of the profession, in fact, they are employed by larger offices or even companies. This is contrary to the concept that you have presided over the creation and existence of the Safety Box, i.e. a lawyer, as an independent worker, by definition, will never be unemployed, will have more or less customers, but is not unemployed, and hence there is no support in a situation of lack of income. There was a problem here because, for the younger generation of lawyers, this system actually contradicts those who are their life expectancy, with the difficulty that many have to pay the lowest level of contribution, which, for them, is very high, and with the absence of social protection in situations that naturally lack it. So here we have a problem and solutions to this problem have been scarce. We, over a year ago, asked a question to the government to know what the government thought of this. We addressed the same question to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. The answer the Ministry of Justice gave was that it had to be the professionals to say what they wanted, and the government did not decide before that ; the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, that, nor was it worthy of reply. Well, the professionals, as we have already seen, also clearly have a great difficulty speaking out. The Directorate of the Safety Box therefore advocates the existence of the Safety Box and alerts to the consequences of some initiatives which are here, in particular the possibility of choice, which it considers would irrefutablely question the sustainability of the Safety Box of Lawyers and Applicants, which the management considers to be secure. But, in fact, there is a problem here that needs to be solved and that seriously affects thousands of professionals, especially young lawyers. As for the solutions that are being proposed here, the Socialist Party proposes that a study group be set up, not only within the framework of the government, but with the participation of other entities, which is a path that we do not reject, and the Left Block goes ahead and takes a step towards even proposing integration into social security. And, as I said earlier, the Advocates' Order has, at this moment, the difficulty of convening a general assembly, for reasons we all understand, but I would say that the problem is not just that, the problem is that, before there is a pandemic...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u171	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u172	I conclude, Madam President. As I was saying, before there was a pandemic, this problem already existed and, in fact, at the level of lawyers and their Order, it has not been possible to trace a concrete proposal for a solution so far. We do not reject the initiatives that are proposed here, we believe that they deserve reflection and therefore, of course, both in relation to the Socialist Party's proposal, or in relation to the Left Block, we believe that none should be excluded and that one should continue to work seriously to find a just solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u173	Mr Manuel Azenha, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u174	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: at this stage of the debate, it is up to the Left Block to clarify three questions, which are, in fact, exposed to the motivation of the bill that we present. First: why do we propose the integration of CPAS into social security rather than the choice of the social protection regime by each lawyer, solicitor or implementing agent? For a very simple reason: this choice would in very short time lead to the decapitalisation and collapse of the CPAS, without the minimum guarantee that the rights constituted by those who contributed to it would be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u176	Integration into social security will therefore be the only way to guarantee the rights of all. Second, the integration of more than three tens of thousands of professionals does not overburden social security? The answer here is clear: the integration of these professionals is as beneficiaries, but also as contributors, so social security will be strengthened accordingly in its capacity to respond. Third and last question: does the integration of CPAS into social security not endanger the independence of lawyers, limiting their action against the State, when it is essential to defend the rights of others? No, don't. In fact, what limits the independence of these professionals is their social fragility,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u178	... is their deprotection, which pushes them to subtle and opaque conditions of dependence. Social protection does not diminish independence, it strengthens it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u180	It is concluded that the integration of CPAS into social security is the guarantee that the social rights of tens of thousands of people will be effectively respected, as should be in a democracy, without discrimination. This is the meaning of the left block project. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u181	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we conclude this debate, so we will turn to point 5 of our agenda, which is that of the assessment of Petition No 25 / XIV / 1. a (Sérgio Tavares da Silva et al.) — Diabetes : Extension of free access to PSCI devices (insulin pumps) for individuals aged 18 years, together with Resolution Projects Nos 764 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Sharing of insulin continuous subcutaneous infusion devices, 768 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Extension of free access to continuous subcutaneous infusion devices for insulin-bombs for individuals aged 18 years, 824 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Regulation of the sharing of insulin pumps and improvement of device placement and distribution procedures, and 830 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Regulation of the arrangements for the sharing of insulin continuous infusion devices with the Bill No 642 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Re accords the allocation of family allowance for children and young people under 24 years of age, in general, and also with Resolution Projects Nos 756 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the realization of a national register of type 1 and 838 / XIV / 2 diabetes. a ( PCP ) — By strengthening patient care with diabetes. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u182	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by welcoming the close to 11,000 petitioners, who essentially ask Parliament for two things: on the one hand, the sharing of insulin pumps for all diabetics who are recommended by medical teams and who are able to use these devices; and on the other hand, the sharing of different marks of insulin pumps, in order to allow better adjustment of the medical device to the patient. According to the Association Protecting Diabetics of Portugal ( APDP ), the insulin continuous subcutaneous infusion devices, the so-called insulin pumps, allow for better control of the disease and greater flexibility in the life of the person with diabetes, avoiding compliance with meals times, and even an adjustment for those working on shifts. They also allow the safety of the maximum insulin injection limit, which is not guaranteed with the current pens, which can lead to severe hypoglycaemia; they also allow a smaller number of injections into the body, because from the current 6 to 10 injections with pens, with insulin pumps it is only necessary to insert a catheter within 3 days; and, when connected to a continuous glucose reading system, they allow insulin to be suspended in case of hypoglycaemia and even in more innovative models the operation of the so-called " artificial pancreatic system". These devices are currently 100 % shared for children and young people up to 18 years of age and for pregnant women with diabetes. But in February 2020 it was approved the extension of freeness to adults with diabetes, with effect from 2021. However, the State budget for 2021 did not include the amount of this participation and, for this reason, the CDS-PP presented an amendment proposal. Sad and incomprehensible, the CDS proposal was rejected, with the votes against the Socialist Party and the abstention of the Social Democratic Party, despite the votes in favour of all the other parliamentary groups and single Members. Moreover, these are the parties that are once again presenting proposals which, of course, we will follow. I cannot fail to comment at this stage on the Socialist Party's draft resolution recommending the creation of a national register of diabetes 1. Of course, a national record can make every sense even though thanks to the APDP we warmly greet and to whom we thank the work it does, diabetes is actually one of the diseases most known in Portugal and in which it works best in terms of patient follow-up. But the PS says, in the explanatory statement, and I quote: « Therapeutic education, multidisciplinary monitoring, self-control and self-management are fundamental tools for those living with this disease ». So I think it is legitimate to ask the Socialist Party the following: if they are so concerned about the existence of tools for those living with diabetes, why did they vote against the CDS proposal in the State Budget for 2021? And even if the PS and the Government really care about the diabetics, why has it not been fulfilled what was already enacted in this regard in the State budget for 2020? But I also believe that we will know the answers to these questions immediately with the Socialist Party's sense of vote on these initiatives. In conclusion, I recall that, according to APDP, there are about 30,000 people who will benefit from this measure, and in the first phase it is expected to be around 10,000 beneficiaries. In view of the fact that the cost of each device, plus consumables, is around €400, the budgetary impact of this measure on the first stage of 100 % participation — which I repeat was expected to be 2021 — will be around EUR 4 million. Therefore, given the benefit that we see in this measure for so many people, given the commitment already established in the State Budget for 2021, and in view of the content of the budgetary impact, the CDS-PP recommends that the Government share 100 % of the devices for continuous subcutaneous infusion of insulin to all diabetics over 18 years of age, with an express clinical indication of its assistant physician.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u183	Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by congratulating the petitioners, the many petitioners, almost 11 000, who go to the Assembly of the Republic and say, in a very clear way, that the Left Block accompanies and supports the object of this petition and that is why we also propose a legislative initiative that goes exactly in the sense of what is claimed—and very well—by petitioners and petitioners. What is claimed, and which is also the subject of the left block legislative initiative, is that the participation of 100 % of these devices, better known as insulin pumps, is extended to all people with diabetes who have medical indication for the use of these devices. The same is to say that we want to guarantee full and free access to a therapy that is already known and that is effective, that improves quality of life, that reduces the complications associated with this disease and also, very important, increases the life years of people with diabetes. In 2016, as you know, it was on the initiative of the Left Block that the Assembly of the Republic approved the free availability of these insulin bombs to children and young people with type 1 diabetes. This recommendation by the Assembly of the Republic took effect: in 2017, these devices were made available to children up to 10 years of age in 2018, to children and young people up to 14 years of age in 2019, to young people up to 18 years of age. Therefore, in the Assembly of the Republic, we have a very recent history that allows us to say today that the free provision of this device, that the ease of access to this device has had very positive consequences. It increased the quality of life of these people: fewer bites, less daily injections, more insulin safety; improved the control of the disease, allowing a more stable blood glucose value, avoiding hypo and hyperglycaemia and thus also reducing the complications associated with diabetes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is not just because we all know that diabetes is, for example, the main reason for non-traumatic amputations in Portugal. It is one of the main reasons for blindness, in Portugal, has many associated complications, since kidney complications, heart complications, etc. Now, if we have today a device that is safe, effective, that allows control of the disease, that allows to avoid these complications, give more quality of life, give more years of life, and if it has already been proven that this was the best way, for example, for children and young people with type 1 diabetes until the age of 18, then I think the logical and consequent step to giving us now is to extend access to this therapy to all people with diabetes, who obviously have medical indication to access it. That is what we propose, and which has already been a state budget, for example in the State budget for 2020, but which has not been implemented. Therefore, since the urgency is now greater than it was one year ago when we put this proposal in the State Budget for 2020, and which has not been realized, the Left Block believes that the Assembly of the Republic should do what it did in 2016, which is the driving force for the realization of this change, be the driving force to ensure that these people have access to this therapy that is effective and that will greatly improve their quality of life.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u185	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Looking at numbers we know that 13% of the Portuguese population has diabetes, which represents more than one million people, while the prediabetics picture is estimated to reach the two million Portuguese. It is recalled that we refer to a disease that can generate very serious health complications, such as vision problems, circulation problems, kidney, heart problems and still healing problems, development of infections, ulcers, thrombosis, leading, in certain cases, even to the amputation of lower limbs. In fact, due to diabetes, it is estimated that more than 4000 Portuguese died annually, which are performed about 1500 amputations of the lower limbs and that more than 7000 cases of stroke (brain vascular accident) occur. It should be noted that the National Diabetes Programme defines a set of strategies and measures relating to the prevention and reduction of risk factors, diagnosis and screening of the disease, appropriate treatment and rehabilitation of patients. The care and variety of foods, the fight against sedentaryism and the awareness of people with diabetes are crucial to the control of the disease. In many cases, however, insulin administration is absolutely crucial. In Portugal, the use of continuous infusion devices for insulin administration to people with type 1 diabetes has enabled improved metabolic control. It happens that the costs associated with the acquisition of insulin pumps are high, becoming unbecoming to a very large part of the patients. And although the participations of insulin pumps by the SNS (National Health Service) have been extended in recent years, it is observed that the need to generalize this participation to more people who need the infusion system concerned. In this regard, proposals for amendments to the State budget for 2020 were adopted, including a Greens proposal on access to health care in the area of diabetes, which determined, inter alia, that the Government would promote the extension of the free provision of insulin continuous infusion therapy to people with type 1 diabetes over 18 years of age, with medical indication for this purpose. in this sense, The Greens have also presented, in this House, several legislative initiatives aimed at more effective action on better eating habits, of which are obvious benefits, especially at the level of primary prevention of diabetes. To illustrate, we highlight some Green initiatives, such as the proposal on the advertising of food for children, or the promotion of fruit at school bars and also the proposal on the sale of sugared foods, and with excess salt, in automatic sales machines. In addition to these, the Greens also presented a proposal on the participation of systems for monitoring and treatment of diabetes, which, it recalls, was approved unanimously. Nevertheless, the Greens believe that it is necessary to go further, by means of regulation, by implementing the extension of the free availability of insulin infusion therapy to persons with type 1 diabetes in order to cover those over 18 years of age, provided that they meet the necessary requirements, as was also approved in the State Budget for 2020, as well as by introducing improvements in the procedures for the placement and availability of devices, in order to streamline and optimize the processes. These are the objectives which are intended with the legislative initiative which The Greens are now presenting for discussion and which, in our view, meet the claims expressed in the petition that calls for the extension of free access to continuous infusion devices of insulin and whose petitioners are taking advantage of to greet, on behalf of the Greens Parliamentary Group, and in particular the petitioners who are with us today accompanying the work. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u187	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u188	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Let us begin by welcoming the almost 11,000 petitioners with whom we have obviously shared the concerns and therefore bring an initiative to the debate, thanking them for the initiative they had to bring to this House. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, without cure for diabetes, it is the duty of the State to guarantee these users access to mechanisms that improve their quality of life and minimize potential associated risks. The weight of these risks cannot be ignored nor the prevalence data of diabetes that in Portugal affects more than one million people, to which more than two million prediabetics are added. Annually, more than 4000 people die from diabetes in Portugal, more than 7000 cases of stroke occur and approximately 1500 amputations are performed. In addition to these already mentioned data, it is important, ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us bear in mind those who are the problems associated with inadequate control of this disease, already mentioned here, such as the possibility of blindness, kidney problems, neuropathy, increased wound healing time, ulcers, among many others. These consequences are not only physical but also emotional, labor, economic and social, and we cannot forget them. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also not forget what the management of this disease requires on a daily basis, such as the fact that daily, and several times a day, has to check the value of glucose in the blood by pressing the fingers. It is not difficult to understand the implications that this day-to-day management has on people's personal and work lives, as well as the consequences of poorly controlled episodes of diabetes. Therefore, it does not make sense that, in the transition to adulthood, people with type 1 diabetes are no longer supported by the State in access to the subcutaneous infusion device of insulin. Let us also bear in mind the numerous advantages associated with this device: contrary to the current pens these pumps allow for safety at the maximum injection insulin limit which is essential to prevent vertiginous drop in blood sugar rates or even death as a consequence. There are several reasons why we bring this project here, and basically we repeat and insist on a proposal that we presented at the State Budget headquarters that aims to free access to continuous insulin infusion devices for all over 18 years of age with type 1 diabetes. In addition, it is important to ensure that the participation of these devices is articulated between users and clinicians, which covers the inclusion of different device brands, in order to allow better user adjustment, and also facilitate the process of acquiring these mechanisms and their availability in community pharmacies. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenge we are launching is that the Assembly of the Republic may be next to all those who need an increase in safety and quality of life. Obviously, we are also here reducing potential health costs, as well as reducing social inequalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u189	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u190	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the best disease is the one you don't have, the second best will be the one that doesn't weigh on the life of those who suffer from it and their families. The proposal presented by the Liberal Initiative today aims to reduce exactly the weight that diabetes has in the lives of many Portuguese people and is related to the disability bonus of family allowance, which has the particularity of being attributed regardless of the disability in question is, or is not, an incapacitating disability. In 2019, the disability bonus for family allowance was attributed to children and young people up to 24 years of age and was assigned only until 10 years of age. According to the Association Protection of Diabetics of Portugal, this amendment was made without any notice, discussion or even justification. What is proposed here today is that children and young people with disabilities, incapacitating or incapacitating, such as diabetes, may again benefit from this bonus, because this will help the families benefiting to make the lives of these children and young people more like those of others and to face the difficulties that never cease, magically, when these children perfect 11 years. As for the other proposals, they also aim to alleviate the weight that diabetes can have in the lives of patients. The participation of medical devices, the training for the use of these devices, or the registration that allows us to know the numbers of this disease help a holistic approach to this pathology. Like the proposal of the Liberal Initiative, some of the proposals from other parties have already been presented at the state budget. We hope this House will approve these proposals and make diabetes more and less weigh on the lives of so many families.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u191	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Correia of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, seven projects of fundamental themes are under discussion, for an adequate response to the needs of people with diabetes, their families and caregivers, the scientific community and health professionals in this area. Allow me to welcome the more than 10 000 subscribers of the petition by extending free access to subcutaneous insulin infusion devices, i.e. insulin pumps. I also greet the more than 4000 petition subscribers « How many are we with type 1 diabetes? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Type 1 diabetes is a chronic disease characterized by insulin deficiency. The disease may affect people of any age, but it usually occurs in young children or adults. In most patients, the causes of this disease are unknown. Insulin therapy is vital for people with type 1 diabetes. Therefore, it is very important to know exactly the prevalence and incidence of type 1 diabetes in Portugal. The PS presents a draft resolution that recommends the implementation of an updated national registry, integrated in clinical practice, for knowledge of the prevalence of type 1 diabetes, which allows the acquisition of more and better scientific knowledge about the real dimension of diabetes and that allows critical thinking for a better definition of health policies related to the disease. People with diabetes require support in different areas: prevention, treatment, rehabilitation and the quality of care for people with diabetes. The Government of the Socialist Party has taken measures to ensure that all people with diabetes have access to the necessary care, protection and well-being. We understand what the benefits of continuous insulin infusion devices are for patients. We saw: by 2016, 100 new insulin pumps were distributed free of charge to users over 5 years old, 30 devices to pregnant women and insulin pumps were allocated to all children up to 5 years old. The November 2016 office also allowed progressive access to treatment with insulin pumps for all eligible population up to 18 years by the end of 2019. While by the end of 2015 1311 people were registered under this program in 2019, there were 3070 registered persons. During 2020, a procedure for the acquisition of insulin pump devices was opened so that progressively it is possible to extend coverage to the entire eligible population over the coming years. An update of the care plan to the new needs has been prepared that will allow the improvement of this process, while maintaining the necessary rigour. In 2020, at the request of the Ministry of Health, a survey of the needs of equipment and human resources was also developed to improve and extend the tracking of diabetic retinopathy to regional health administrations. The consultation of eye diabetes/diabetic retinopathy already exists and is where the patients identified in the population-based screenings are referred to. The tasks of these devices involve monitoring by specialized teams and a training and previous education process for users and families. It was not the constraints of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 that an increase in the overall capacity to integrate new users was expected due to an increase in the number of devices to be placed by dedicated teams in their respective treatment centres. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers that the majority of the proposals presented here are in line with the strategies provided for in the National Programme for Diabetes, which have already been adopted as part of the State budget for 2020. We consider it important to continue this path of improving diabetes management, its risk factors and access equity. This is a realistic path that, gradually and not neglecting the safety of patients, can reach, as soon as possible, the participation of insulin pumps to all eligible people with type 1 diabetes and the provision of quality care to the person with diabetes. Thus, the Government of the Socialist Party and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will be able to continue this path that they have taken, which is a commitment to improving Portuguese health care. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u193	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u194	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, first of all, to greet the more than 10 800 petitioners, in particular those present at the benches. Faced with the unjustified impossibility of people with diabetes to participate in innovative therapy, such as the system of continuous infusion of insulin, petitioners have asked the Assembly of the Republic to legislate in order to recognize this participation, from the outset for the benefits and gains for the control of the disease and for the prevention of complications in the person with diabetes, but also because people with type 1 diabetes inevitably have insulin therapy, either by multiple insulin administrations, daily, either by subcutaneous insulin infusion devices, which are commonly referred to as ‘insulin pumps’. It understands the PCP that the National Health Service should put at the service of these people all and the most advanced technological means that can respond to their needs. In the case of insulin pumps it is therefore the most basic justice that extends its access to all people with diabetes, regardless of age, who have this recommendation from health teams. If, today, people with diabetes, aged 18, face great difficulties in accessing insulin pump therapy, it is only and exclusively because the government does not want to comply. I must remember, ladies. Members, who the State Budget Act for 2020, also by proposal to amend the CFP, in Article 266 thereof. it has been dedicated the extension of the 100 % participation regime to the continuous infusion system of insulin to all users eligible for treatment, registered on the DGS platform ( Directorate-General for Health ). More, sirs. Members, it was also determined in the State budget for 2020 that during that year the Government would promote the extension of the provision of this medical device to persons with type 1 diabetes over 18 years of age. That is, for the PCP, people with diabetes who have criteria and indications to be treated using the insulin pump already have that right. Thus, the Government must enforce that right, which is why we will follow the projects that are going to do so. We believe, however, that we must respond to other concerns and other problems faced by people with diabetes — access to the insulin bomb is not the only problem — it is only one more problem. in this sense, we present a draft resolution that responds to the new requirements that apply to users of insulin pumps, such as the prevention and treatment of diabetic retinopathy and diabetic foot. We propose that a specific training plan be developed for the placement of insulin pumps for all multidisciplinary teams of diabetes in adults. People over 18 now have the right to insulin pumps, but they go through adult diabetes consultation, finding that the professionals of these consultations lack training, training in the placement of insulin pumps. With regard to diabetic retinopathy, this is the most frequent complication in people with diabetes and is the main cause of avoidable blindness, in the population between 20 and 64 years of age. The available data point to the fact that half of people with diabetes have never gone to an ophthalmology or orthoptic consultation. Therefore, we propose that the Government undertake the lifting of equipment and professionals necessary for the systematic diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy. Yes, it already exists, but it's insufficient. The Government should also implement, with urgency and on a local basis, at the level of CSAs (health centres groupings) and local health units, a systematic screening and screening program for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy. It already exists, but it is insufficient. You must create the eye diabetes consultation, which already exists, but it is absolutely insufficient, Mrs. As for diabetic foot, it is another complication with a high prevalence in the person with diabetes, being responsible for 70% of the non-traumatic amputations of the lower limbs. In the case of diabetic foot, its systematic screening and the implementation of foot protective measures are fundamental, leading to a sharp decrease in lower limb amputation and obvious gains in health and quality of life. Therefore, we also propose to the Government that the equipment and professionals needed for the systematic screening and screening of the diabetic foot be removed. This already exists, but it is absolutely insufficient. The government must also implement, on a local basis and at the level of health centres and local health units groups, a systematic screening and screening program for diabetic foot treatment, as well as make available, in each health centers group and in local health units, at least one podologist. It is almost unacceptable that today we cannot have access to a podologist, who is fundamental to treating the diabetic foot, to prevent the consequences of the disease, in particular by linking with the other multidisciplinary team of diabetes. People with diabetes can count on PCP in defending and protecting their health! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u195	Mr Rui Cristina of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We discussed Petition No 25 / XIV / 1. by which 11 000 Portuguese citizens — who have already taken advantage of to greet — request the extension of free access to insulin pumps for individuals over 18 years of age. This is a fair claim, which is not new and which should have already been achieved by the government. It is a fair claim because such insulin pumps are an essential tool to improve the quality of life of people with diabetes, also controlling this disease and drastically minimizing its risks. We must not forget that in our country alone there are about 1, 2 million people with diabetes, of whom about 4000 die every year because of this disease. It is also a pretense that it is no longer new, since in recent years it has been the subject of several parliamentary initiatives, including the PSD. It should also be noted that the 2020 State budget itself provided for in Article 266. the, that the Government should define the conditions necessary for the extension of the participation to the continuous infusion system of insulin to people with type 1 diabetes, older than 18 years of age, who had medical indication to use the device and knew how to do so. This rule was adopted throughout Parliament, with the exception of the Members of the Socialist Party, who voted against. Thus, it was the year 2020 and the fact is that the Government of the Socialist Party, despite the law forcing it to define the conditions of access to insulin bombs for individuals with diabetes and aged 18 or older, did not do anything. by not legislating, the Socialist Party has demonstrated well the lack of respect it has for the laws, when it disagrees with them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious matter. Seriously! The Social Democratic Party, as you know, is not government. We cannot, therefore, replace those who were obliged to legislate but resolved not to do so, thus showing no concern for the fate of thousands of diabetic patients. For our part — the Democratic Social Party — we will continue to denounce this scandalous omission by the Government and demand that it fulfil its duty, not only by implementing the various recommendations which the Assembly of the Republic has already approved in the field of prevention and fight against diabetes but also, in particular, by extending access to insulin bombs for more than 18 years, thereby ending unjustified discrimination, which has already lasted longer. I would also like to remind you that one of the recommendations mentioned above has been presented by the PSD Parliamentary Group as early as 2015, in which an integrated management of diabetes was recommended to reduce the incidence, delay the onset of complications and decrease the morbidity and mortality caused by this disease. I cannot finish my speech without welcoming the Protective Association of Diabetics of Portugal, the oldest association of diabetics in the world, created in 1926 for its remarkable work in behalf of diabetic patients. This association of the social sector, which supports more than 30,000 people and provides care and information in the area of diabetes to almost 400 patients per day, including the most serious cases of this disease, deserves our respect and praise. An association such as the Protective Association of Diabetics of Portugal is also an example for those who, sectarianly and exclusively, only see the State, only want the State and do not perceive the relevance that the social sector has in the area of health and the importance of its support to so many thousands of Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u198	We have reached the end of this debate. Let us turn to the sixth item on the agenda, on which the vote on the Rules of Procedure is based. Let us wait a few seconds for parliamentary groups and Members to prepare themselves. [[Pause.]] Let's start with the Vote Project No. 423 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — A pity for Ukrainian citizen Ihor Homeniuk. Mr. Secretary of Bureau Nelson Peralta will read the deliberative part, which came from 1. the Commission. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the deliberative part of the draft vote of regret by Ukrainian citizen Ihor Homeniuk is of the following content: « The Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret over the deplorable circumstances in which the death of citizen Ihor Homeniuk, while he was in the custody of the Portuguese State, and presents to his wife, children, father, sister, friends and colleagues his most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u200	We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the vote we have just taken, we will keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Let's vote for Resolution Project No 800 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Granting of National Pantheon honors to José Maria Eça de Queiroz. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 606 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Approves the legal regime of declassification of contracts or other documents which compromise the State or other entities within the budgetary perimeter in key sectors. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PCP and ENP abstentions.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 634 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Approves a legal regime for the transparency of contracts, agreements and other documents relating to operations determining the use or availability of public funds for entities belonging to strategic sectors. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PCP and ENP abstentions.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 571 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extends the protection granted by the social benefit for inclusion ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017 of 6 October ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 545 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Improves the conditions of access of persons with disabilities to social benefits for inclusion. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL and votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 623 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Improvement of conditions for access to social benefits for inclusion and increase of the value of accumulation of the basic component with labour income ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017 of 6 October ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 629 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Increased basic component of social benefit for inclusion. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 839 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — By complying with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 201 / 2019, in order to prepare a study on how the benefits of Law No 3 / 2009 of 13 January could be attributed to the former local recruiters without contributing career records. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 181 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Regulates the lobbying activity and establishes a register of transparency and a mechanism of legislative footprint ( makes the first amendment to Organic Law No 4 / 2019 of 13 September and the fourth amendment to Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ). [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL were adopted, against the PSD, BE, the PCP, the PEV and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 30 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Regulates the activity of professional representation of interests ( lobbying ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the IL and the PSD Members Alexandre Poço, Duarte Marques, Margarida Balsairo Lopes and Sofia Matos,votes against the PSD, BE, PCP, PEV and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the non-registered deputy Cristina Rodrigues.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 253 / XIV / 1 is followed. a ( PS ) — Approves transparency rules for private entities performing legitimate representation of interests with public entities and establishes a transparency register for representation of interests. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the IL and the PSD Members Alexandre Poço, Duarte Marques, Margarida Balsairo Lopes and Sofia Matos,votes against the PSD, BE, PCP, PEV and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the non-registered deputy Cristina Rodrigues.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u201	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u202	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u203	Madam President, to announce the delivery of a joint statement of vote, my own, by Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes and Mrs Sofia Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u204	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will now vote for draft resolution No 533 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Evaluation of the 1990 Ortographic Agreement. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and BE and votes against the PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[Pause.]] We now have to vote on five requests for discharge to the committee. I wonder if we can vote for them together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u205	There are seven, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u206	We only have five, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u207	Mr President, according to the information we have, there are lower requirements to the committee for Bill No 614 / XIV / 2. a, to the Resolution Project No 829 / XIV / 2. a, to Bill No 612 / XIV / 2. a, to Bill No 637 / XIV / 2. a and to Resolution Projects Nos 642 / XIV / 2. a, 735 / XIV / 2. a e 818 / XIV / 2. a, all of them in the same terms.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u208	Mr Member, in my script there are no requirements for draft resolution No 642 / XIV / 2. a and the Resolution Project No 735 / XIV / 2. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u209	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u210	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u211	Madam President, for a time we do not require the committee to be discharged without a vote of draft resolution No 642 / XIV / 2. a, but we do it now orally.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u212	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In fact, the Bureau did not have that information. As regards draft resolution No 735 / XIV / 2. the Member of Parliament not registered Cristina Rodrigues also indicated the intention to submit a request in the same sense. So, Mr. João Oliveira, you are right. In fact, there are seven requirements, but the Bureau only indicated five. So we're all right. We shall then proceed to the vote of the seven requests, submitted by the respective authors of the initiatives, to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote of 60 days from the Bill No 614 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Integration of the Safety Box of Lawyers and Social Security Applicants, of the Resolution Project No 829 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare and submit to the Assembly a study on the feasibility of the integration of the Law Box of Advocates and Advocates in Social Security, of the Bill No 612 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Guarantees lawyers, applicants and implementing agents the possibility of choosing the system of contributions between CPAS and Social Security, of Bill No 637 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Establishment of a committee for the possible integration of the Advocates and Applicants' Safety Box ( CPAS) into the general social security regime of the draft resolution No 642 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure that lawyers, trainees and applicants receive fair and fair remuneration for the services they provide under legal protection under the draft resolution No 735 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government that dialogue with the CPAS, the Order of Lawyers and the Order of Applicants and Executive Agents in the framework of setting the factor of correction of the contribution indexer to 2021 and the Resolution Project No 818 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government ensure that reflection and weighting on the possibility of integrating the Advocates'Prevention Box ( CPAS) into social security, to be equated by the Government, is necessarily done in close liaison with CPAS, the Advocates'Order and the Order of Applicants and Implementing Agents. [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We then vote in general on Resolution No. 764 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Sharing of insulin continuous subcutaneous infusion devices. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] The draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 768 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Extension of free access to continuous subcutaneous infusion devices of insulin-bombs of insulin- for individuals over 18 years of age. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] The draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 824 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a (PV) — Regulation of the participation of insulin pumps and improvement of the procedures for the placement and distribution of devices. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. We shall now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 830 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Regulation of the arrangements for the sharing of insulin continuous infusion devices. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The draft resolution is also down to 9. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 642 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Reassigns the allowance for disabled children and young people under the age of 24 years. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 756 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of a national type 1 diabetes registry. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. We then vote in general on Resolution Project No 838 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By strengthening patient care with diabetes. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The draft resolution is also down to 9. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 794 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Environmental assessment and major conditions for research, exploration and exploitation of mineral deposits. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We shall now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 816 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government conduct a strategic environmental assessment for mining. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on the Bill No. 15 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Amendment is made to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November - By the elimination of taxation, at the IRS headquarters, on compensation and subsidies taken by Portuguese firefighters in the provision of voluntary service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstentions.]] The general vote of Bill No. 413 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensure fair treatment for volunteer firefighters ( Amended Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, Decree-Law No 87 / 2019 of 2 July, and Decree-Law No 55 / 2006 of 15 March ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We then vote in general on Bill No. 403 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Change the regime of the special nursing career, in order to ensure pay positions and career progressions more fair and consistent with the recognition that nursing professionals deserve. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 405 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Decree-Law No. 71 / 2019 of May 27, in order to ensure a fairer transition to the category of specialist nurse by nurses who have performed or perform leadership or head. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 406 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consideration of all points for the purposes of defrosting careers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We shall now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 407 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Identification of nursing career ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 71 / 2019 of 27 May, third amendment to Decree-Law No 247 / 2009 of 22 September, and third amendment to Decree-Law No 248 / 2009 of 22 September ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u213	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u214	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u215	Madam President, with regard to the vote on this bill, Mrs Paula Santos will make an oral statement on behalf of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u216	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The oral vote shall be taken at the end of the sitting. The general vote of Bill No. 447 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alter the regime of the special nursing career, as well as the nursing career regime in public business entities and health partnerships( 3 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 247 / 2009 of 22 September and 3. the amendment to Decree-Law No 248 / 2009 of 22 September ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 516 / XIV / 1. a (PA) — For the valorization and dignity of nurses in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the BE PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u217	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u218	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u219	Madam President, with regard to the vote on these initiatives on nursing career, I would like to write to Mr. Moisés Ferreira to make a statement of vote at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u220	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions No 620 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government establish September 25 as the National Sustainability Day, 621 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — I set up September 25 as the National Sustainability Day and 670 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Institution of the National Sustainability Day on 25 September. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE and PAN.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 759 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Resumption of sport practice and gradual normalization of competitions and 783 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Recommends to the Government measures to resume sports practice in the context of pandemics. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on draft resolutions Nos 741 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government create appropriate conditions for the entry of binational couples into Portugal, 774 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government establish measures to ensure that non-bianated couples are excluded from travel restrictions to Portugal and 812 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — recommends that the Government set up measures to ensure the possibility of regrouping families and couples of different nationalities. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We therefore conclude today's votes. [[Pause.]] The Bureau registered the PCP for an oral vote on the vote on Bill No 407 / XIV / 1. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, such is permitted only when final global votes are taken. In any event, if the House agrees, Mrs Paula Santos will make the statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u221	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u222	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u223	Madam President, I would just like to pay attention to this: the explanations of vote take place in respect of all the votes that put an end to the legislative procedure, either in the case of global final votes or in the case of votes that reject initiatives at other times, as is the case with this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u224	Mr President, that is not the information available to the Bureau. Nevertheless, as I said recently, there is no opposition from any parliamentary group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor to make that statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u225	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: An opportunity has been lost to resolve the injustices resulting from the nursing career imposed on nurses and the non-consideration of all points for the purposes of career progression. PS, PSD, CDS and the Liberal Initiative have prevented all points from being counted for career progression by rejecting PCP proposals. PS, PSD, CDS and Liberal Initiative prevented all nurses holding the title of specialist from moving to the category of specialist nurse. PS, PSD, CDS and Liberal Initiative prevented the elimination of quotas for the category of specialist nurse. Again, the convergence between right-wing political parties prevented the valorization and dignity of nursing careers and nurses. There is no lack and no lack of bacoc speech directed at health professionals, but without any meaning because, when confronted with concrete proposals in order to strengthen the rights of nurses, to effectively value and recognize their professional performance and to ensure better working conditions, what do these parties do? They prevent nurses from seeing their valued career. Nurses have told us they don't need applause. Nurses need to have their rights strengthened. Nurses need better working conditions and their valued careers, as well as their salaries. Nurses need to be considered every year effectively worked and to be able to make progress in the career. Nurses need to have a career progression perspective and not be prevented from making progress because there are administrative quotas that are imposed. When it is concerned to take an option for defending and valuing workers' rights, in this case nurses who have been daily to ensure health care and to face an epidemic, PS, PSD, CDS and Liberal Initiative always converge to prevent these advances.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u226	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u227	I will finish, Madam President. The PCP does not give up, the PCP does not lower its arms or confine itself. The PCP is here and will be to intervene and fight for the effective valorization of nurses' careers and salaries and for the guarantee of care in the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u228	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u229	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the country has already spent the tenth month of the pandemic and certainly in these 10 months there have been no lack of recognition to health professionals, some of them coming, even from the Socialist Party, the PSD, the CDS, the Liberal Initiative. But these words, in fact, are to deceive professionals and that is what we came here to highlight. We have no doubt that health professionals are indispensable to the country. We have no doubt in the Left Block that health professionals are even more essential in a time of pandemic. We also have no doubt that if they are essential, and if we recognize this, then another reason to ensure that health professionals, particularly nurses and nurses, should have a worthy career, a career whose importance is recognized, a career that pays them as they deserve. That's not enough words! Indeed, the Socialist Party, the PSD, the CDS and the Liberal Initiative, which are sometimes very generous in words, see that they are very strong, then, when it comes to making concrete changes in the career of these professionals. The Left Block proposed very simple things from the point of view of recognition of these professionals, very logical things such as, for example: that no time of service should be erased; that all the time of service of these professionals should be raised to career progression; that all nurses who are specialists should be in the category of specialist nurses; that there should be no obstacles to career progression, which were placed in the last revision. These are all things that health professionals valued, especially nurses. Because it was the PS, PSD, CDS and the Liberal Initiative that prevented this from happening and dropped all these proposals, one behind the other.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u230	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u231	I conclude, Madam President. It is true that they deserve palms, but not only palms; it is true that they deserve words, but not just words; and it is also true that there are many words that are said to be only to deceive professionals because they are mere hypocrisy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u232	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary Nelson Peralta is now going to look after the Members. Members who were present by video conference. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u233	Madam President, I am announcing the ladies and gentlemen. Members who were present by video conference at this plenary session: of the PSD Parliamentary Group, were present Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa and Mr Sérgio Marques, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira. Mr Norberto Patinho, from the PS, and the Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy were also present for other reasons. Mr André Coelho Lima and José Silvano, PSD. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-15.u234	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It is also necessary to indicate the agenda for our next plenary meeting, which will be held on Tuesday, 19th at 3 p.m. on the agenda, there is only one point, which is the debate on general policy, with the presence of the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. I wish everyone a good rest of the day and a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 38 minutes.]]
