ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let's start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the galleries to be opened. Before we begin the first item on the agenda, Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo will do her best to account for the usual information.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, I inform the House that the Constitutional Review Project 5 / XIV / 2 has been withdrawn. a — A new Constitution for the 21st Century ( IL). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u3	The agenda for today has, as a first point, the joint discussion, in general, of Bill No. 691 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the protection of the insured person by prohibiting discriminatory practices, improving access to credit and insurance contracts by people who have surpassed aggravated health risks, confiscating the right to forget, and 826 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recognizes the right to forget about persons who have overcome aggravated health situations and guarantees them equal rights and non-discrimination under credit and insurance contracts by making the first amendment to Law No 46 / 2006 of 28 August. To present the PS bill, Mr. Miguel Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all know someone who lost his life in the fight against cancer. More and more, we know who, happily, has overcome this struggle and who today faces it with hope. And increasingly, these heroes can continue their lives, without being defined by the disease, but by their dreams and ambition. I want to live in a country where these dreams take place, that ambition. I want to live in a country where anyone who fights the disease is supported. I want to live in a country where those who overcome the disease are not convicted, penalized, or conditioned. It's a country of respect. It's a country of freedom. It's a country we can build. And that is what we propose with this bill, with this right to forget. We do not propose this task alone. It is worth thanking the Accreditation Association, Rita Merenda and so many activists who fought for this cause. They are survivors, families and friends, who only want to be treated by whom they are, on equal terms, with respect. We owe it to them, and we owe it to ourselves as a society. It is a decency that takes place in one of the most fundamental rights: housing. If buying home is already for the majority a complicated process, being for some even impossible, for those who have won cancer, it is an added challenge, because they make their past a supposed risk condition, which makes them refused insurance policies or increase their premium. As a result: either the bank does not lend or the house is unsustainable. This is blatant discrimination, but worse, it is senseless discrimination. There is the stigma that having had cancer is a risk condition, so it has increased costs. But if it is true that insurers have the right to analyze the risk they are accepting, it is also true that those who are already cancer-free should not be discriminated against, nor judged, by the level of risk of their past, which does not result in a risk in their present or future. And those who say cancer say other diseases, whose treatment is proven to be able to limit, significantly and lastingly, its effects, and which, therefore, are also covered by this bill. It is a situation that is not exclusive of Portugal, but which has a solution: the right to forget. It is a solution with evidence given, being adopted in France a few years ago and recently internationalised for Luxembourg, Belgium and the Netherlands. Defending the right to forgetfulness is defending the social dignity of the Portuguese and Portuguese who bravely faced and defeated a cancer. Wanting to profit from this battle is unworthy. Some will come to talk about the costs that this forgetfulness will entail. Others will talk about free markets, as if they could exist without rules. What we propose is this: just and consistent rules based on an agreement between the State, the financial sector and the representatives of cancer patients, disabled people and health system users. We propose an agreement extended to all—to all users and the entire financial sector—and which, in its absence, continues in the same way as a decree-law. And, if there are costs, they will be shared across the financial sector. The purpose is simple: we cannot allow those who have overcome the disease years later to be subject to higher prices or exclusions of guarantees. To this end, we must ensure that credit institutions and insurers do not collect or store information on risks beyond them. It will, of course, be up to science to say when, for each disease, it is fair to say that the risk is exceeded. But, like other countries, this forgetfulness cannot in any case take more than 10 years or 5 years in the case of the disease up to 21 years. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all recognize the heroic battle that so many people are fighting against oncological disease. It is time to acknowledge that whoever wins this battle — the 350 000 survivors of cancer in Portugal — has the right to buy home, ask for credit or hire insurance without being discriminated against. It is time to establish the right to forget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u5	To present the draft law of the NAP, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The President of the European Commission said well that « in 2020, while we were all fighting COVID-19, many of us were engaged in a silent struggle: the fight against cancer ». in a strong European Union on health, policies relating to this fight should become a common political priority. Surviving cancer is, in itself, a tough battle, either on an individual or a family level, and it becomes even more difficult because of social and legislative obstacles that make it difficult to return to normal life. Despite the recommendations contained in the European Action Plan on the promotion of inclusive employment and access to financial services for these people, discrimination, inequality and stigma continue to fall on those who have survived this disease. In access to employment, credit — particularly housing — to life and health insurance, other products and social responses, survivors are conditioned, depending on the requirement of clinical history related to cancer. Even after the cure, there are many financial institutions that continue to limit or aggravate the access of people with a clinical history of cancer, preventing or placing them in conditions of enormous inequality, in view of the need to obtain loans or other financial products. Even a person who has suffered from childhood cancer and has successfully overcome the disease, in the light of our current legislation, will face situations of discrimination in adult life. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is estimated at 12 million people who survive cancer in Europe. of these, 300 000 are children. In Portugal, approximately 400 new cases of paediatric cancer are diagnosed annually. A Portuguese child with cancer, even if he passes through this process without sequelae and even has no memory of having been ill, will be an adult with this obstacle simply because his country has no legislation but to protect him from this discrimination and social inequality in the future. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, one of the greatest needs of cancer survivors is to see the so-called 'right to forget' recognised in our legislation. France was the first country to create in 2016 a regime of right to forget for cancer survivors and other pathologies. In 2020 and 2021, three other European Union countries — Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands — created a similar regime. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, our Constitution states that "all citizens have the same social dignity and are equal before the law" and Law No. 46 / 2006 of 28 August prohibits and imposes discrimination on account of the existence of an aggravated risk of health, recognizing as discriminatory the refusal or conditioning of sale, lease, access to housing credit, or insurance contracts. Obviously, these principles should apply in the case of survivors of cancer or other diseases in order to protect people from this discrimination. But for that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to take a legislative course. The NAP therefore brings a bill, challenging the Assembly of the Republic to enshrine the rights of people who have overcome cancer, making Portugal the fifth country of the European Union implement the regime of the right to forgetfulness and thereby putting an end to these social and economic inequalities that affect the lives of people who survive cancer in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u7	The Bureau does not have requests for intervention. I assume that we can finish the debate and move on to the conclusion of this point. [[Pause.]] Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, is a member of an intervention. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is certainly still much to do until we have a country that respects the rights of patients, in particular of cancer patients. And there is certainly much to do to respect and guarantee the right of all to housing and, in particular, to cancer patients. But this right is not guaranteed only by promoting access to credit. We will not have equality, we will not have the end of discrimination, as fundamental rights, depend on the financial system in order to be assured. Still, the discrimination that exists today is unacceptable. That is why I would like to congratulate the Socialist Party on the bill that it presents here and that we will approve without any reservation, because we think it is obviously a legislative step that is important to take and which can even open the door to end other injustices and discriminations that exist in the insurance activity. I also want to take the opportunity to greet the cancer survivors for their struggle and also for the stigma they have faced. There is a very particular issue, which, I think, may be debated in the field of discussion in the specialty — having the Block already guaranteed that it will generally approve these draft laws — and that some people have even sent us by e-mail with regard to the use of the term 'therapeutic success' and to whom it is included and excluded from this new legislation. The expression and the way projects are developed makes chronic diseases—which often also represent success cases, because chronic diseases are today diseases with which people can live throughout their lives, without having any impact on the risk that insurers evaluate—stay out of these projects. If there is an opening so that we can extend the scope of the project, I think it will be beneficial to all. But from now on, I leave here the generic agreement of the Left Block with the bill presented. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u9	We still don't have any inscriptions. Are we going to close the debate? [[Pause.]] The Bureau informs me that it has just signed up to speak to Mr Alexandre Poço of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to sign up, we can't be with these waste periods. Mr Alexandre Poço of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I should like to begin by welcoming the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party and the NAP for the projects that bring us here today. This is one of the most sensitive subjects that we can discuss in a decent society: the way we treat cancer patients, the way we treat chronic patients, the way we treat, above all, the way we treat those who have gone through a difficult situation, who have overcome it and who in our society have all the right to social dignity and to a life without discrimination. This is the principle that the PSD believes it is important to safeguard and, therefore, we will follow the Socialist Party bill because we understand that in this decent society that does not discriminate and that it values people's efforts in access to credit, in access to insurance that are essential to their lives,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u12	...there can be no discrimination on the part of the State, nor can we accept that discrimination is the source of greater suffering in the lives of these people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u14	Still, of course, we have reservations about the application of this legislation. It has been mentioned here recently by Mrs Mariana Mortágua as the scope of her application, which is something we are concerned about. The terms "therapeutic success" and "surpassion" are also dimensions that the PSD believes it is necessary to define better. We also understand that the agreement, as described in particular in the Socialist Party bill, may end up, given its size and being so vague, in reality, or not being applied or having a complexity that legislation does not caution. And we therefore believe that it is important, as a matter of debate on the subject, to better define the scope and also to define what is this agreement that seeks to be established between the State and the financial sector, in order to safeguard the rights of patients who have experienced this difficult situation in their lives. Therefore, the PSD Parliamentary Group will be available to make its contributions, to ensure that the legislation that will leave this Parliament will give a positive signal in non-discrimination, but that, above all, it will not create legislation that is either harmless or that, because it lacks density, complexity and because it does not cover all reality and forgets the need for reconciliation between the financial sector, the State and the patients, may end up in a situation where we produce legislation that eventually does not have the outcome that we all expect: the feeling, common to all in this House, of not discriminating any patient and of facilitating access to credit and insurance for those who have gone through a very difficult situation in their lives. This is the PSD's commitment to the stage of discussion in the specialty, which is approaching. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u15	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, a communication from the Commission of the European Parliament to the Council of 3 February this year on the European Plan to Combat Cancer refers to improving the quality of life of patients and cancer survivors, many survivors of long-term cancer often suffer discrimination in access to financial services and are often faced with high prohibitive premiums, even when they have been cured for several years or even when they have been cured for decades. It is a reality that we all know and that undoubtedly also happens in Portugal. In fact, this is not the first time that Parliament has been debating and is aware of this. In 2006, following several projects, Law No. 46 / 2006 of 28 August was approved which prohibits and imposes discrimination due to disability and the existence of an aggravated risk of health. Therefore, these projects have an objective that seems to us to be beneficial and that is as simple as ensuring that those who are cured, who have already overcome this situation, are not confronted with discrimination which translates into prohibitive premiums, which prevent them from accessing these insurances. Therefore, from the point of view of the objectives, we agree. from the point of view of realisation, we have some issues that I think can be resolved in the field of expertise. The first question has to do with what the Socialist Party project says, because in reality this project—and I understand why it does—refers to an agreement to be concluded between the state and the insurers, with several clauses that seem well-intentioned to me, but it will be important to understand how they will be treated in practice. I therefore believe that, in discussion of the specialty, this issue of the contract — which is Article 4. o -A — and the way it will be prepared seem very relevant to me and it will be important to work on them. Secondly, there is another issue that I think we should also face, which is how it will be determined when this situation has already been overcome by the disease, that is, when we are already facing a situation of healing and how that will be measured. We need to see how we can avoid, in assessing this fact, that insurers systematically consider that the situation is simply not exceeded, even more so that it is enshrined — or is intended to establish — an impediment to the collection of health information in the pre-contractual phase. Therefore, we need to understand how this is done, under the penalty of creating a situation in which then, in practice, the mechanism does not work and we continue to do so. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u17	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u18	Mr. President and Mrs. Members : Today we are discussing two initiatives that we consider to be very worthwhile — seeking to ensure that people who have overcome a serious disease are not discriminated against in the case of purchase of a housing, if that is their option, of course, or of a insurance contract. This without discrimination, without penalty. We believe, in fact, that it is not fair that, after overcoming a serious disease, as an oncological disease, there are still obstacles and difficulties in the lives of these people, such obstacles that are not acceptable in our country and in the light of our Constitution, which states that equality should be ensured among all citizens. We believe that there can be no discrimination or penalty based on the disease and the health history of these same citizens. We understand that there is one aspect that matters to keep in mind, because many people in our country had an oncological disease, for example, when they were children, when they were young, but who have already overcome it. And, as if not enough this difficult, serious period, which they have faced in their lives, they are now prevented or with added difficulties to have access to the purchase of a housing—if that is their option—because the insurances that are associated go to absolutely exorbitant values, which are prohibitive and which are not acceptable. Therefore, in view of these objectives and this reality, the CFP naturally accompanies the proposals under discussion on this matter. We would, however, like to highlight two aspects which must be present in the deepening of the discussion, then in the context of discussion on the subject. A first point is a more general issue, which naturally concerns the concern we have about the fact that we are talking about health data, personal data, and that they are absolutely sensitive. It is important to have this concern throughout the legislative process, because we are well aware of the interest of financial institutions and insurers in this matter. It is therefore necessary to be concerned, taking into account other objectives that may be present. The other question is that whether the Socialist Party's proposal or the NAP's proposal are to put, in the way it has been presented, firstly, the logic of the agreement with the insurance institutions and only when it is not possible to establish such an agreement — the NAP speaks in protocol — is that it progresses towards a decree-law. But the question that should be asked is why this option and in this sense? The Assembly of the Republic has competence, it has legitimacy and, if the objective is to protect these citizens and to ensure that they are not discriminated against on the basis of their health history, because it does not already establish what rules are in place in this regard? We believe that this could be a way, because otherwise we are going in a way in which an agreement is established, but when it is not possible, it is necessary to come here to define legislation. I believe that these are situations that should be deepened. We are asking about the possibility of this agreement to assume some kind of counterpart, or not, to the insurance institutions. These are aspects that we must deepen in the field of discussion in the field of expertise. But I would like to make it clear that, as far as the principle is concerned, we naturally follow this idea of progress from a legislative point of view in order to protect these citizens so that they are not discriminated against because of their history of health and the diseases they have experienced in the past and have already overcome. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u19	Then let's move on to the closure. To this end, Mr Fernando Anastácio of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to highlight and record the broad consensus that this initiative is worth in this House of the Republic. It is a clear demonstration that the theme that has been brought here concerns the Portuguese, is an important issue for Portuguese society. As has already been said today, we all have someone, we know someone, who felt the discrimination that resulted precisely from having experienced very difficult times in the fight against the disease. We therefore have an increased responsibility to avoid this issue. I am recording some of the issues that have been raised here, and I can now point out that, and speaking specifically about the issue raised by Mrs Cecilia Meireles, the model, the points and the general lines of the proposal for an agreement have already been tested. We do not want to be innovative in this matter. It was a tested and successful model. The French Republic is now practicing it. We clearly have a solution that has been tested, which is effective and which also allows, without imposition, the parties at first — at the bottom, the financial sector, the insurance sector, who represents the interests of the patients — the ability to find a platform of understanding, but with extremely well defined parameters. On the issue of costs, I make it clear that our legislative initiative refers to the costs to be borne by the financial sector, by the insurance sector. That is clear in our legislative initiative and therefore we want to avoid the possibility of impacting these burdens on patients, people and citizens. We started, as I said, for this project with complete openness and I think that, in the context of the special discussion, of course, we will all have the necessary availability and time to consider, to hear, to guard materials that have already been mentioned and that are important, such as data protection. We have precisely concerns about the registration of information, but we also have to ensure that certain and certain parameters—also mentioned here—must be therapeutically defined by doctors, because they are scientists and therefore leave them to this sector. This is the case, for example, of knowing when a person is clinically cured in this framework. It is therefore up to us to decide, in Parliament, where the speciality is discussed, the amendments that will improve this project, with contributions from the various parliamentary groups, with contributions from civil society. This is because this project has all the conditions to be perfectly glutinating and to be a project where we can all see ourselves at the end, because, in some way, if we do so, we will also be seeing ourselves in what the hopes of the Portuguese people are. Regarding the NAP project, the objective is the same. It has some formulations on which we have some reservations, but in the same way and with the same spirit of openness in this regard, I think we should create conditions for all these legislative initiatives to be analysed, considered, worked, to find the best solution, with the assurance that at the end of the line at the end of this work we will certainly have taken very safe steps in combating discrimination. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u21	We move on to the second point of our agenda, with the general discussion of Bill No. 718 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Alter the horizontal property regime, making the eighth amendment to the Civil Code and to the amendment to Decree-Law No 268 / 94 of 25 October with subsequent amendments. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Marcia Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party today presents a bill that aims to improve the lives of people living in condominiums. The initiative results from the perception of reality, the finding of a set of conflict situations and the need to perfect a legal regime with more than 25 years of existence. The balance between private property and the use of the common parts of a building is not always easy to achieve, but inevitably it is part of our days. It is for this balance that the legislator should be motivated, paying attention to the difficulties, reflecting on what, for years and years, is being discussed in the courts and trying, with caution and respect for constitutional principles, to guide behaviors and create solutions. This is the noble function of legislating, and this is what this bill intends to do. To this end, the PSD proposes, for example, to expedite the procedures for collecting condominium debts, saying exactly when an act is an executive title; to end the discussion on which condominium it is to pay the works performed or to be carried out in the common parts of the building, whether it is the one who sells the fraction or the one who buys it with the works still going on; and to clarify that the condominium administrator should provide information to the condominium regularly and that it must comply with the deliberations of the assembly within a certain time limit, being held accountable if it does not do so. In addition, the obligation to issue debt or non-debt declarations when the fraction is sold and the powers that the administrator must have for the purpose of filing criminal complaints on behalf of the condom are other concerns reflected in this diploma. The PSD wants to put an end to the controversy that has long remained in the courts about whom it represents, because it has to be clear to all those who can fight in court when that is necessary. It is not reasonable to continue to attend discussions on procedural legitimacy. Who presents the action in court and against whom is it presented? The condominium? The condominium administrator? Or the condominium itself? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these doubts cannot continue to exist and to burden people with legal costs and with years of discussion on matters that divert attention from the real problems of a particular building and a set of condominiums. Many times, as we all know, when we have a sentence, years ago, neither the material problem exists nor has the same solution possible and, meanwhile, we have been discussing for years and years who should have presented the action in court. The bill is a response to the new requirements that exist for those who live, work or simply own a fraction on a horizontal property, as well as for those who take responsibility for administering condominiums. We want more capable condominium administrators and aware that they must act in emergency situations. The PSD wants the function of the condominium administrator to be dignified and respected, but this also involves accountability for its actions and, above all, its omissions, its inertia and the damage it causes to the people of a particular building. Living or working in a condominium cannot continue to be a source of constant problems and concerns. We have taken due note of all the opinions that have already been issued by the various entities which, by applauding the initiative, make important improvements. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe that the joint reflection, in the specialty, will be able to achieve the objective proposed by the PSD, which is to create mechanisms facilitating coexistence in condominiums and a simpler, more expeditious and more capable of responding to the needs of all. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u23	For an intervention, Mrs Cristina Mendes da Silva of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is undeniable that the Government of the Socialist Party for the first time in many years placed housing as the central pillar in the defense of a progressive, protective and turning state for the twenty-first century. We are concerned about fundamental rights, including the right to housing, dignity and health. Today, we discuss the PSD bill that proposes a change to the horizontal property regime, a very important matter, because the right to decent housing is underlying the possibility of people having living conditions, access to social rights, education, employment, care and leisure, which can only happen with good living conditions. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is attentive to the PSD's proposal with regard to the amendment of the horizontal ownership regime, but I would like to point out that, in view of the increasing complexity of condominium relations and the obstacles to the administration that has been revealed by practice, the Government has already made commitments to strengthen the rules on horizontal ownership and the functioning of condominiums. In addition, the legal regime of horizontal property is a critical factor for access to adequate housing, with quality and safety, for a relevant part of the population, until many of the buildings subject to this regime are not in good condition and may represent risks to people and goods. in this sense, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would like to be able to work on these issues further, until we have the Housing Basics Act, which is a work of the PS Government. The Housing Bases Act is a mark that we have left in terms of housing policy and that, so far, no government has left. This law has already entered and strengthened a set of fundamental points, such as the importance of the guarantee of conservation, maintenance, requalification and rehabilitation of dwellings constituted in horizontal condominium property and the need to deepen the regulation of condominium activity, in particular at the level of the establishment of reserve funds, so that, on the sale of buildings, the values to be paid by the former owner and the current owner are understood - avoiding situations of injustice and abuse of power - and also at the level of accountability, taxation and effective supervision of the existence and use of these reserve funds. This law also established that condominiums benefit from preferential conditions for access to re-qualification and urban rehabilitation programmes, particularly in terms of thermal and acoustic comfort, energy efficiency, accessibility for people with reduced mobility and enhanced seismic resilience of buildings and housing; and it also reinforced the momentum for the regulation of the professional activity of condominium management, so necessary. Without prejudice to everything that has been presented, working on the necessary deepening of the regulations in this area, the Government has already taken very important steps, from then on, with the approval of Decree-Law No 81 / 2020 of 2 October, which fits the instruments created in the new generation of housing policies, with the organic law of the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilitation Urbana) and with the Housing Basics Act, within the framework of the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme which opened the first amendment to Decree-Law No 268 / 94, as you all know. Despite the above, we must recognize some merits of the PSD Parliamentary Group initiative and, although there are previously identified constraints, we highlight the following positive points: it aims to introduce facilitating mechanisms of coexistence on horizontal property, in particular by agitating collection processes; it calls for greater responsibility among all parties of this relationship, condominiums and administration; and it aims to contribute to the pacification of jurisprudence, setting and seeking to solve some more controversial matters that have led to exaggerated judicial expectations. On the other hand, while seeking to make some relevant refinements, this initiative also loses an opportunity to introduce other major changes, such as the establishment of mechanisms for electronic simplification in the collection of signatures and the possibility of taking advantage of the means of communication at a distance, which have so much done at the time we passed, or the densification of the regime of the common reserve funds and the creation of mechanisms of capitalisation and effectiveness, given its vital relevance for the rehabilitation and preservation of the national building on horizontal property. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group knows that this will continue to be the subject of special attention by the Government and, taking into account some of the merits of the PSD initiative, it believes that it can make very important and important contributions, so it calls for the initiative to go down to 6. the Commission, without a vote, to work and to ensure the introduction of amendments and clarification of concepts and standards so that condominiums, condominiums and other relevant agents are able to offer everyone the right to a decent housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u25	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the BE Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill that the PSD brings to the discussion raises relevant questions. The administration of condominium, the regulation of common parts and the functioning of condominium assemblies, in addition to constitutional changes, are matters that need clarification that reduces conflict. Having said this, the project under discussion seems to us to do exactly the opposite, because it adds more to the conflict than it allows the solution in a perspective of sharing responsibility of people who cohabit in buildings whose property is different and may also have several purposes. The power given to the administrator of the condominium, in the solution, and the withdrawal of condominium intervention in various spheres, increasing, for example, the implementation processes which are required by the administration of the condominium, seems abusive to us and against the idea of neighbourhood and community that may come to different understandings. Conflict and dispute will become the norm for solving problems which can easily be agreed, which we do not think is a good principle at all. It seems to us disproportionate and, curiously, this increase in the dispute to which I mentioned earlier seems to precede the need for a dispute reserve fund. Moreover, the proposed value is also excessive. Half of the value of the maintenance reserve fund — which we already know is often difficult to establish — is obviously excessive. The executive title is sufficient, therefore, to the signature of the President of the House, as well as permission to administer it so that it can execute interest and values which do not refer to the dues, renders the administrator of the condominium a « weak collector ». Finally, and because the administrator also has several competences, it is understood that these amendments are intended only for the professionalization of condominiums, penalizing more common and shared management of the owners and leading to the fact that no one intends to be a condominium administrator if he does not have business capacity for this and a large legal office that can do so. Therefore, it seems to us that there are no conditions for making changes on the basis of these fundamental principles that substantially alter the arrangements without giving priority to the residents of buildings or owners, but rather to condominium companies and lawyers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u27	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Márcia Passos, I would like to congratulate you and the Social Democratic Party on bringing this project to debate, because it puts two essential issues in housing policy, which have not been resolved over the years, among many others on this issue which has not been resolved either. They are the horizontal property and the management of condominiums, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, indirectly, the rehabilitation and preservation of buildings. Therefore, devaluing an initiative that points to solving these problems is a waste of time and work. What can happen—and, from our point of view, this can indeed happen—is that what is being proposed is not enough or that it deserves some amendments, in the field of expertise. In fact, the Advocates' Order has already spoken on some matters, not speaking against the initiative — and this must also be recognised — but pointing out some matters which must be addressed. This, in a specialized work, should deserve our attention. However, do not recognize that in Portugal there is a very serious problem in the management of condominiums, with regard to equality between condominiums... I find it extraordinary that there are Members, and parties, in this House, who find it indifferent that there is no equality between condominiums. They are absolutely indifferent. If they pay and others don't, patience! Whether or not the buildings are preserved, the fruit of this, patience! If there's a reserve fund or not, you'll soon see it! Mrs. Members, this House must produce rules to ensure that there is equality and that everyone fulfils its responsibilities and that common responsibilities are also exercised, because it is not possible to exercise, for example, the responsibility of maintaining the common parties if each one fails to fulfil its obligations.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u30	It's impossible! So, what we are talking about here is getting more prompt processes to fulfil this obligation. It's indisputable and it's necessary! We all know cases where this doesn't happen. We all know cases of blockades, in which the overwhelming majority of condoms comply, are willing to do all the necessary interventions, but because there is one, two or three that do not, often, the processes are blocked. And do we think there's no need to do anything to solve that? Oh, my God! I think we have to have that notion. On the other hand, two years ago, the CDS had presented an initiative on the reserve fund, which was rejected by the left. It is also essential to note that the question of the reserve fund is not only a problem in horizontal ownership but also in full ownership and that there are no mechanisms to monitor the establishment of this reserve fund today. It is important that we also address this matter so that the reserve fund, on the one hand, exists and, on the other hand, is guaranteed to be used for the purposes laid down by law. Not one thing or another is assured. For this reason, on the part of the CDS, there will be availability to contribute to this work, which we believe can and should be a deeper work on the revision of the horizontal property regime and the reserve fund regime in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u31	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall begin with the first article which the PSD intends to amend in the legislation in which Article 1419 (2). this would be to say: ‘The refusal of the consent of condoms representing a percentage of less than 10 % of the value of the building, for amendment of the constitutional title as to the common parts, may be dealt with in judicial proceedings if the refusal is unjustified and if, in an objective assessment, the amendment does not prejudice in particular any of the condoms. » For literary prize, this can give a good candidate,... [[Laughing from PCP MP João Dias.]] ... but for legislation to be passed in the Assembly of the Republic, I have serious doubts. In fact, the question remains:...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u33	What question? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u34	...in an objective assessment is that what the PSD feels the need to write? And then what is added? Impartial, sensible, intelligent? What if it was not 'objective', what would Mr. Juiz decide? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first article, there are many questions which arise: what is 'the amendment does not prejudice, in particular, any of the condominiums'? A decision always prejudices the party against whom it is decided; what is considered'special'? The powerful real estate to whom is everything possible? The law exists precisely for minority condominiums to be targeted for the protection of majority condominiums, whose interests are different direction. On the other hand, when purchasing fractions, all acquirers have knowledge of their own parts, of their own, and of their common parts, of their own. Therefore, the rule of unanimous or majority approval should be maintained without opposition and not that idea of exceeding the refusal of representative condominiums of less than 10 %. With regard to conservation and profit charges, Article 1424. the purpose of this change of the PSD is to open the door to the responsibility of the fraction buyer, corresponding to it in the payment of expenditure with the conservation and use of the common parts and for which it has not been heard. On the one hand, it has the responsibility of paying the benefits at a cost which it has not contracted and which is still in debt, but has not been found in the deliberation process and at the time of taking up the expenditure. Finally, it can be seen that it is a expense of which the injured is. Moreover, this option is understood only when what is intended is the compensation, at all costs, of expenditure per third, even if it was not the expense agent. On the other hand, curiously, the PSD opts not to determine that the sales instrument is also instructed by a declaration document of the administration of the condominium, notarially recognised the signature, power for the act and the quality of the administrator in operation. Finally, being of public knowledge that most buildings do not have the condominiums formally constituted or being the administration exercise to be performed by people without the specialized training in this activity, it is of the greatest legitimacy to ask about the good faith of this article.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u35	Good faith? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u36	As regards the administrator's solutions, Articles 1436. o and 1437. it is truly astonishing that, at the same time as it is considered that failure to fulfil the obligation to carry out the work is subject to the submission of at least three budgets, it is admitted that this will not happen, provided that the regulations of the condominium or the assembly so determines. That is, when it is to collect, it is sanctioned, when it is to preserve, adjourned and entered. It is incomprehensible for the condominium administrator to present criminal complaints as such, without the authorization of condominiums or mandated by the assembly. It is foolish that the condominium is in a situation for which it has not even been heard. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when reading this PSD proposal, we are impressed with such a bad project in form and content, options and consequences,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u37	... but, even more impressive and worrying, it is the responsiveness and even the concordance with which the PS reacted in the debate. Mrs. Members, 'for worse it is enough'. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u38	As the Bureau no longer registers, we are closing this debate. To this end, Mrs Marcia Passos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Bruno Dias, from literary prize to such a bad bill, said a lot and, honourable Member, I am sorry to tell you, but I think you made a huge effort to disagree with this bill. He made a huge effort— huge! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Because good faith, Mr. Member, is not when a condominium owes money, plays with others and because of it the works are not done in that building. This is not good faith, sir! It is not good faith that the condominium administrator, who must award a work, voted and approved in the House and, by months and years, does not do so. This is not good faith! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] And it is against this, Mr Bruno Dias, that the PSD wants and is going to fight. The reflection we have made today, in this plenary, demonstrates clearly that the concerns are many, that are real and that they all call together, Mr President! They all call for this discussion. It's a shame they don't seem to call either the PCP or the Left Block. Because, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, the PSD does not want to turn the administrator of the condominium into a « weak banker ». No, he won't! Open... [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] What the PSD wants is that debts are promptly charged. Of course you do! But why shouldn't it be that way?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u40	Of course! With weakness or without weakness, their obligation is that! [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u41	Mrs Deputy, we are far from fundamental principles, and yet we are far from them, because the PSD is a party that fights for responsibility and who has to pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u43	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u44	And who can't, the state has to help. It is not the other condominiums or the other entities, who reside and work on the same horizontal property, who must bear the inertia and irresponsibility of the other condominiums who are debtors and who do so. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] It is against this that the PSD is and the bill goes towards accountability and balance. Of course, in the specialty, we will be available to adapt, to make the adjustments...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u45	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u46	...that they are, of course, required, and we will advocate all the contributions of the other parliamentary boards. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u47	We will move to point three of our order of business, which consists in the general assessment of Bill No. 724 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extraordinary arrangements for supporting the maintenance of housing and commercial spaces during the mitigation and recovery period of SARS-CoV-2( 6 ). the amendment to Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April ). For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 6 April 2020 the law that responded to the need for stability in housing and non-inhabitation in the context of the COVID pandemic has been published for more than one year. Clearances were also suspended and contracts renewed automatically. And after this pandemic year, this regime changed five times, and the latter was in December 2020 before the second confinement. at this moment, the support for the payment of income has had very little effectiveness — indeed, very little! — and income and debts in the housing case have already been paid since last year. This reality seems to have forgotten that we have recently experienced a new confinement with a greater loss of income and that we have been watching reports of rising unemployment and underemployment. In the non-residential lease the threat of clearance, after June, as well as the subsequent increase in incomes, has been a sharp knife in the tender hope of recovery of each small and medium-sized company. The news of the values of the houses, on the contrary, continues the rate of growth. The National Institute of Statistics reports that at the end of 2020 the price of houses rose by two digits in the middle of the country, with an enormous expression in the city of Porto, 16, 6 % higher than in 2019, and in the historical center this value reaches 23 %. at a time of economic stagnation, this growth is clearly beyond the income and capacity of consumption or acquisition in our country. No freedom of choice for consumers, zero market efficiency. In the same line, the rental data indicate that the average income values in Portugal cost two thirds of the average wage — two thirds! — and increased also between the end of the second half of 2019 and 2020. And now let's think about the concrete of life: an aggregate with a mother and a daughter, who live in Lisbon, needs a T2 which must measure about 85 m2 and which, according to these values, costs 857 €. Let's imagine that the mother earns such average salary that, in the capital, it is €1098. The income value represents 66% of its income. Yes, sir. and ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to live like this. With the intensification of the pandemic, this problem tends to get worse. The result of this situation will be an intensification of the housing crisis and an intensification of the closure of trade spaces and the economic crisis. It is therefore urgent to act with a medium-term regime that stabilizes prices, brings them closer to incomes and allows for the maintenance of commercial and housing spaces. This is what we have seen here to propose — an exceptional scheme of stabilization of three years with the following characteristics: to extend the scope of the support of income to beneficiaries of social support, with income below the poverty threshold or with break-up support, among others, and, in the case of commercial spaces for individual entrepreneurs, whether employed or not, and for those who have maintained the economic activity, but have changed to a cheaper space and the contract is already later than the beginning of the pandemic. We also propose to extend the suspensions and support by the end of 2021, beginning with the payment of the outstanding securities in 2022, and to extend until January 2025. Thirdly, we propose to alleviate debt values for residential and commercial spaces, with a reduction in debt as a result of the increase in speculation since 2010. This proposed reduction is 20 %, taking into account the accumulated amount of February 2020. We also propose a reduction in the value of income in this percentage, where it did not occur, and that these values be extended until January 2025. We also propose to change the reference value of the lease up to 2025, establishing as the maximum income that is admitted for support under Porta 65 Jovem and, provided there is payment of the income values in their due time, the contracts extend until 1 January 2025. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in 2018, even before the crisis, 33 % of the population had no economic capacity to ensure immediate payment of unexpected expenditure without resorting to loans. The poverty intensity rate was 22, 4 % and the poverty risk rate of an aggregate with dependent children was 33, 9 % in the case of single parent aggregate with at least one child. At the end of January 2021 we had registered as unemployed more than 100 000 people than in the same month of the previous year, applications for employment were almost 600 000 and some 75 000 jobs had been destroyed. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the limbo in which thousands of families are located, small businesses and, moreover, the whole country has to be stagnated and only a clear aid to stabilization will guarantee it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u49	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already welcomed the Block for bringing this initiative to the Assembly of the Republic. So far, there is no doubt that the NAP has also played a very important role in defending the rights of housing tenants and in defending measures to protect non-individual tenants. We never put ourselves on the wall and were always on the side of defending the interests of people and businesses. Since the first hour we have argued that this is a crisis of unpredictable duration, it should also have a flexible duration of all support for housing tenants. However, this was unfortunately not the path chosen by the government, nor by the majority of this Parliament. Since the first hour, we have argued that the right to housing had to take into account measures to support owners with housing credits and, therefore, we have proposed, under Supplementary Budget, that, within the framework of the moratoriums, the applicable legislation should be amended to prevent interest due during the period of extension of the moratoriums from being capitalised in the value of the loan and accumulated to the capital in debt. However, this was not the path chosen by Parliament, which led to the proposal of the NAP, with the votes against the PS, the PSD and the Liberal Initiative, the abstention of the CDS-PP and the Arrival. This means that, at the end of the moratorium, bank customers will be duly penalised and banks will be able to obtain an extra gain, which will end up being superior to what would exist, if the lack of capital was the only part in question. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in our view, this is not the way to defend people's right to housing. We also recall that we were the first party to propose here at the beginning of the health crisis in April 2020 the creation of support for non-residential lords, and this proposal was plunged by the same political forces. But it was thanks to the NAP that this Parliament unanimously adopted an initiative that urged the Government to include companies created in the year 2020 under the Programmes Supporting + Simple and Supporting Rendas. It was also thanks to the NAP that this Parliament, with the vote against the PS, the CDS-PP and the Liberal Initiative and the abstention of the Arrival, approved a clarification that ensured that the exceptional arrangement of support for the shopkeepers, approved in Supplementary Budget, would apply from the start of the health crisis in our country and would cover retailers parks and outlets. But if we have no doubt which side the NAP is on in this debate, we can also have no doubt that the NAP has always been guided by a stance capable of protecting the most fragile side, without compromising the balance of interests of both sides of the contractual relationship. The proposal from the Left Block has positive points, which we follow without restrictions, such as the extension of the scope of beneficiaries of the exceptional scheme of support to housing tenants, but has other points that go on a path that will cause excessive and disproportionate burdens on the part of landlords, in terms that put at risk the continuity of the contractual relationship itself, such as the Bolivarian solution of unilateral taxation and without any counterpart of limits to income values. by the positive points it has, the NAP will not unfeasible this project, so that it is discussed in the specialty, but we are alert to the need to correct these excesses, which, harming the landlords, will only deprotect even more tenants. We hope that the Left Block will be available to, in particular, do a work that harmonises these two interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u51	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is not registering any more...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u52	Madam President, if you will allow me, I would like to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u53	Then you have the floor of Mrs Marcia Passos, from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Responding to the needs of families, especially those who are most vulnerable because of the pandemic, and extending the aid through IHRU's financial support, are measures that deserve the approval of the PSD. But we must not forget that such support created in 2020 did not respond effectively to needs. Actually, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I remember that only 3076 requests for income support have been submitted and, of these, only 748 have been approved and have been assisted by the State to pay the income. Why did the families who asked for help at a time of great difficulties no longer seek help? And why, of those who asked, less than half were contemplated? What went wrong, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Therefore, in addition to extending support, it is necessary to rethink the model, otherwise we will continue to have families without effective answers. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We applaud solutions that reach people who help them in times of crisis, such as those we live in, but we will not support solutions that will allow the government to continue to resign from its role. That's why they don't count on us. This bill, submitted by the Left Block, has some solutions of these, perfectly sent out, solutions that harm landlords in a completely unjustified way, solutions that divert attention from what it is, and must be, the function of the State, apparently wanting to give the hand to a government unable to respond to the real needs of tenants. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u55	It's the government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have the obligation to help the Portuguese, at this time of enormous difficulties for those living in their work or their business, for whom a income is often — I remember — the only income of a family. Through substantial support lost, through loans at reduced costs, such is once again the role and duty of the government. As it should have done since August 2020, with the creation of the credit line approved here in the Assembly of the Republic, but which the government insists on not regulating, making authentic dead letter of law passed by all of us on behalf of the Portuguese and Portuguese. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will stir up your memories. Law No. 45 / 2020 of 20 August adopted by us states: « The landlords whose renters no longer pay the income(...) may apply for the granting of a credit line with reduced costs, to regulate(...) by the government portal. So far, nothing, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! A total disrespect of the Government for this Assembly of the Republic! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u56	The government continues to fail with the landlords and renters and has not yet realized that it is failing and creating more problems in the whole lease market. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to correct what is wrong, to cover more families and to make the answers more effective, the PSD response is always « yes ». But to force the gentlemen to perform the function of the State, the answer, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is and will always be no, no and no! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u57	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the beginning of the pandemic and the first moment when it became very clear the situation of deep economic and social crisis that we were going through, the PS knows that only strong State intervention, with strong measures to support families, businesses and people, will enable us to overcome the situation of insecurity and difficulty we are going through. And the housing has been, and is, at the heart of the responses of extraordinary support, as it has been at the heart of the country's political and investment priorities. It is not the first time, as has already been said, that we make this important debate here today that the Bloc brings about the amendment of the extraordinary system of housing support and commercial spaces, and our position has been consistent, appropriate to the size of the problems, available to find and discuss the best solutions, also at times overcoming our differences, but above all adapting the responses to the evaluation of the evolution of the pandemic, on the one hand, and its impacts, on the other. We have been defending, for more than a year, and in the ensuing debates on the initiative of the Government or Parliament, a support regime which, as a priority, defends tenants, but also achieves a balance with the legitimate rights of landlords and preserves the State's ability to meet the challenges we face, continuing public housing policies in Portugal. That is why we must remember the evolution of the path we have made, also in the parliamentary debate. at the first time of confinement, the payment of income was deferred, accompanied by measures to support tenants for their payment, and it is also suspended until June of this year the expiry or termination of contracts. At a second point of resumption, all income support was maintained, which lasted until July this year, and Parliament also extended the beneficiaries, allowing access to those who had broken income by 30 %. In the commercial lease, we supported the initiatives that created the protection mechanisms for entrepreneurs, such as the moratoriums, also extended until 2021 the income discount support scheme, proportional to the billing break, and the establishments that have been closed since March 2020 have, of course, extended lease contracts and will only start to pay the moratorium in 2022. We have always held that no one would be protected, but we have found a balance between the times when it was necessary to strengthen support, through the imposition of a confinement and the urgent and real need to intensify this effort, and the moments, such as that in which we find ourselves, to recover and resume, to suit and maintain the necessary support, which currently exist in a balanced division of efforts and, at the same time, without confusing the debates on extraordinary responses—such as that of the project under consideration—and the substantive discussions on housing policy options. However, if we subscribe to the importance of the debate on the evaluation of the extension of the lease support — in fact, an assessment and a debate that we will do at the time of our own initiative, possibly at the initiative of the Government, until July — and the merits of the project, by raising, in a relevant way, the importance of continuing to support the efforts of families and Portuguese people to know what support they can count on, which is certainly a source of concern, it is also true that there are a set of objectives of this project that deal with matters that are important but have to do with fundamental issues and public policy options. The fight against the harmful and excessive effects of speculation and the unbearable costs of housing for families, the fight against the precariousness and informality of the lease market, which are also important battles, to which we have responded with options of public policy fund, exceeds the scope of a project on extending or not extraordinary support, at the exceptional stage that the country crosses. For example, the solution found by the Project of the Left Block for the stability of the lease market and for the fight against speculative excesses—and of course, it is a chronic and structural difficulty we know—to be, in fact, the return to a logic of freezing incomes up to 2025, which in the past has not proven to promote stability, not only raises the greatest doubts as well as it is not the option of public policy that we always assume, as we all know, that it is that the intervention of the State, and a strong intervention, is done through the creation of a public housing park. This is the way the State intervenes and has a share in the lease market, this is our choice of public policy. That is why, Mr President and Mr President. Members, the PS Parliamentary Group has always given a response to the needs of stability and support for families and trade during the pandemic, but adjusted to the greater or lesser seriousness of the times we are going through. We will, of course, be here for the debate, if necessary, and we will make the evaluation of further support, consider new solutions for implementing measures, because the country needs to. We will, of course, be in this debate with new solutions and we hope that also in convergence with left-wing parties, as in the new housing rights agenda. We will assume this responsibility because, as we know, we have a government and a parliamentary group of the Socialist Party that advocate an option...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u59	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u60	I will finish, Madam President. As I said, we will assume this responsibility because we have a Government and a Socialist Party Parliamentary Group that advocates an option of public housing policies in Portugal with an intensity and an investment that never happened in our country before. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u61	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to this Left Block initiative, what we are going to say is that, effectively, the Left Block is trying, once again, in terms of housing, to present a solution that reminds us of other times, but that, even by remembering other times and having lasted so long, has its result perfectly known, that is, the freezing of income is not, has never been and will never be a solution to balance the housing market. We have a problem of lack and difficulty in meeting that results not from a imbalance in the functioning of the market but from the existence of a pandemic. There is a pandemic, which has had consequences in people's lives and which in many cases makes it difficult to fulfill obligations or access to housing in generic terms. So that's where the problem needs to be solved. The Left Block believes that if the government fails to solve the problem, it is not its obligation as a party — I do not know whether it is the situation, if it is the opposition, it has days! — having a seat in this Assembly of the Republic, requiring the Government to fulfil its obligations. As is normal in the Left Block, it does not require of the government, demands of the lords. Therefore, who will once again make social policy in Portugal, according to the Block of the Left, are the owners of the dwellings, the landlords. This logic proved, in the past, that led, as it led to the absolute degradation of the housing park in Portugal, to a brutal housing crisis, especially in the largest urban centers, and to a degradation of the living conditions of tenants. It seems that, in the eyes of the Left Block and other political forces in this Parliament, the fact that obligations on gentlemen are increased successively — often on older gentlemen and under enormous economic conditions too — is a problem for gentlemen only. For us, that was enough, because you are also people, with equal dignity and deserve the same respect as any other citizen, but you ignore the consequences that this has, which is to make the living conditions of tenants worse. Looks like it doesn't matter! So, the fact that there are no conditions to do conservation works and to maintain the dignity of dwellings is not a problem of who lives there, is it a problem of who owns it? Oh, my God! That's just in the eyes of the Left Block and the PCP! The biggest problem is for those who live there, obviously, because they're going to live in worse conditions. Therefore, this logic of paving and programmatic policy, which results only in the slogans that you are promoting, has a consequence in this Parliament, which is that of lead, because if we were to approve what the Left Block is proposing today, we had worse housing, worse conditions for tenants, worse conditions for those with the most difficulty and much greater freedom for the government not to comply with its obligation. The only entity that would be better, if this proposal of the Left Block were approved, was the Government. It was the only one who benefited from this project that presents us the Left Block. They didn't benefit from renters, nor people who want access to housing and they don't have, nor gentlemen—no one! — benefited from the government. Since we are not here to favour the Government, we will not approve the Left Block initiative. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u63	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This left bloc bill is called « extraordinary housing support regime» but it could be called « extraordinary market and economic destruction regime », because in fact it is difficult to see a project with as much imbalance as this. The Left Block basically proposes that the owners and the owners should pay all the debt and all the bill of the crisis. A 20 % debt reduction, a 36-month escalation is something that is not seen in any country in Europe. In no country in Europe do we have a regime like this. The consequence would be obvious and obvious: in addition to unconstitutionality, there would be a structural imbalance between those who have the duty to guarantee property and those who have the right to enjoy it. Never seen! It would be an authentic destruction of the market and a favour to the socialist government. But there is one issue that we must raise, because in fact the Socialist Party had promised in March 2020 that it would support the landlords and owners in this imbalance between those who pay and those who inhabit them, in this imbalance caused by the pandemic. Over a year, what do we have? Oh, my God! Loans that have never arrived, credit that has never been realized and accumulated debt for those who for years have had to sustain the crisis, keep their establishments open and do not fire anyone if they want to have access to the benefits and loans derived from the State. That's the payment sheet we gave them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u65	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u66	I will finish, Madam President. They could not say goodbye, they had to keep the establishments and now they say to them: "Now they do not receive and yet pay, preferably. Do not keep on seeking. ” It's really destroying the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u67	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are two facts that we should point out in this discussion, the first being that of the brutal impact this pandemic crisis has brought not only to workers and populations, particularly to those of the lowest incomes, but also to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, with obvious emphasis on the problems of the right to housing and rent, including commercial ones. Secondly, we note the inexplicable fact of the very limited scope of the measures that have been taken, with the rejection of a number of proposals which would make the answer completely different. The PSD and the CDS, which have just drawn attention to the lack of response of the support that has been created, are the same as those that have joined the PS to lead proposals, in particular those presented by the CFP, which would prevent these problems, with a truly effective response, including in support and compensation to landlords. On the maintenance of extraordinary measures to protect tenants, the CFP has already proposed that the period of validity be determined for the whole year of 2021, and you have made this proposal unfeasible. Even with regard to banking moratoriums, the threat to families today could already be removed. It is important to ask which decisions are being so difficult at the level of discussion in the field of expertise. Mrs. Members, uncertainty and ignorance about tomorrow are aspects that even business tenants and economic operators have come to point out as a serious problem of the Portuguese economy in the current context. This uncertainty, which is being maintained with the decisions postponed in this way, with responses that are plunged by the joint option of PS, PSD and CDS, is a problem that is getting worse in our country. in this sense, there is a need to make decisive progress in relation to solutions and responses from a legislative point of view. The CFP, as I have just demonstrated, has already made several contributions in this direction and what it would be necessary at this time to discuss and work together to find the best solutions. in this discussion, we want to present three very brief observations. On the one hand, as regards Article 4. the project submitted, or rather, to the amendment to Article 4. the Law No. 4 - C / 2020, there would be a need to cover the deferral of the payment of income due from the beginning of the pandemic, avoiding incongruence from the point of view of application and extending the number of months for payment of late income. On the other hand, it is also important to indicate as regards Article 3. the, that support for lords in this context should not be totally eliminated from the way it is considered, until, as you know, from the perspective of the CFP, in relation to the landlords is not all the same. While some are more concerned about real estate and large economic groups in this area, we also know that there are different situations. Therefore, compensation and support for gentlemen are aspects that must be on the table, provided that there is justice in the implementation of these measures. Finally, referring to the question of the initiative to initiate these processes, we consider in relation to Articles 8. o-B is 8. o -A, which should be the responsibility of the landlord, and not of each tenant, take the initiative to initiate these processes, as regards their own responsibility. in this regard, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be available to work, as a specialist, on concrete proposals that will improve this text. What we consider, no doubt—is evidence that life is demonstrating every day, from north to south of the country—is that the current situation and the answers in force do not solve or actually address the problems that people, tenants, tenants and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are currently feeling about this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u69	We shall now turn to the end of this debate. To that end, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Starting with Mr Bruno Dias, with regard to the proposals he brings to the table, we are fully available to examine them - and of course there are support that have already been eliminated before. It is not the proposal of the Left Block that eliminates them, but in fact makes sense that we can put them back in line with the issues we raised. On the rest of the speeches, it is true that the government fails and the Left Block knows that. The Left Block has had several interventions and we have made proposals. The reduction in the rate of effort from 35 % to 30 % was proposed by the Left Block, such as suspension of layoffs, extension of the suspension of contract deadlines etc. It has been through the intervention of the Left Block that we have managed to bring this stability, to this day, into the lease contracts. But it is true that the government has to go further, because the market also fails. And the market is clearly failing in this case. We have very little offer on the private market for rent and there is no rehabilitation for housing. The one that exists is only for local accommodation spaces. People look for homes to rent within the incomes they have available in their wallet and do not find them. There it is: the market is failing! What I wonder is that liberalisation has balanced the market? Have you improved the market?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u71	It's improved for some!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u72	As they say, does income limitation make the market worse? In conscience, I think you are. Members and Members of Parliament cannot say that liberalisation has improved the market, until the housing crisis is taking place right now, and is intensifying with the lack of regulation that the pandemic has become visible. I wonder where is this liberalisation that brought the availability of the 700 000 housing fires, which are empty, in our country. For example, Barcelona and Berlin. They said that there are no countries or cities at European level that have raised the issue of income limitation. That's not true! Barcelona and Berlin have already come to do so. There are countries that have limitations on income, such as Denmark and Austria,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u73	Soviet Austria!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u74	...and that they also have large private lease markets. That is what we need to start discussing in this House of the Republic. The double problem that overloads thousands of families and thousands of micro and small businesses, which are currently without hope, also puts the recovery of this country from Portugal in limbo, at a time when we have to respond to a pandemic that exacerbates the problems we live, the lack of income and the lack of capacity to respond to what the market has not been responding to. We have to intervene to guarantee it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u75	We will move on to the fourth point of our agenda, which is the debate on draft resolution No 914 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Strengthening support measures for elderly persons living alone or isolated together with Bill No 540 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Establishment of a reporting platform for irregular or illegal practices in residential structures for the elderly (generally) and Resolution Projects Nos 117 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Ensure access to geriatric residences for all elderly people, 687 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — For the study and foundation of policies aimed at older people, promotion of active aging and protection of vulnerabilities, including violence against older people, and 1250 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Enlarge the scope and competence of the current National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth. For the first intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Green Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is one of the oldest countries in the world and the aging rate is constantly worsening. Currently, for every 100 young people residing in the country, there are over 162 elderly people, with about 22% of the Portuguese population being over 65 years old. The vast majority of the elderly population receive very low reforms, leading to many elderly people being below the poverty line. The pandemic has highlighted the many weaknesses in our society, from the outset as regards how we deal and treat our elderly people, who, by their advanced age, are more vulnerable, especially to disease. The virus has made the reality and structural problems of homes evident, which host thousands of elderly people: equipment, mostly managed by IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), overcrowded with few means and human resources, which question the conditions in which many elderly people live. Over the years, by options of successive governments, the State has resigned from its direct responsibility with regard to the reception of the elderly in residential structures. The population with more advanced age, more vulnerable to COVID-19, was, as a protective measure, advised to stay at home, or was even forbidden to leave homes, thus emphasizing its isolation, with impacts on mental health. For those who live in their homes, solutions were found by the authorities, community and neighbourhood to ensure help to many elderly people with regard to access to food, medicine or a simple friendly word to combat loneliness, but the truth is that, as time goes by, much of the volunteerism has been diluted. However, we want to reinforce that the serious situation in which some elderly people are not merely derived from the pandemic, and this only aggravated the response to the needs of the elderly, many of whom live alone. In October of last year, in the context of the operation of the GNR Census Senior, which occurs annually from 2011, 42 439 elderly living alone and / or isolated, were identified, the vast majority in the districts of the interior of the country. With the closure of day centers and associations, this population, a large part with autonomy and willingness to continue living in their homes, was deprived of living, therapy, physiotherapy and follow-up closer to chronic diseases and even a more balanced diet. It is also important to note that thousands of elderly people are also caregivers of others, including spouses, with disease situations and other adversity, particularly dramatic during the winter, with low temperatures and very weak living conditions, without heating or economic conditions to pay the high energy costs. On the other hand, with the lack of transportation and the closure of health extensions, many elderly people have found it difficult to access health services and the relationship of primary health care has been made by telephone (with many unattended calls) or by e-mail — this for an ininfo excluded population. Given that there already exists—by the GNR ( Republican National Guard ), the authorities and primary health care units—a signage of the elderly who live alone, isolated or in another situation of greater vulnerability, it is necessary to ensure responses quickly, ensuring each one's right to live his or her life wherever he or she wants, with autonomy and quality. This is the issue that The Greens bring to discussion through this draft resolution, which recommends that support measures be strengthened for the elderly who live alone or isolated, that public health support services be strengthened, as well as mental health professionals in health centres, and the creation of mechanisms for the authorities to ensure support for the elderly population, whether in access to food, medicine or others. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u77	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is getting older. It is not a positive fact, although it results from the positive evolution of the average life expectancy. The ageing of the population, a characteristic of all the societies developed, brings with it, as we know, several challenges. At social level, the INE (National Institute of Statistics) estimates that in the coming decades we will approach a ratio of three elderly people for each young person, a duplication in the face of the current situation that will create major difficulties for economic development and the social security system. Individually, aging will bring new challenges to health, the risk of loneliness, the risk of abandonment or the risk of violence. That is why the issue of aging is already a political issue of the greatest importance. Advanced liberal democracy recognizes the elderly as full individuals, holders of rights, including active participation in the society to which they belong. The proposals that the Liberal Initiative brings today are presented with exactly this intent. We will face the challenges of age and we understand that the risks of paternalist prejudice and marginalization associated with old age cannot continue. We recognize vulnerability situations, but we also promote active and healthy aging and we cannot ignore the deterioration of functional capacities that the pandemic has exacerbated in the last year. At the same time, the proposals we bring are the reflection of another aspect that we do not tire of repeating: it is not possible to design and plan effective public policies without reliable data. I said this about the pandemic and I say it about this matter. There are no data, either in quantity or in quality, regarding the age economy, active ageing or the characterization of the various support structures. All of this means that we will not be able to measure the impact of measures on these dimensions. In 2013, in the study Aging Processes in Portugal, coordinated by Manuel Villaverde Cabral, it could be read that « repositioning the elderly in the intergenerational relations system as a whole is a democratic imperative and a political challenge that aging societies face ». We couldn't agree more and it's time to do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u79	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have a growing and growing problem in Portugal with regard to the ageing of the population. But this problem increases when the State, which should give an answer, is unable to do. A few days ago we heard about a new health center, an extension of health, which closed because of the lack of doctors. However, this same extension of health was longer closed due to lack of conditions. The lack of professionals brings together the screaming inability to have decent host structures and decent facilities for receiving and providing medical care. We probably have a network of clandestine homes that would shame any country in the European Union, so much so that when the pandemic started, we had to discuss whether or not we should give the same care to legal homes and illegal homes, which was increased because the government was not only able to monitor and not able to license. We are thus becoming a kind of underground market for homes and geriatric homes. This is the picture of Portugal today: an increase in aging rates probably unique in Europe, with the closure, also probably unique of Europe, of extensions and health units, with the closure of care and networks for the provision of health services and geriatric homes when we have one of the oldest populations in Europe. It is urgent for the government to act in this specific dimension of our society. It is a problem that affects all of us, affects the communities, affects families and probably in no other state of the European Union is seen and analyzed with so much degradation. Caring for older people is not just a duty, it is an obligation of the State. A state that has failed and now has the duty to launch a large, long-term network of geriatric residences, so that our elderly have conditions worthy of existence, co-existence and participation in the community.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u81	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill presented by the CDS today aims to extend the scope and competence of the current National Commission for the Promotion of Rights and Protection of Children and Youth to the elderly. Concern with the elderly and, in particular, the promotion and development of active aging and protection policies for the elderly were always in the genesis and priorities of the CDS. Almost five years ago, in this House, in June 2016, the CDS marked a positive agenda on the theme of active aging and protection of the elderly, with the presentation of a set of 19 initiatives, of which more than two thirds were rejected, having the ENP voted only for one of these initiatives. If the parliamentary left did not have a divisionist stance and did not look at the proposals not for their merit but for their author, we could already have gained five years in effective policies on active aging and the protection of the elderly. In Portugal, Mrs President and Mrs. Members, the number of elderly people exceeded the number of young people for the first time in 2000. The ageing rate in 2000 was 99 %; in 2010 it was 122 % and in 2019 it was 161 %. Since the beginning of the century, the aging rate in Portugal has increased 62 %. In view of this scenario, it is essential to update and innovate family policies and give particular attention to active aging. With regard to active aging, it is urgent to give him the relevance he deserves, that is, considering the older ones as one of the main axes of society. It is also important to ensure the existence of effective protective mechanisms that safeguard and respond to the particularities, risks and weaknesses of the elderly. Many of these elderly people are people who, due to their special susceptibility, need special and enhanced protection, whether in social, economic, health or justice terms. Decree-Law No 159 / 2015 of 10 August 2015 established the National Commission for the Promotion of Rights and Protection of Children and Youth (CNPDPCJ) and defined their respective missions, assignments, type of internal organization and functioning. Unfortunately, we have witnessed a very significant increase in situations of ill-treatment and violence against our elderly. Our elders are the ones who are most unprotected, being unable to defend their rights. In Portugal, there is no legal structure of a national framework with local proximity to the competent authorities in this area, including municipal chambers and bridge boards, Public Prosecutor's Office, security forces (particularly for older persons'protection programmes ), social and solidarity institutions. The CDS argues that the scope and competence of the current National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Young Persons and their respective Council Protection Committees should be extended to the elderly, with the concrete and real involvement of the Local Social Action Councils ( CLAS ), without prejudice to its current and very relevant role. We know, and regret, that the existing resources of the Child and Youth Protection Committees (PCCJs) are limited, so they must be strengthened with more social service technicians, by social security. Conciliated social networks and social networks of parish can and should also strengthen the extended and restricted committees of CPJs in case monitoring. We therefore defend that the same is done gradually, through pilot projects in various municipalities in the country, for a period of 18 months, so as not to question the response capacity of these CPKJs. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is the proposal that the CDS here brings, with the awareness of the importance it will have, indeed, for the protection of the elderly. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u83	For an intervention, Mrs. Cristina Mendes da Silva, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking the parliamentary groups proposing these initiatives for their work. To speak of the elderly is also to speak of active aging and dignity on the part of a community that lives in democracy, so we must demand for all a state of law, freedom and guarantees, regardless of age and its choices throughout life. the state, which we are all, is required respect, recognition, coexistence, solidarity and care. the Government and the Assembly of the Republic are expected to be the guarantor of education, justice, health, social assistance, decent housing, access to basic services of quality, decent employment and fair wages, allowing access to benefits and old age pensions that provide all older people with quality of life. The strength of a good policy can be decisive for the whole community. We highlight the social networks programme, which enables the collaboration of the central government and the authorities with civil society, with the aim of implementing and implementing the social development plan underlying a social diagnosis, implemented by the Local Social Action Council, through the annual action plans that are realized with projects, activities and actions of social, economic and cultural charism, to improve the lives of all the inhabitants of these territories. The Socialist Party, which launched the seeds and increased social networks throughout the national territory, aims to contribute to an initiative, which has recently entered, for the global re-evaluation of the Social Network Programme, in order to strengthen and improve the social response. For the Socialist Party, to rule on the net is to rule with all and for all. It must respond to the social problems of each territory in an integrated, supportive manner, but also in a specific way throughout the territory. The elderly do not have the same needs throughout Portuguese territory. Responses must be given to the needs of the elderly, but also must be given to the needs of children, young people, adults, persons with disabilities or victims of domestic violence and of all who need support to ensure a dignified and fraternal life among families. These responses are not limited to economic-social responses, but they also extend to educational, cultural, sporting responses, in the area of health, employment, housing, in all areas, to build a more solidarity and fair community, respecting the identity of the territories and populations. There are no equal responses to territories so rich in diversity, yes, adequate and proximity responses, with support measures at national level but of local operationality and responsibility of each institutional partner and of each of us, at personal level. During the last year, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it was possible to highlight the importance of social networks in the work of articulation between partners in promoting an active response to this crisis. The importance of the vitality and strength of social networks was evident, although the response was not equitable throughout the territory and across all networks. Having said this and before the projects presented, it is important to understand some questions. First, where do these proposals fit into the effective responses that the Government has planned in the budget and implemented with the measures and programmes that are under way? Secondly, are you aware of the quantity and nature of the projects being developed on the ground on this subject? Are you aware of the responsibility that social networking partners have, in view of the number of social innovation projects involving thousands of euros and thousands of elderly people? Here I give the example of the various projects of Portugal Social Innovation. We can't do a raza board of everything that's being well worked out, but it makes sense that we also have to do a lot more. However, I am pleased to say that the answers, especially for the elderly, have been a concern of the socialist governments. With regard to Bill No. 540 / XIV / 2. a (IL), which creates a platform for reporting irregular practices, in reality it already exists and is called « SOS line of social security », as well as the e-mail that is inherent to it, and there is also the possibility of using local social networks and intervention forces. It does not seem functional to us and would perhaps overlap with existing responses. Regarding the proposed study, part of the measures are already being carried out by Censuses 2021. With regard to the implementation of ageing policies, the National Strategy for Active and Healthy Ageing 2017 - 2025 is under way. The Liberal Initiative proposes what is already being done, but with more bureaucracy and more weight in the state. The Liberal Initiative is no longer liberal. The other initiatives of the other parliamentary groups seem to receive contributions from the Government Programme, the State Budget, the Recovery and Resilience Plan and the PARES ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme ), recently launched for the tenth time by all of the socialist initiative. These problems must be integrated in the response of social networks that must have the ability to operate at the same level, with the same quality and effectiveness of intervention in all communities in our country. Each territory has its specificities and its forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u85	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u86	I conclude now, Madam President. This is the time to relaunch the networks and enhance their ability to reach all problems, all solutions and all people, including the elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u87	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u88	Finally, I repeat that, for the Socialist Party, to rule on the net is to rule with all and for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u89	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, from the PAN Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From now on, I begin to welcome the various political forces that have brought these different initiatives to debate and this issue of greatest relevance. From a few years to a few years, we cannot forget that Portugal actually has a very significant growth in the older population, and it is expected that Portugal will continue to increase to 2050. This reality obliges us to act in the present but also to anticipate the future. The problems of isolation, social exclusion, among other phenomena, have also increased because of the pandemic, but the problems that need to be answered urgently are also visible, from the very outset the need to combat the isolation and loneliness of the more growing people. The duty of any society is to protect the most fragile, to defend people who, by age, by health, by the situation of isolation, dependence or subject to some form of exclusion, are in a situation of greater vulnerability. This is an obligation of any social state, of any political representation, but, in fact, the most developed people are not all equal and seek equal answers for adults with different experiences and paths is also disrespecting their rights. Therefore, for the NAP, policies for older people should begin before reaching these same ages. We age better and healthier when society invests, since childhood, in the quality of life and in the health of its populations. A policy for older people, in the perspective of the NAP, must be a policy that acts since birth and accompanies all life cycles of people and all the dimensions of their lives, from access to education, housing, health, employment, among many other valences. This has, in fact, to be an integrated policy that, by promoting healthy lifestyles from early on, prevents diseases in the future, but also has to be a policy that, being able to make this paradigm change, takes care of all those who, at present, suffer greater risk of suffering or poverty. In the view of the NAP, any political decision must be heard by the people to whom it serves so that the answers they need can be identified. It is up to the political powers to listen to them and find the best means to respond to their needs, something that does not always happen, especially when we talk about old age. However, we must also define differentiated responses, which respect the human multiplicity that these age groups close because, if one needs institutionalized responses, many need and prefer answers that include a higher level of autonomy, active life, monitoring by proximity services, among many other differentiating factors. Not understanding this reality is disrespecting these people. What we know is that we must reach everyone and everyone, that we must guarantee their safety and support when they are alone, respecting their space but ensuring that they do not feel abandoned and that, regardless of their economic, literary or network of contacts, they all have access to community responses, whether they are hosting in an institution, home support, health support, development or social protection or the unequivocal right to be in their own homes, within their family contexts. Policies are not changed if there are no real changes in the way we look at the more developed people and, in the perspective of the NAP, these people have to be looked at with the respect they deserve, with the recognition for what they have done and continue to do, with the obligation to ensure different responses to different needs as well. We will therefore follow the proposals that demonstrate this political vision and maturity, this respect for every citizen and not those who simply believe that they solve problems with a single and equal formula for all, hoping that, in particular, the progress that this population needs can actually be made. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u91	Mr Diana Ferreira has the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The increase of the average life expectancy should be understood as a civilizational conquest. More years of life should be accompanied by better living conditions, guaranteeing the right to age with rights and dignity. As the CFP has defended and proposed, this is inseparable from the valuation of pensions, the replacement of retirement age for the age of 65, the strengthening of social protection, measures that guarantee full access to health, the right to mobility, access to a public network of support equipment for the elderly and also the fight against isolation and loneliness, both in urban areas and in the most desertified areas. Here, I remember that the disappearance of public services in many parts of the country accentuates the situations of isolation, especially for those who are in a more fragile situation, such as the elderly, and there are also situations of isolation in homes that persist today and that need to be resolved. For the CFP, it is essential to implement measures that create the conditions conducive to the integral development of people throughout their lives and to the right to cultural use, to the occupation of free time with healthy activities, to active participation in social and political life, i.e. measures that oblige the State to assume its responsibilities in the context of its social functions. With regard to the various initiatives under discussion, we leave the following observations. We will follow the initiative proposed by the Greens, considering the public response that they want to strengthen on the various points of their draft resolution. We do not follow the draft law of the IL, establishing a reporting platform, understanding that monitoring and monitoring the homes of the elderly, their working conditions, the work carried out by the different institutions, in particular those in agreement with social security, is inseparable from the strengthening of human resources in social security, from professionals who accompany the institutions, identify the problems, contribute to solving these same problems and, of course, from irregularities or illegalities, take appropriate action with the competent institutions, also in the perspective of solving the problems that exist and not only of pointing out the finger or criminalizing, as it seems to us to be the way of this proposal. We also have doubts about the draft resolution of the IL regarding the quantification of the older economy, not so much about the issue of the preparation of the study itself but more about the objectives underlying it. We also recall that recent reality has shown that an answer based on the social and private sector does not serve the existing needs. What is crucial is to ensure the existence of a public network of social equipment, including homes, in the responsibility of social security that responds to existing deficiencies throughout the national territory. We do not follow up, nor did we agree in the past, the CDS initiative, because the committee and the CPCJ should have a targeted intervention for children and young people. In fact, even for these functions the blanket is very short and, as such, it is necessary to effectively strengthen the means of the CPCJs for these functions that are already assigned. The solution is therefore not to put the elderly on board in this structure—it is not a solution for the elderly and it is not a solution for children and young people. We also recall the resolution adopted at the Assembly of the Republic in 2018, resulting from proposals from the CFP, whose measures become more important at this time: the creation of multidisciplinary teams to accompany and intervene with the elderly in situations of poverty, exclusion or isolation, the creation of a public network of equipment and services for support to the elderly ; the valorization and active participation in associations ; the strengthening of public response in primary health care, home care, physical health care and rehabilitation care, continued care or palliative care, as well as the linkage between primary health care and institutions that receive elderly people in order to adapt the provision of health care to these users. These and other measures have been adopted and what is required is their implementation. The CFP will continue to intervene in this direction. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u93	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mrs Olga Silvestre has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : "Old" is the traveler who started his journey longer and who, step by step, helped build our country. ‘Old’ represents the bridge between the past, the present and the future. Therefore, the country must respect it, gratitude and, above all, must create policies that allow for active, healthy and happy ageing. That's why none can stay behind! The Green draft resolution draws attention to the elderly who live alone or alone. This is a social phenomenon which is sometimes forgotten but of greater importance and which requires measures that minimize the effects of loneliness. The remaining diplomas well demonstrate the need for this vulnerable fringe of the population to be protected. We all know that Portugal is an ageing country, with multiple signs of alarm, from physical health to mental health, from poverty to exclusion. Therefore, we are all called upon to act in defence of the interests of this range of the population, because also here the inadequacy and disability of the State has been laid bare. Fortunately, we are a people of solidarity and early we were able to organize to go where the state fails. It is fair to distinguish the activity of the central state, arrogant, distant from the population and its problems, from the authorities whose proximity and common experience with the populations and their concerns is efficient and gives the necessary answers. We have a history of centuries of solidarity, whether religious or not; the Portuguese were soon able to organize themselves around mutual assistance, mutuality, mercy or IPSS. The pandemic has aggravated social weaknesses, which are visible in the way we deal with the elderly population. It is a fact: the elderly population is excessively institutionalized, sometimes under difficult conditions and with insufficient health care. Here it is necessary to reflect on the new paradigm of aging policies and, no, it is not enough to announce the National Strategy for Active and Healthy Ageing 2017 - 2025. The state's theimosia, which insists on not reviewing the poor financing of the social sector and which condemns the institutions to do what they can and not what they want, makes the care provided to the minimum of the needs of the people, who deserve more than a ceiling, food and hygiene. Our elderly deserve more than living within the four walls. There must be social interaction, family support and adequate responses to an ageing population with increasing needs. The pandemic and the disorientation of the central power, which had now decided in a way that had decided otherwise, or had not decided, to stem the deficiencies of the system. We have seen a sad evidence: the failures of the government have resulted in an unthinkable number of deaths, with particular relevance to the elderly. Incapacitated, the government decided to isolate them in an intolerable 'almost kidnapping', not having advanced with testing, vaccination or rapid intervention teams, subjecting them to physical and mental nefarious isolation. The government, incompetent and in panic, has arrested freedom to whom only the affections and last springes remain. It was inhuman! There was no lack of PSD alerts, but the government's folly led him to make decisions with serious damage to all. Today, instead of making a mistake, the government rejoices at the decrease in numbers and forgets the effects of its incompetence. More of the same: the victims of fires yesterday, the victims of COVID today. They're just quickly forgotten numbers. In the face of such arrogance and indifference, it is difficult to believe that lessons have been learned about what needs to be done: improving the National Health Service; there is a family doctor for all; improving the ERPI(residential structures for elderly people) with adequate facilities and health services; training human resources; promoting the care and provision of genders of proximity; encouraging the maintenance of the elderly in their homes or in the most friendly and human cohabitation; providing informal education throughout life. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, being elderly must mean not the end but the beginning of a new phase; not a fatality but an opportunity for a new and healthy world. The great age should be the transmission bridge of values and experiences for the young age, because this preserves the soul of a people and increases the desire to live one another and to experience others. To treat the elderly well is to build a more inclusive and tolerant society, richer and healthier, in which culture has no place. It is up to the government to take care of the Portuguese with the asymmetries and differences that are peculiar to us, because the interior is different from the coast, the urban areas are different from the rural areas. The elderly need to have a sense of life to continue their journey, which is long, active and healthy. The country has the duty to offer them the destiny of happiness, because the Sun when it is born is for everyone! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u95	Mr José Soeiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent days, in Braga, in Coimbra, in Lisbon, has been prevented from accessing cultural events to those over 65 years old. In the test shows, announced by the Minister of Culture during the phase of defination, these rules have been in force. In fact, at the end of the Eurovision Festival, which will take place on May 22nd in Rotterdam, it has already been announced that the elderly are forbidden to enter, even if they are the group with the highest percentage of vaccination. What nonsense is this? Are we here facing a test balloon for future decisions? Aren't we here watching, in front of our eyes, walking on a fundamental red line? You don't stop being weird, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the country's generalized silence on these decisions. Honor be done to APRE! ( Association of Pensioners, Pensioners, Reformers ), which organized a demonstration against these decisions on Saturday. Will the elders have become smaller in terms of rights? What is the meaning of prioritising older people to now prevent them from participating in social and cultural life and from having freedom of choice? What paternalistic madness is this now the older 65s are not old enough to go out at night? Since when did being older mean having less rights in access to a show? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is grotesque! What's happened is grotesque! So we wanted to leave here not only our indignation but also our warning about this. [[Congratulations from BE.]] I would also like to express myself on the projects that are under discussion here, that is, on strengthening public responses, on the need for hiring professionals, on the role of the State of supervision and providing care for older people, for older people. I refer to the need to have a public care network that includes residential structures for the elderly, but which also includes a strengthening of home support. I would like to stress that the Left Block has already brought several times to the discussion: we need a plan of deinstitutionalization for the elderly who have been creating, in partnership with the authorities, local intervention teams, in order to ensure the adaptation of infrastructures so that people remain as long as possible at home; we need to substantially strengthen home support, not only allowing public support to be provided but also extending this support beyond the issues of personal hygiene, cleaning and meals; we need to strengthen support for informal caregivers, in relation to whom we have seen the numbers of denials and their relationships with regard to the allocation of the informal Care Statute, in addition to pensioners being excluded from access to the support of the caregiver; and we need, above all, to ensure that they are more publicly offered, with certainty, to betting on their relations of autonomy, in particular with informal care projects, with their integrated responses, with their responsiveness, with community responses; and to ensure that they are able to maintain their autonomy, to ensure that they are able to maintain their rights, to ensure that they are able, to be able to maintain their rights, to be strengthened, to be able, to maintain their rights and to be strengthened, to be able. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u97	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I just want to mention what seems obvious to me in this debate. when hearing the left today talk about geriatric residences and aging, it seems that the last six years in Portugal did not exist. They said: "This is necessary! , « That's what's needed! », « The aging rate increases! » But who has been in the government for the last six years was the Socialist Party, with the support of the left and the extreme left! [[PS, BE and ENP protests.]] It was the Socialist Party that looked at the country as aging grew, as the homes deteriorated, as the number of illegal homes increased, and now comes here saying that it is all wrong, that we have to move on one way or another. [[PS protests.]] It was the CFP that was next to the government in the destruction of homes in Portugal! It was the Socialist Party that did so, with the support of the PCP and the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u99	You don't even know what you're talking about! At that time he was on CMTV!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u100	To close the debate, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the initiative of the Greens Ecological Party, we are discussing today the situation in which many of our elderly people live. However, we would like to point out two aspects. The first is that this is the time for this debate, anticipating problems that may arise in the future, so that no one will know, that no one has said, that no one has warned. The Greens are here today reminding us that pension and reform needs to be valued, removing the elderly from the poverty situation, which needs to be invested in the National Health Service (NSS) to ensure the elderly's right to health, with differentiated care and taking into account their specific conditions, and that follow-up teams need to be strengthened to signal the elderly who live isolated. The Government has an obligation to respect the rights of those who have worked their entire lives, cared for children and grandchildren and gave themselves to the construction of a better society. The second aspect has to do with rejection of any infantilization of the elderly. [[Pause.]] Mr. President, I don't know if you realize you're very loud in the room.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u102	Madam Member, I will interrupt you for a moment. There are many Members who are standing and who have to do their best to sit or leave. [[Pause.]] You want to continue, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. As I was saying, the second aspect has to do with rejection of any infantilization of the elderly. There are thousands of elderly people who are self-sufficient, who have their organized lives in their homes, close to children, friends, neighbors, and who want to pursue, while they achieve this autonomy. There are elderly people who continue to take care of grandchildren or dependents, such as their spouses. With the epidemic, the rights of the elderly were limited slightly beyond the acceptable one, as has already been said today, in the name of a greater well. As if from 65 or 70 years of age they lost all faculties and discernment! We must respect your wishes! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We welcome the broad consensus here today. We therefore hope that we will turn from words to acts, with the approval of the recommendations proposed by the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u104	We have thus reached the end of the fourth item on our agenda, so we will move on to the voting period. As you know, we will have a vote that will be taken by electronic vote and will demand that the Members who are in the Chamber vote first, which will then leave to give way to the Members who are out there waiting. I therefore ask that all of this be done with maximum serenity. Let us then begin the voting, with the Draft Vote No 562 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, CH, IL, PCP and PSD members ) — Regret of the death of Julião Sarmento. I ask Secretary Sofia Araújo to proceed with their reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u105	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: "He died last May 4th, at the age of 72, Julião Sarmento, the main name of the contemporary plastic arts of Portugal. Born in Lisbon, on November 4, 1948, Julião Manuel Tavares Sena Sarmento began his artistic activity in the 1970s, while attending the course of Architecture at the School of Fine Arts in Lisbon, which ends in 1974. »...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u106	Madam Secretary, I ask you to stop reading the draft vote. We are voting and, above all, this is a vote of regret. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who sit or leave. to those who sit down, I ask you to keep quiet. You would like to continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. I begin reading the draft vote: « After working in the State Secretariat of Culture, soon after the Revolution, where he helped change artistic practices in Portugal, it is one of the names chosen by Ernesto de Sousa for the ‘Alternative Zero : Polemical Trends in Contemporary Portuguese Art’, which, in 1977, brings together conceptual works that marked the national artistic scene from the end of the 60s, together with Helena Almeida, Álvaro Lapa, Clara Menéres, Ángelo de Sousa or João Vieira, among others. With a diverse and multifaceted work, in which it stands out in drawing, painting, photography or video, and a bold and provocative vision about the body and desire, Julian Sarmento was influenced by the most advanced currents of world art, for which he contributed a career with strong international pendor, well witnessed by the participations in the 1982 and 1987 editions of the Documenta, of Kassel, or in the Biennial of São Paulo, in 2002. Julião Sarmento was, in fact, one of the most prestigious Portuguese plastic artists and international projection — a projection that was fundamental to making known new generations of Portuguese artists — being his work represented in numerous public and private collections, abroad and Portugal. Talent and generous, he also stood out as a collector, giving to the city of Lisbon an important collection that integrates painting, objects, installations, videos and sculptures of Portuguese and foreign artists he has known throughout his life. After, in 1994, being thanked with the degree of Officer of the Military Order of Sant’Iago da Espada, the national consecration of Julião Sarmento arrived in 1997, when he was chosen to represent Portugal in the Venice Biennale. In 2014, he received the award from the International Association of Art Critics. With the disappearance of Julião Sarmento, Portugal loses one of its most innovative and multifaceted plastic artists, someone who decisively marked the panorama of the arts in the second half of the twentieth century and the beginning of the 21st century. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Julian Sarmento, conveying to his family and friends the deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u108	I inform you that are present in the various family galleries of Julião Sarmento : Isabel Sarmento, Laura Sarmento, Cristina Guerra, Duarte Sarmento, Elizabeth Ross. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, with the absence of a Member who did not register Cristina Rodrigues.]] Let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We passed the Vote Project No 563 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport and subscribed by PS and PSD Members ) — Congratulations on the national results at the European Judo Championship. Before we proceed to the vote, I inform you that the Telma Monteiro athletes, Rochele Nunes, Barbara Timo and João Crisostomo are present in the galleries, as well as Prof. José Robalo, director of formation of the Portuguese Judo Federation. [[General applause, stand up.]] We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, with the absence of a Member who did not register Cristina Rodrigues.]] The vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote No 566 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, and IL, and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira — Congratulations on the consecration of the Sporting Club of Portugal as a European futsal champion ). [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, with the absence of a Member who did not register Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u109	Long live a Sporting!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u110	Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 620 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Replacement of frequencies. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL were rejected, votes against the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from BE and CH.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 640 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — establishes the legal regime for the creation, modification and extinction of strawberries. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PCP, PAN and ENP.]] We proceed to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralisation and Local Power on the Proposal for a Law No 68 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Defines the legal regime for the creation, modification and extinction of fragesias and the Bill No 640 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — establishes the legal regime for the creation, modification and extinction of strawberries. I note that the Government has withdrawn its initiative in favour of the replacement text. Let us then vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the CH.]] Mrs. Members, the speciality vote in Article 26 is followed. o — Limitation of successive renewal of mandates — of the replacement text. [[Pause.]] In accordance with Article 118 ( 2 ). Article 168 ( 6 ( b ) and ( b ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and Article 94 ( 4 ). that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, this vote shall be taken by means of an electronic vote, which shall not be approved by a majority of two-thirds of the Members present, provided that it exceeds the absolute majority of the Members in effective office. The services have shown us that this vote is electronic, but they have not prepared the screens for it, so I ask them to do so. [[Pause.]] With the ladies. Members who are present at this time in the Chamber will then proceed to the vote on Article 26. that of that replacement text. I'm asking the ladies. Members who register their sense of vote in the computer terminal—I myself will vote in this way—and who, at the same time, stand up as I ask the different ways of voting. I begin by asking who votes against. [[Pause.]] They voted against the Members of the CFP and the ENP. Now I ask who abstains. [[Pause.]] Member Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Joaquim Barreto, Luís Soares and Maria Joaquina Matos were abstained. I ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] They voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, and IL.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u111	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u112	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, we are in the middle of a vote. Are you asking for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u113	Mr President, it is to inform that my electronic system and that of Mr Telmo Correia has not worked, and as such, we have not been able to register our sense of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u114	In order not to interrupt the vote, I would ask that all this information be transmitted to the Bureau by the respective parliamentary leaders when we complete this process. Mrs Ana Paula Vitorino is asking for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u115	Mr. President, I was wrong to report. I wanted to have voted in favour, but I wrongly charged 'abstention'.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u116	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u117	Me too!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u118	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who have already voted in favour of leaving the Chamber to give rise to the other Members. Ladies and gentlemen, so that we can continue the electronic vote on the same lines. [[Pause.]] I recall that we are voting on Article 26. that of the replacement text, which we adopted recently. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who feel that we can continue this vote. [[Pause.]] Quiet, very quiet. That's what we need. [[Pause.]] I ask the branches of the benches to inform me when they are in a position to vote. I see some of you. Ladies and gentlemen are entering the Chamber with a very slow step, so it is natural that we are taking a long time in this process. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then vote. Those who fail to register will inform the Bureau at the end of this second stage of the vote. I begin by asking who votes against. [[Pause.]] They voted against the Members of the CFP and the ENP. Now I ask who abstains. [[Pause.]] There were no abstentions. I ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] They voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN. Obviously, I'm asking all of you. Members who confirm their sense of vote in the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Starting on my left side, I ask the gentlemen. Members who have not been able to vote through the electronic system to indicate it to the Bureau, saying their name and their sense of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u119	Mr President, Sonia Fertuzinhos and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u120	The other Mrs. Members of the PS board who have not been able to vote, please state the name and the meaning of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u121	Mr. President, Vera Braz and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u122	Mr President, Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u123	Mr. President, Nuno Sá and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u124	Mr President, Raul Castro and I also voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u125	Please indicate at the PSD bench who has not been able to vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u126	Mr. President, Paulo Rios de Oliveira and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u127	At the rest of the bench, who has not been able to vote, please say so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u128	Mr President, with regard to the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, the votes of Mr Pedro Morais Soares and mine shall be considered in favour of the vote; Mr Cecilia Meireles and Mr Telmo Correia have not been able to vote in the electronic system, but they also vote in favour; and Mrs Ana Rita Bessa's vote is wrongly against, but it is also in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u129	I ask the services to, after hearing all these statements and registering all electronic votes, put the final result of the vote, in the speciality of Article 26. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, he obtained the necessary two-thirds majority, having recorded 182 votes in favour (PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL), 12 votes against (PCP and PEV) and 4 abstentions (Ps Joaquim Barreto, Luís Soares and Maria Joaquina Matos and Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u130	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u131	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u132	Mr. President, it is to indicate that you are. Members Joana Mortágua and Luís Monteiro were unable to vote, but who voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u133	It is therefore noted that two more Members voted in favour, and therefore 184 votes in favour. We move on to the joint vote of two applications submitted by BE and the CFP, requesting the full vote in the speciality of proposals for the addition of Articles 11. o -A, from BE, and 22. o -A is 24. o -A from the PCP, to the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralisation and Local Power, on the Proposal for a Law No 68 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) and Bill 640 / XIV / 2. a ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, they were adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Let us now move on to a period of intervention on these matters. Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u134	Mr President, we need to make a waiting compass, because Mrs Paula Santos was one of the first to vote and leave the Chamber, now returning.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u135	So while we wait for Mrs Paula Santos, she will first use the floor of Mr José Maria Cardoso of the BE Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What the Left Block brings to a vote by the plenary is an article presented as new, Article 11. o -A, which deals with the measurement of the political will for the creation of the parish by the population, exactly in this sense. That is, in an act of direct participatory democracy, we believe that the measurement of the will and safeguarding the interests of the people must be done by a popular consultation, also by a popular consultation. in this sense, we defend the existence of a local referendum, of a consultative nature, including in the Organic Law No. 4 / 2000 of 24 August. Why do we present and what justifies, in essence, this appeal? It is true that the assessment by the parish assembly as a representative body of the population is not at issue, which is legitimate and is provided for in Article 11. we consider that this assessment should be extended to the direct will of the population in an act of participatory democracy. Therefore, we present this appeal. But there is another reason for doing so, which is this: in coherence with the constant in Article 10. The proposal for a fregetal creation, which forms part of the proposal under discussion, is made possible, and very well, that the process may be expounded on the initiative of the citizen, by means of a request signed by a certain number of voters of the parish, in accordance with Article 12. the Act No. 75 / 2013 of 12 September, which says, including, that, in fregueses with less than 5000 voters, this subscription is made by a number of electors equivalent to at least 30 times the number of members of the assembly of parish or, when it comes to freguess with more than 5000 voters, by a number of electors equivalent to at least 50 times the number of members of the assembly of freguess. However, we believe that if this prerogative is included in the proposal, the assessment and confirmation of the case must also be part of it. It does not make sense to have a process that has been pursued by the citizens, whose approval is, or is not, limited to the deliberations of the parish assembly. We therefore bring the plenary to the vote on this article, because we consider it correct as a principle of participatory democracy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u137	I'll ask you again. Ladies and gentlemen standing outside the Chamber. Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We understand that the replacement text on the legal regime for the creation, modification and extinction of the parish, which we shall vote in a moment's time, falls short of what the demands of the people are and does not create the conditions for the extinction of the parish as the local bodies and the people defend. We always defend that one thing is to define the criteria for the creation of new frequencies that have never existed and another is to allow an exceptional regime in which the criteria that should be underlying this exceptional regime would be the position and will expressed by the people. This is why the CFP today calls on the plenary to vote on two of its proposals on this subject. First of all, on a process of replacement of freguesis, in which we have created a truly transitional and exceptional procedure which allows all the frequencies in which the populations defend their replacement to be restored, since, with the text that is the vote, many of them will not see the light of the day by the criteria to which they are subject in the proposal under discussion. And a second, which provides for the possibility of holding interim elections, making it clear, when the parish is created, that there is the possibility of such interim elections immediately. The CFP on this matter has been very clear. From the very first moment, it has brought concrete proposals and solutions to solve this problem. The fragesias have been extinct for eight years, the problems continue in the territory and the populations claim that they are restored.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u139	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u140	I'll finish. It had not been the opposition of the PS, the PSD, the CDS, the CH and the IL, we could have approved here in the Assembly of the Republic, a regime that would allow the replacement of the frequencies, and in time of the actual elections to be held this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u141	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u142	This is a matter that is on the table and, on our part, we will continue to fight alongside the people so that their will be respected. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u143	Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we have come to the end of a long discussion process on a subject that has affected thousands and thousands of people. Having participated actively in it, I acknowledge the commitment of all parliamentary groups and of the only representatives of the party (DURP) to what were the conclusions obtained. We have not always agreed, but the truth is that we have always, as our main objective, had to respond in a clear and best way to the needs of the people. We have done about a dozen hearings, we have heard all the entities that relate, on a daily basis, to the bodies representing the fregueses, and we have always been told by all the parties that should be respected for the will of the organs. That is why I find it strange that today's proposals are being put here that the representative bodies elected by the citizens are no longer able to pronounce themselves. It was therefore mentioned by Mr José Maria Cardoso of BE that there is the possibility of a citizen initiative in order to present a proposal that would allow the process to be pushed forward. The position of the Socialist Party, from the very first moment, is to recognize the problem and we want to solve it. But these are processes that have taken a long time now and will take some time to mature and become consistent so that they can have better results than those they had in previous times. The Socialist Party has committed itself and complied. For this reason, today we will vote in favour of a proposal which we consider respects and responds to the concerns of the people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u145	Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the replacement text that we have just voted on and on the amendments that we will then vote on, it is good to realize that this is a reversal, a reversal of the reform of the parish in 2013. Therefore, we are not voting for a real legal regime of creation, modification and extinction of fregueses which aims to correct the map according to a reality that is dynamic, that is the territory. What we are voting here today and what we are going to choose is between an absolutely radical version of the reversal of the reform of the parish and a mitigated version, I would say, perhaps regrettably, of the reversal of the reform of the parish. And this reform—if you have won the CFP proposals already in time, if you do not have 180 days from here— will end up in the creation of many ferries, probably hundreds of ferries. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with very different views of decentralization. In my view decentralization is not synonymous with more state, decentralization is not a proliferation of political positions behind political positions, political entities behind political entities. Decentralisation is done when the central State has fewer financial resources and passes them to the municipal chambers or to the parish. That's decentralization. It is not the central state to be exactly as it is, and increasingly fattened, with increasingly local authorities. That's it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is decentralisation of politics: political duties are increasing and the populations remain exactly the same. So even though I may be the only voice to say it, it is not with us that there will be proliferation of public entities and proliferation of political positions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u147	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As far as we are concerned, this House is now losing one more opportunity to, once and for all, respond to all of the problems inherited from the PSD/CDS-PP government in the area of the extinction of strawberries. As we are all reminded, the so-called "administrative reform", as the PSD and CDS-PP then called it, has only aimed at extinguishing a very significant universe of frequesias, including frequesias whose authentic organs have spoken against, in their process of aggregation or consultation. That is why the Greens' proposal intended to restore the frequencies which had obtained a negative opinion on their aggregation and which therefore deserved opposition from the people. On the other hand, it was also intended to give the possibility to the few Fregues who obtained a positive opinion regarding aggregation for, past this period and in view of the experience of recent years, an assessment of the advantages and disadvantages that aggregations have brought to the populations and their quality of life can be made. It happens that, as we already understand, the government and the PS have opted for another way. It is a path that, in our view, does not solve all the problems that required answers, since it will prevent or prevent many frequencies from being restored, if the populations so understand. For this reason, for the Greens, what was required was to create a regime based on a basic assumption or which had the will of the people as a guiding lighthouse. That is exactly why the Greens Ecological Party does not vote in favour of the proposal presented by the Government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u149	Finally, Mr José Cancela Moura of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no new parishioners in the upcoming elections due to the PCP, especially because of the demagogy with which you participated in the discussion. It is that the CFP has launched an initiative to make numbers and withdraw political gains and has presented a requirement to precipitate the approval of the law without discussion. Fortunately or unfortunately, in a complete lack of loyalty,... [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] ... in the middle of the discussion, requested the vote for plenary. But the country does not need numbers or back-up games; it needs decisions. The PCP feeds these games and now wants to force the country to enter electoral mode for four years — an electoral circus! — and to make each board an electoral committee. The PCP proposes to reverse everything, all frequencies without exception, as seen in all its proposals. Therefore, he wants everything for everyone, more or less to « the sun in the air and rain in the nabal». But this time he had a chance, because he is the victim of the narrative itself. If it were such an important thing, I would have taken you to the management negotiating table. He had six Budgets and so many other opportunities to do so, and he didn't do anything! With regard to the Left Block, it makes no sense the referendum because it is impracticable and clearly unnecessary: firstly, because the criterion of political will is made by those who are democratically and legitimately elected, namely the assemblies of Fregue; secondly, the popular consultation would be impracticable because there would be no Constitutional Court to arrive at more than 4000 questions of assemblies of fregue that do not exist. Participatory democracy, fortunately, does not run out only in referendums. In this case, the PSD proposed — and it was approved by the vote of the Bloc — that the electorate citizens could also have the initiative to create frequencies. This is a contradiction on the part of the Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u151	Thank you, sir. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u152	I will finish, Mr. President. We, PSD, have believed and trusted our autarchs and the autarchs of all other parties, including the autarchs of the Block. Therefore, as they have legal competence, we know that they are, by law and by law, that eventually they can create the fragesias. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u153	That's a bad conscience!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u154	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the speciality vote. Let us begin by voting on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left to add an article 11. o -A to the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and CH and votes against BE, PAN, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: Article 11The assessment of the political will for the creation of the parish by population 1 — The measurement of the will and safeguarding the interests of the respective populations in the parish concerned is made by popular consultation, through a local consultative referendum. 2 — The arrangements laid down in the Organic Law No 4/2000 of 24 August shall be applied to carry out the referendum with the necessary adaptations.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u155	We are now voting on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 22. o -A to the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and votes against the PCP, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: Article 22a Fregue replacement process 1 — Extinct frequencies are returned by application of Law No 22/2012 of 30 May and Law No 11-A/2013 of 11 January, with the exception of those whose deliberative bodies and the municipality in which they were incorporated have pronounced favourably in the proceedings regulated by Law No 22/2012 of 30 May. 2 — Other extinct frequencies may also be returned under the same procedure or supported the replacement of those referred to in paragraph 1 by a reasoned proposal of the municipal deliberative bodies and of the present parish, whose deliberations must be taken at extraordinary public meetings of the parish assembly and of the municipal assembly expressly convened for this purpose. 3 — The replacement results in the possibility of transmission of contractual positions, the registration of any property, rights and obligations or other acts to be carried out in court or outside of it, in order to recover the conditions which existed prior to the extinction of the refund. 4 — The installation committees of the repayable fees shall be constituted and shall exercise their powers in general.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u156	The vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP was followed by the amendment of Article 24. o -A to the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and CH and votes against BE, PCP, PEV, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: Article 24a Mid-term Elections 1 — The interim elections to which they take place after the replacement or the creation of new frequencies under this Act shall take place within 60 days of the verification of the fact that they result, in accordance with the regime provided for in the electoral law of local authorities' bodies. 2 — It is up to the member of the Government responsible for the protection of local authorities to mark the day on which the interim elections are held.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u157	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality in the Commission. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, with the absence of a Member who did not register Cristina Rodrigues.]] The final overall vote of the replacement text is followed, submitted by the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralisation and Local Power, on the Proposal for a Law No 68 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) and Bill 640 / XIV / 2. a ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PAN and IL, votes against the CDS-PP and abstained from BE, PCP, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u158	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u159	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u160	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u161	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u162	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u163	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u164	Mr President, it is to announce that I intend to make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u165	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Ventura asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u166	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u167	Be registered. We will move on to the general vote of Bill No. 691 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the protection of the insured person by prohibiting discriminatory practices, improving access to credit and insurance contracts by persons who have surpassed aggravated health risks, by granting the right to forget. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] This bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 826 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recognizes the right to forget about persons who have overcome aggravated health situations and guarantees them equal rights and non-discrimination under credit and insurance contracts by making the first amendment to Law No 46 / 2006 of 28 August. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We proceed to the vote on the application by the PSD, which is down to the Committee on Economic Affairs, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, without a 30-day vote of the Bill No 718 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Alter the horizontal property regime, making the eighth amendment to the Civil Code and to the amendment to Decree-Law No 268 / 94 of 25 October with subsequent amendments. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Thus, the vote on Bill No. 718 / XIV / 2 is adversely affected. a ( PSD ). We will now vote on the request by BE, which is down to the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, without a 30-day vote of the Bill No. 724 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extraordinary arrangements for supporting the maintenance of housing and commercial spaces during the mitigation and recovery period of SARS-CoV-2( 6 ). the amendment to Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] The vote on draft resolution No 914 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Strengthening support measures for elderly people who live alone or alone. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This initiative is down to 10. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 540 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Establishment of a reporting platform for irregular or illegal practices in residential structures for the elderly. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the NAP, the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 117 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — Ensure access to one geriatric residence for all elderly persons. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions from the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 687 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — For the study and foundation of policies aimed at older people, promotion of active aging and protection of vulnerabilities, including violence against older people. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL and abstentions of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Members, it is now important to vote on draft resolution No 1250 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Enlarge the scope and competence of the current National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] Resolution Project No. 1215 / XIV / 2. a ( CFP ) — proposes the extension of social support to cultural workers. The CDS-PP called for a point vote on this initiative. Let us therefore begin by voting on points 4 and 6. [[Voted, with votes against the PS, votes were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Let us now vote in favour of points 1, 2, 3, 5, 7 and 8. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS were adopted.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 909 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the urgent implementation of measures for the depollution and environmental recovery of the Nabão river basin. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u168	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u169	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u170	Mr President, the remaining draft resolutions can now be voted on together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u171	Therefore, we shall vote jointly, in general, the Resolution Projects Nos. 918 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the depollution of the Nabão River, 981 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — By the defense and protection of the Nabão River, 1142 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Against the pollution of the Nabão River, 1186 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take all necessary and urgent measures with a view to resolving pollution in the Nabon River and 1258 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Protect the Nabon River, reduce pollution and recover ecosystems. [[Subject to the vote, they were adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Mrs. Members, the draft resolutions we just voted on are down to 11. the Commission. We now have to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1125 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Measures to preserve habitats and safeguard threatened endemic species. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEV, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the IL.]] This initiative is also down to 11. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 1252 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — To improve the conservation status of native wildlife in Portuguese territory. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft resolution we just voted down to 11. the Commission. The vote on draft resolution No 1202 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the implementation of support measures for workers of the National Scientific and Technological System. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] Let us now vote for draft resolution No 1017 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — The inclusion of sport in access to funds of the Recovery and Resilience Plan and the Plurianual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1193 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — By taking up all forms of sports and opening to the public of stadiums, pavilions and other sports premises during April. We're already in May, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, but let's vote for it in the same way. Maybe it's April next year... [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be very difficult to carry out this project, as we will be in May, but...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u172	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u173	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u174	Mr President, I would like to announce a statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u175	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1184 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government a robust investment in education within a learning recovery plan and the personal and social development of students. I believe that this should be a robust and non-strengthening investment, as is the case with this title. Let us then vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CH and IL abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u176	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u177	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u178	Mr President, I just want to announce a robust statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u179	It is recorded, Mr President, that it will present a robust declaration of vote. [[Laughing.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 1219 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — The urgent establishment of an intensive care unit in the West Hospital Centre. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, this draft resolution that we have just voted down to 9. the Commission, but I think that there are Members and Members. Members who have a different meaning of vote than their bench, so I ask them to inform the Bureau and to give their names.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u180	Mr. President, if I may, I would like to announce that the Members elected by Leiria, Raul Miguel Castro, Elza Pais, João Paulo Pedrosa and I, Sara Velez, voted in favour of the Resolution Project No. 1219 / XIV / 2. a (BE) and will present a written declaration of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u181	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1248 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — For urgent intervention at the West Hospital Centre. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Elza Pais, João Paulo Pedrosa, Raul Miguel Castro and Sara Velez and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, this draft resolution also goes down to 9. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u182	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u183	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u184	Mr President, I would just like to announce the presentation of a statement of vote by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u185	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now vote for draft resolution No 1209 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to ensure the modernisation and public control of the state emergency communications network. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1227 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government proceed to the rescue for the State of the Integrated System for the Portugal Emergency and Security Network ( SIRESP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 1218 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthens the protection of parents in case of gestational loss. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] It must be the first time that an initiative by a Member who is not present is adopted unanimously. It remains for Parliament's annals. Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the National Defence Commission on draft resolutions Nos 1135 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure the prompt issuance and dispatch of the former fighter and widower card to all its beneficiaries, 1200 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government urgently issue and send the card of former combatants and the card of widow or widow of former combatants to whom it falls within the scope of Law No 46 / 2020, and 1204 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — For the urgent issue and dispatch of the card of former fighter and widower or widower of former fighter and adoption of the measures necessary to ensure free intermodal pass and entry into national museums and monuments. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, it is important now to vote on a request by the PCP for a full vote in the speciality of Bill No 381 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates a cost support measure with electricity in the agricultural and agricultural sectors ( green electricity ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then proceed to the vote on the special...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u186	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u187	Mr Deputy, there has been a request for a lawyer that has been approved and, if approved, there may be interventions...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u188	Mr. President, I'm sorry, there are two demands. There is also one of the Left Block in relation to the same initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u189	So we must also vote on the request, submitted by the Block of the Left in the same sense, i.e. to advocate by the plenary of the vote on the speciality of proposals for amendment and addition to the Bill No 381 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates a cost support measure with electricity in the agricultural and agricultural sectors ( green electricity ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Having approved the two requirements, we shall proceed to the vote in the supplementary script, which is the vote in the speciality of Bill No 381 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates a cost support measure with electricity in the agricultural and agricultural sectors ( green electricity ). I wonder if there are no interventions prior to the votes of the supplementary script... [[Pause.]] Not being there, I'm very comforted. Let us then begin by voting Article 1 ( 1 ). o [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS, PAN and IL.]] Let us now vote on Article 1 ( 2 ). the same bill. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS, PAN and IL.]] The vote on Article 2 shall follow. o [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS, PAN and IL.]] Let us now vote on Article 3 ( 1 ). o [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS, PAN and IL.]] We shall vote on Article 3 (2). o [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS, PAN and IL.]] A proposal from the Left Block amending Article 3 ( 3 ( a ) should now be voted on. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PEV and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[(a) 20% of the value of the invoice for agricultural holdings up to 50 hectares in free air and or 10 hectares of protected crops or agricultural holdings with up to 80 normal heads;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u190	Let us now vote on Article 3 ( 3 ( a ). the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS, PAN and IL.]] The vote was followed by the vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, amending Article 3 ( 3 ( b ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PAN and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: (b) 10% of the value of the invoice for agricultural holdings with an area exceeding 50 hectares and or 10 hectares of protected crops, agricultural holdings with more than 80 normal and cooperative heads and producer organisations.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u191	We shall vote on Article 3 ( 3 ( b ). the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS, PAN and IL.]] The vote was followed by the vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, adding Article 3 ( 4 ). the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PAN and the IL were rejected, votes against the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — Support provided for in the previous paragraph may not exceed eligible maximum ceilings according to the needs of each type of culture and to be defined by the Government within three months of the entry into force of this Act.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u192	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 4 ( 1 ). the draft law.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u193	Mr President, I am sorry but I believe that the result of the previous vote is of approval of the proposal of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u194	The CDS abstained, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u195	There are 112 votes against, but there are 113 votes in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u196	So let us repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u197	In fact, Mr President, there is a draw since Mrs Cristina Rodrigues is not present. So there are 112 votes in favour and 112 votes against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u198	We shall repeat the vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, adding Article 3 ( 4 ). the, so there is no doubt. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members in this vote recorded the votes against the PS, the PAN and the IL, i.e. 112 against the abstention of the CDS-PP, which are 5 votes, and 113 votes in favour...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u199	I am sorry, Mr President, that is 112 votes in favour, because there is a lack of a Member who does not register Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u200	Mr President, that is what I am saying: there are 112 votes against and 113 votes in favour, so it has been adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u201	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u202	Don't you? Oh, my God! O Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u203	Mr President, I also think that would be the best result, but, as Mrs Cristina Rodrigues lacks, there are only 112 votes in favour and not 113. So there is a second draw and the proposal is finally rejected.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u204	That's right, sir. Only in the parliamentary groups is the rule of directors voting for all Members. So the proposal was rejected by a tie. We could make a new vote, to see if someone was getting away, but, as we've already done two... I see my initial instinct was correct. So be it, ladies. Members, having found a new draw, the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, of addition to Article 3 ( 4 ). the draft Law No. 381 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) was rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on Article 4 ( 1 ). the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS, PAN and IL.]] We shall vote on Article 4 (2). o [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS, PAN and IL.]] The vote on Article 4 ( 3 ) shall follow. o [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS, PAN and IL.]] We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, adding an article 4. o -A — Transition of public energy support. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and IL were rejected, votes against BE and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from CH.]] [[By the first quarter of 2022, the Government produced the necessary regulations for the annual accounting of support for green electricity and set targets for the gradual reduction of public support for green gas oil for the following years, thereby promoting the energy transition.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u205	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by BE to add Article 4. o-B — Energy transition support programme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the NAP and the IL were rejected, votes against the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the CH.]] [[It was as follows: The Government established until the first quarter of 2022 a programme to support the energy transition of small and medium-sized agriculture and family agriculture, promoting the progressive decarbonisation by optimizing consumption and replacing fossil energy with renewable energy.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u206	We shall vote for Article 5. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS, PAN and IL.]] We shall vote for Article 6. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS, PAN and IL.]] We shall vote, in a global final vote, on Bill No. 381 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates a cost support measure with electricity in the agricultural and agricultural sectors ( green electricity ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS, PAN and IL.]] The two oral explanations of vote, the PCP and the PSD are followed, which have been announced in due course. I recall that oral explanations of vote cannot be announced at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u207	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u208	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u209	Mr President, I am sorry, it is not about this, it is about a previous matter. It is merely to say that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on the replacement text submitted by the National Defence Commission on draft resolutions on the amendments to the regime of the former fighter, in which the PS Parliamental Group abstained. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u210	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u211	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u212	Mrs. PAN, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u213	Mr President, it is to be announced that, with regard to the vote on this draft CFP law, the overall final vote we have just made, the NAP will present a written declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u214	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u215	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u216	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u217	Mr President, for the purposes of registration, I wanted to ask that my presence in the votes be considered.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u218	Mr Jerome de Sousa is present, as can be seen and heard. Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us then take the oral explanations of vote. Mrs Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor for a statement of vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralisation and Local Power, on the Proposal for a Law No 68 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) and Bill No. 640 / XIV / 2. a ( BE).
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this statement of vote at the end of this procedure, we would like to say that we abstained in the vote on the replacement text, because we believe that it is far from what would be necessary to correspond to the demands of the populations, with regard to the replacement of extinct fragesias, when that is the will of the population and of the local authorities. The PSD, the CDS, the PS, the PAN, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival are responsible for these extinct fregueses, when the populations so defended, when they voted against the PCP initiative, which presented concrete solutions in this sense and in time these autarchic elections. This was the essential aspect in this matter. The approved text prevents many of the parish from being restored, even when it was his will. This whole process has been characterized both by the PS and by the PSD, now by the late delivery of the proposal, now by the protrusion of its debate in the committee, so that in fact good port on this matter can be reached. What has been approved points out a great deal forward with regard to the replacement of the strawberries. from the PCP, we would like to make it clear that this is an extremely important issue, whose resolution, once again, these parties have prevented. The Assembly of the Republic today, with the rejection of the CFP's proposals, did not allow the parish, where that would be the will of the people, to be restored. This is an essential issue to which the CFP will continue to speak. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u220	You have the floor for a vote on the same vote, Mrs Isura Morais, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 28 December 2020, the Government's proposal for a law defining the legal regime for the creation, modification and extinction of fragesias was introduced, which determined that its discussion and vote would take place in the year in which local elections will take place. I would like to highlight the main amendments that we have tabled to this proposal for a government law and which have been adopted: the creation of a transitional regime which is more expeditious to the point where the territorial map of the parish has been corrected in 2013 ; the clarification of the law which sets limits on the renewal of autonomous mandates; the extension of the electoral citizens, which are included in the electoral census of the parish, the possibility of presenting proposals for the creation of new parish; the recognition of the principle of the absolute majority of members in the effectiveness of functions in the assemblies of the parish and of the majority in the municipal assemblies for the purpose of deliberation to have an effect on proposals for the creation of the parish instead of the qualified majority required. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has always stated that it was available to improve the current map of the parish, made a thorough monitoring and evaluation of the previous 2013 reform and after the time has elapsed enough for it to be made sustainably, in a temporal space never less than two autarchic mandates. After a serious and enlightening debate, for which we held, in which this matter was duly studied, within the competent parliamentary committee, the PSD, faithful to its commitment, in an approach that posed territorial inequalities and aimed the defence of local power, corresponded to the wishes of the people, guided by national interest, and contributed decisively to a better framework law. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u222	Mr.Secretariat Sofia Araújo has the floor to report on some opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u223	Mr President, I inform the House that opinions have been received from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. The first opinion is to authorize Mr José Moura Soeiro ( BE ) to testify as a witness in the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, under Case 4499 / 200T8MTS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u224	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u225	The next opinion is to authorize Mr. João Gomes Marques ( PSD ) to testify in writing at the Court of Justice of the County of Leiria, within the framework of case 272 / 17.1JACBR.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u226	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u227	The next opinion is to authorize Mrs Joana Lima ( PS ) to testify in writing at the Central Criminal Instruction Court — Judge 1, within the framework of the 322 / 20.4JELSB case.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u228	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u229	The last opinion is to authorize Mrs Cristina Rodrigues (Nsc. ) to testify as a witness at the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, in the context of case 15143 / 20.6T8LSB.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u230	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Paragraphs 30 to 36 of the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic, I Series, concerning plenary meetings held on 16, 17, 18 and 22 December 2020 and 6, 7 and 8 January 2021 are hereby approved. [[Subject to the vote, they were adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] You have the word of Mrs. Secretary Sofia Araújo, to give us an account of some file.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u231	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr. President, Bill No. 833 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and draft resolutions Nos 1264 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1265 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 1266 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 10. the Commission. I also use to inform the House that they were present at today's plenary session, by video conference, Mrs. Lara Martinho of the PS, elected by the electoral circle of the Azores, and Mr. Sérgio Marques of the PSD, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-14.u232	The next plenary session will take place next Tuesday at 14 a.m. and 30 minutes. from 1 to 15 April and from 16 to 30 April 2021. of the second point is the discussion of the Bill No 83 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Electronic Communications Act and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1972, establishing the European Electronic Communications Code, and draft Law No 818 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — Amends Article 27 ( 1 ). the, by adding points 3 and 4 of Article 53. that of the Law of Electronic Communications. of the third point is the discussion of the Proposals for Law No 84 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the new Organic Law of the Bases of the Organization of Armed Forces and 85 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Change the National Defence Act, and the Bills No. 792 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Change the National Defence Act ( second amendment to Organic Law No 1 - B / 2009 of 7 July ) and 793 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Alter the Organic Law of Bases for the Organization of Armed Forces ( second amendment to the Organic Law No 1 -A / 2009 of 7 July ). of the fourth point is the assessment of the Bill No 65 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends Article 120. that of the Code of Municipal Property Tax approved in Annex to Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November in the wording given by Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March. of the fifth point is the assessment of the Bill No 71 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — At the end of geographical blockade and discrimination in electronic sales for consumers in autonomous regions. We've reached the end of this plenary. Thank you very much for the cooperation of all. Good weekend and till Tuesday. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 30 minutes.]]
