ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] It is with joy that I see this normal plenary session, with Members able to occupy their positions throughout the whole session. Therefore, this means that we are working well in the fight against COVID-19. It is a fight which, however, should be said, is not yet fully won, but this is an important sign, by the Assembly of the Republic, that we are on our way to winning this battle. I'm going to give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, who will report some information.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. I am now announcing the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members with regard to replacements of Members to take place. I refer first to the opinion on the waiver of the mandate of Mr Ricardo Leão, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, elected by the Lisbon electoral circle : « The resignation of Mr Ricardo Leão fulfils the legal requirements, being replaced by Paulo Jorge Duarte Marques, with effect from October 14, 2021, including. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the PCP, CH and non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will take another opinion from the same Commission. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I take into account the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members on the waiver of the mandate of Mr Raul Miguel Castro, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, elected by the electoral circle of Leiria : « The resignation of Mr Raul Miguel Castro fulfils the legal requirements, being replaced by Jorge Gabriel Duarte Catana Monteiro Martins, with effect from 16 October 2021, including. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will take another opinion from the same Commission. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I take into account the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members on the waiver of the mandate of Mr Fernando Paulo Ferreira, of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, elected by the electoral circle of Lisbon : « The resignation of Mr Fernando Paulo Ferreira fulfils the legal requirements, being replaced by Luís Miguel Oliveira dos Reis, with effect from 18 October 2021, including. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will take another opinion from the same Commission. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I take into account the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of the Deputies on the waiver of the mandate of Mr Fernando Ruas, of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party, elected by the electoral circle of Viseu : « The resignation of Mr Fernando Ruas fulfils the legal requirements, being replaced by Armendo Telmo Antunes Ferreira, with effect from 13 October 2021, including. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u9	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will also take another opinion from the same Commission. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the opinion refers to the suspension of the term of office of Member Carla Borges, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, elected by the electoral circle of Viseu, and is as follows: « The suspension of the PSD Member Carla Borges meets the legal requirements, being replaced by Eugénia Maria de Oliveira Duarte, with effect from 15 October 2021 and for the maximum period of 180 days. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u11	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Some of the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who are going to leave today asked to make a quick intervention to mark this important moment of your personal political life and of your parties, so I will now give the floor, with a hug for all and with the wishes of the President of the Assembly of the Republic. Mr Raul Miguel Castro, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, from the 16th day on, I shall cease to serve as a Member of Parliament in the Assembly of the Republic, and I would therefore like to thank Mr President and the Members. Vice-Presidents, the tolerance they gave in the course of the few interventions I had to make. This civic experience in the House of Democracy made me understand clearly the importance of the word "if", for which I had no doubt, and the difference between "service" and "use". We are all here to serve the cause of democracy and serve the interests of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, it was with great honour that I performed the duties of a Member for whom I was elected by the Leiria district. Here I found some friends, here I made new friends and therefore I also leave a thank you to all those I interacted with. Everyone is certainly available to serve the Republic and therefore my well-being to everyone by the way we have connected ourselves and for the day-to-day we have shared important moments with each other. To all — but even to all — a great well-being and thank you very much for what you have done for me during these two years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. The words I have spoken to you are extensive to all the ladies and gentlemen. Members who today bid farewell to the Assembly of the Republic, giving up the mandate for imperative reasons, which are the democratic reasons. Mr Fernando Paulo Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take on new duties from the next week in the Municipal Chamber of Vila Franca de Xira and I would like to thank all the Members of all the political parties and forces with whom I have had the privilege of working here, in the Chamber, both in committees and in the work of the speciality. It is the diversity of ideas, the ideological confrontation between democracies, the contemporary society, and the Assembly of the Republic is, in fact, the most important institution where this dynamic is generated every day. I would also like to leave a reference to all those who, often outside the holofotes, work to ensure that we, ladies and gentlemen, can perform our duties. I also acknowledge the workers and workers, officials and employees of the Assembly of the Republic and the parliamentary groups. I wanted to tell you that it was an honor for me to be able to serve Portugal from the Assembly of the Republic. Certainly, in the future, I will return here to defend the interests of my council and my communities and I hope to continue to be able to count on the collaboration, understanding and solidarity of the Assembly of the Republic for the problems that people in the field feel and want to be resolved. Thank you very much! A welcome to all! [[PS, PSD, BE, and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. There is no other Member of Parliament or Member of Parliament registered for intervention at this stage, I give the floor to Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha to report on the file. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u16	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Bill Nos 115 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, and 116 / XIV/ 3. a ( GOV ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with the other Commissions. The Drafts of Law No. 984 / XIV / 3 also entered the Bureau. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 985 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 986 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 987 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 988 / XIV/ 3. a ( IL ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 1. a and as 6. a Commission, 989 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 1. a and as 6. a Commission, 990 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 991 / XIV/ 3. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 1. the Commission and 992 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission. I also refer to Resolution Projects Nos 1469 / XIV / 3. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 2. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission, 1470 / XIV/ 3. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1471 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u17	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will enter our agenda, requested by the PS, which is intended for the joint assessment, in general, of Bills Nos. 974 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — Amendment to Law No 2 / 3013 of 10 January and Law No 53 / 2015 of 11 June with a view to strengthening the public interest, autonomy and independence of regulation and promotion of access to professional activities, 983 / XIV / 3. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Promotes access to regulated professional activities, eliminating unjustified restrictions on access to these professions and setting limits on the duration and organization of internships, 988 / XIV/ 3. a ( IL) — Regulatory reform of professional public associations, combating corporateism and democratization of access to professions ( first amendment to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January) and 989 / XIV/ 3. a (PAN) — Establishs the mandatory remuneration of professional internships for access to the exercise of the profession by making the first amendment to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January and the statutes of various professional public associations. Let us therefore start the debate. For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group brings the debate in this House a bill to amend the legal regime of professional orders. Before presenting this initiative, however, I would like to make two clarifications on this reform. In democracy, of course, there is a legitimate disagreement, but it is not worth everything and, above all, it is not worth misinformed by the Portuguese people we all represent here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] First of all, I refer to the narrative that this is a retaliation of the Socialist Party to orders. This is a reform which, as you all know, has been repeatedly recommended to Portugal by the OECD (European Economic Cooperation Organization ), by the European Union, and for years!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u19	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u20	It was registered in the election program of the Socialist Party in 2019, it was announced by my bank leader at the beginning of the Legislative Session, it was the subject of a long process of hearings of orders, representative associations of professionals, trade unions, student associations, etc. This process began on March 6, 2020, with the CNOP ( National Council of Professional Orders ), where virtually all cantonaries were present. on 9 March, these hearings continued and the first bilateral meeting was with Mr. Bastonário of the Advocates' Order. on March 11, WHO (World Health Organization ) decreed the pandemic and then the country entered into confinement, but this process continued—of course, with delays. Therefore, to say that it is a retaliation of the PS to the intervention of certain orders in tragic episodes that happened long after this process has been announced and triggered is absurd! It is basically an invention of those who refuse to change the status quo. Secondly, they say that we want the interference of the government in the order bodies. The supervisory board with external elements is a freely elected body by professionals. The provider of the recipients of the services is chosen by the staff,... [[PSD Members' laughs.]] ... that, in turn, was elected by the professionals. That is, nothing in these measures undermines the self-government and functional autonomy of the Orders. So, who says otherwise or doesn't read the diploma or is in bad faith and is trapped in an atavic and corporate vision of the country, which does so bad to him. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in a modern democracy, defending the interests of a professional class is essential. But this is the mission of unions, it is the mission of freely created private organizations, it is not the mission of public associations, with powers delegated by the State, which must guide their action solely and exclusively by the public interest. Therefore, the aim of this initiative is only to dignify and strengthen this mission of orders, to ensure that they exercise their power with exemption and independence and duty to regulate ethically a profession, is to ensure that they regulate, without exception, the access of our academically qualified young people to a regulated profession, not unduly limiting other professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is to ensure that they exercise their important role of supervision and professional discipline, independently and with a view to protecting the recipients of professional services, thereby strengthening consumer confidence. Portugal needs this reform, not only because international bodies recommend it, but above all because it will contribute to giving our young people more opportunities, it will make our society more democratic, modern, equal and just. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a reform that we must do without fear of those who only care about the preservation of their factual powers. To achieve these objectives, we propose four amendments in four areas. First of all, we propose general changes. I stress, for example, the involvement, in the process of establishing professional orders, higher education institutions or clarifying the mission of orders, which is to defend the interests of a profession and of the recipients of professional services, by merging Article 5(1)(a) and (b). the Law No. 2 / 2013, or, then, the allocation of supervisory power to orders, so that they can act discipline effectively on their members.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u21	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u22	The second group of amendments ensures greater transparency in young people's access to regulated professions and the elimination of unjustified restrictions. I refer to the speech of Mrs Joana Sá Pereira, because these are changes that concern, above all, our young people, which she represents so well. The third group of amendments relates to the organization of orders, to make its regulatory function more independent and discipline. On the one hand, the supervisory body, which has already been an independent body since 2013, now has members who are not registered in the orders, who are freely chosen by professionals, in democratic elections, and not imposed by anyone else. We also propose that the disciplinary body, which the orders already elect, include external personalities, in order to ensure more exempt disciplinary processes, since no one is a good judge in question. And we also want the provider of services, also provided for in the law since 2013, to leave the paper and become compulsory, in order to strengthen the mission of orders, which is to protect the recipients of services. This provider is chosen by Mr Bastonário, based on a list of personalities with the appropriate profile for consumer protection. Finally, and since orders are public associations, we propose the introduction of a gender parity rule in the elective organs, naturally safeguarding the specificity of female or male dominance in some professions. Finally, this project densityes the regime of the exercise of regulated professions through societies, including multidisciplinary societies, clarifying the conditions to be followed to prevent conflicts of interest, to ensure compliance with ethical duties, to safeguard professional secrecy and to ensure the technical independence of the various professions. We know that not everyone agrees with these multidisciplinary societies and fears that only large consultants will benefit. We don't have that conviction. We believe that the biggest beneficiaries will be young professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises, the first ones, because they can offer innovative services with reduced context costs, the second ones, because they will have access to a number of services at prices they can afford. In short, this is an initiative that only seeks to defend the public interest. We are convinced that it will deserve broad parliamentary consensus and, of course, I express our spirit of openness from now on to accept amendments which, in the field of expertise, can improve it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u23	Mr Deputy, the Bureau shall record an application for clarification from the PSD Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, to this end, Mrs Emília Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u24	Mr President, I begin this speech, as a result of the presentation made by the Socialist Party, with one regret, and a deep regret. Instead of the honourable Member making the presentation of a proposal that should be worked, which was actually improved, but which would come to the PSD position, in order to be in favour of the ease of access to the profession, of the end of the obstacles that do not accompany the modern times, a series of changes and changes according to the pulsar and the feeling of the modern society itself, evolved and increasingly global — in fact, we have given abundant evidence of that position, including, it was with a PSD Government that was created for the first time in 2013 a real regulatory framework, the first framework law for orders and associations, either for those already existing, or for those who would be constituted in the future — and I am sorry to have been speaking to them in misinformation, on media agendas, in lobbies... but this would be complementary to the fact that all the cantonaries, who have been heard, either for those who would be able to say that the exact reasons for the reform were not presented, the reasons put forward. This is the information that will reach us and that is publicly accessible to all. Therefore, lobbies cannot be confused with misinformation and misinformation cannot be the only one we think it should be. But, having said this, with this regret, Mrs Deputies, there are several concerns that we cannot but express to you today, although the sense of vote by the PSD on this matter is known and public. As for the provider of the service client, contrary to what he said in his presentation, there is a clear and ostensive governmentalization of the provider. Why? If the proposal says in Article 20. the, who is the supplier, in which terms he is designated, tells us, then, in paragraph 2, that he is designated from among a catalogue of three personalities. Presented by whom? Oh, my God! by the government or, in practice, by the state body, Mrs. Deputy, which is a way of governing through the side door. [[PS Deputy Protests Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] It is not chosen by orders, by personalities who understand. Don't! It is chosen from a catalogue of three personalities that is presented to them. It is clearly written in the proposal for Article 20 ( 2 ). Law No 2 / 2013. So, it's black in the white, there's no way to deny this. There are other issues here that seem to us to be very worrying, with regard to the effective access to the profession by young people, particularly those of paid internships, without taking into account specific professional orders. We have 20 professional orders in our country, each with very different realities, with their profile, their characteristics, that have to do with the professions they regulate. And unless the State fully takes over the payment of these stages and costs them as a whole, we can run the risk that what is said to be to allow young people access to the internships, because then there are no employers, there are no entities, no offices, there are no professionals who receive them to access their professional orders with the internships that are mandatory. This is one of the situations that concerns us, and much. As for multidisciplinary societies, there is also a concern here: to open up to non-professionals. This, yes, is absolute mercantilization of professions that are of State service, self-regulated by their fundamental role of public order, of fundamental rights. So we are making this, in fact, a business and very little worth the principles. These are some of the warnings that I hope, in particular, that we can work. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u25	In reply, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u26	Mr President, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, in relation to her regret, I understand it, but it is also my role as Member to tell the Portuguese people who are represented in this House. And that, purely and simply, is false. Why? Because all the lines of this reform have been discussed day after day...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u27	They didn't, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u28	They were all, through a script that was always repeated, one after the other. I can tell you several entities and we had a script. We have always addressed the issue of supervision, multidisciplinary societies, etc. The script was basically the script of the reforms recommended by the OECD and the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u29	If it's all discussed, what are we doing here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u30	We knew from the beginning what the position of the honourable Members was. Of course, some of them will have to do with this. We knew! But that's not why we're going to stop moving forward with a reform. As for your various concerns, there are many of these rules that can be improved and negotiated in the specialty and I have already opened up for this. But if you read well, the service recipient's provider is chosen and you have to be fit, if you want, and profile to defend consumers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u31	Three people!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u32	And who can testify, in this country, that someone has the right and the profile to defend consumers? It is the authority — it is not the government! — which, in Portugal, is competent, and which is above any government, for the protection of the consumer. If the gentlemen. Members believe that it must be the DECO (Portuguese Consumer Defense Association), which is a private entity, for me, all right, but who chooses is always the cantonary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u33	Three!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u34	As for paid internships, we have many different situations here. There are, in fact, orders in which there is a mandatory stage, but all trainees are paid, because there is simply a concern about using the IEFP (Instituto de Employo e Formation Professional) instruments that allow such remuneration. But, on this matter, and with better knowledge of cause, she would refer the answer to Mrs Joana Sá Pereira, who will talk about it. however, there are employers, in law, who are concerned about paying their trainees, and I do not speak of the large companies of lawyers, even speaking of employers in individual practice who resort to IEFP and, with this, they can pay their trainees. But, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, we are available to do all the work required. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u35	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues did not register.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know that Decree-Law No 66/2011 represented an important step. however, the exclusion of the stages corresponding to independent work has, in our opinion, been interpreted improperly. That is precisely the case with the Advocates' Order. At present, the traineeship is 18 months old and the absence of remuneration puts trainees in a precarious situation and is obliged to pay all their expenses, such as food and transport. We know that there may be situations where employers do not have economic resources that allow them to hire an intern, so we propose that the Government create a measure financed by the IEFP, adjusted to the specificities of professions whose internships are compulsory for access to the profession with simplified procedure. Thus, we propose, for all regulated professions, the reduction of internship time to 12 months and the non overlap of subjects to be taught in the formative period with subjects or curricular units that integrate the course conferring academic qualification. Finally, regardless of the nature of the professions, we propose that all stages be paid.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u37	You have the floor, by the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Portugal is today an unparalleled case in the developed countries of the European Union. According to the National Council of Professional Orders, there are 20 orders in Portugal — I repeat, 20! It is therefore no wonder that Portugal has long been alerted by several European entities to the need to identify and eliminate barriers to access and the exercise of regulated professions. Both the European Commission and the OECD, with the collaboration of the Competition Authority ( AD ), recommended that Portugal remove unjustified regulatory barriers such as those relating to multidisciplinary societies and the change in the supervision of access to these professions. over the years, several professional orders have been constituted without logic or criterion, other than the electoral motives of some parties in this House. The Liberal Initiative looks positively at the existence of non-exclusive professional orders in cases where the nature of the profession is directly related to the fundamental rights of citizens or requires continued and certified practice. in cases where this does not occur, the Liberal Initiative argues that there should be no professional orders that prevent or limit the access and exercise of the profession, so our draft law proposes to extinguish more than half of the existing orders. However, even in cases of orders whose existence is justified, it is worth noting that many have extravagant their mission, having become corporations defending the interests of these professions, to the detriment of young professionals and ultimately to the detriment of consumers or customers of these professions. The Liberal Initiative therefore believes that there must also be more competition in this area and therefore proposes the repeal of the rule providing that each regulated profession corresponds to a single professional public association. We need less exclusivity and more competition, we need less corporateism and more freedom. Because, contrary to what the PS may want, when international institutions recommend us to withdraw powers to orders, it is not to pass these powers to the State. Don't! It is to have the State do less than those roles. It is to remove the state and the orders from the front—point! Thus, and with respect for the primacy of individual freedom, it leaves room for civil society, untied from the state, to organize itself as you wish, in associations as you wish. It is to combat corporateism and to strengthen competition. Only the Liberal Initiative, which is not afraid to confront this corporateism, could make this contribution to the debate that will follow in the specialty in which we will also examine the other proposals. Let interested parties now say of their justice, but let the path be to reform and return power to the free initiative: free of state and free of corporateism.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u39	You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: In 2011, when our country was under the tough mesh of the troika's intervention, the Deolinda, by the voice of Ana Bacalhau, echoed the feeling that crushed an entire generation without pay with the wise words: « What a fool that I am! And I think/ What such a silly world/ Where to be a slave it is necessary to study». Ten years have passed and these words continue to echo among our young people. Portugal continues to have a context in which, at the same time as giving young people a degree in a degree, in a master's degree or even in a doctorate, many of them are told that they cannot enter the labour market and exercise the profession for which they have studied three, four, five or even more years, without having to do a long and painful professional internship, so they often have to pay rates of entry of absolutely disproportionate values, accompanied by insurance costs that are required to subscribe. In other words, what we tell these young people is that to be slaves you have to study and even pay, because the best that your country and its sector of activity have to offer them is an unpaid internship. This is the scenario of modern slavery that young people have to face when, upon leaving the university, they aspire to be lawyers, architects, certified accountants, official dispatchers, economists, engineers, notaries, nutritionists, psychologists, official auditors, applicants or implementing agents, among so many other professions. For thousands of young Portuguese people, the salary is a courtesy of the employer or host entity. Furthermore, in 2016, nine out of every 10 trainee lawyers were not entitled to remuneration. We're talking about 3600 trainee lawyers, who didn't receive anything because of the effort and the work they did for their boss. But if the internship is not paid, the expenses associated with it are already as well as the profits of the entities for which they worked. It is expenditure on food, transport and even housing, since the best stages are concentrated in Lisbon and Porto and this ultimately brings a great limitation on the independence of these young people and perpetuates the image of the generation « home of parents », with great difficulty in ensuring their empowerment. Until the beginning of last year, this precariousness placed them, including, in the dilemma of fighting for the life project for which they studied or abandoned this project to work at a hotel reception or serve at a restaurant, where the salary was not much, but was compensated by the generous gorges of tourists. And the problem, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the greatest or least dignity of any of these professions, but rather the waste of the dream of a life, the dream of a canudo, which has cost so much to achieve and pay. It is this precarious reality that we want to put an end to this initiative. We want — and I say this here clearly — to put an end to unpaid professional internships for access to the profession. For the NAP, a person providing his/her services must be entitled to a salary and meal allowance. This is the minimum level of dignity that must exist, in labour terms. And, therefore, with this initiative, we propose the amendment of the law of professional public associations and of each of the statutes of professional orders enabling unpaid internships, so that each trainee can receive, in a variable way, according to whether he has mastered or graduated, but with minimum values set by the law itself and which are the same values that the State considers to be acceptable within the IEFP stages. We do not want to be told that the remuneration requirement will lead to no trainee finding a boss, as we have heard today. And, therefore, we also propose that, as the current staff member of the Advocates' Order has defended this year, a special regime should be created within these stages, which ensures that the IEFP funds at least part of the employer's expenditure with remuneration, because we understand that it is the most basic social and intergenerational justice. Finally, there are still two amendments which seem to us to be fundamental. First, we want registration fees in professional orders to be proportionate, but more than that, to recognize the right to exemption or to a reduction in the rate to those who have benefited from scholarships during their graduation, which is already within the scope of, for example, the Advocates' Order. Secondly, we also want that whenever, under the law, there must be a subscription to a personal accident insurance or a professional civil liability insurance, their costs cease to be in the intern's aegis and move on to the boss's aegis, as is currently the case with the Order of Architects. What makes sense in the law to treat a lawyer and an architect in an absolutely different way? What is the objective justification for some to bear the costs of their insurance and others not? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this debate is and must be a debate of choices: between a path of dignity and respect for young people or the maintenance of a status quo that only serves to feed the precariousness and perpetuate the old-fashioned corporateism to which this Assembly of the Republic cannot and must not continue to give its hand. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u41	The Government has the floor, which is not always present in these debates of parliamentary group initiatives, but today it is through the Deputy Secretary of State of the Prime Minister, Tiago Antunes. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This House is today confronted with the need to make clear choices: the option between overthrowing or maintaining the blockades that have been limited for decades to access to self-regulated professions; the option between opening professional orders to society or keeping them closed on themselves; the option between following the recommendations of all international institutions, which have long claimed this reform, or perpetuating a system that has its roots in the corporate organization of the State; the option between adopting proposals from an independent entity, such as the Competition Authority, to improve the quality of the services provided by liberal professionals or to deal with protectionist anachronisms and restrictive practices of competition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, it has to make the choice between giving full realization to the freedom of choice of profession, registered in the Constitution, or continuing to limit the exercise of that fundamental right. On the part of the Government there is no doubt as to the way forward. A path which has been clearly outlined in our Government Programme with the commitment to, and I quote: « (...) to prevent practices that limit or hinder access to regulated professions ». In this light, however, we can only welcome the legislative initiatives under discussion today, which are precisely aimed at implementing the recommendations of the European Union, the OECD and the Competition Authority, to ensure the freedom and quality of services within the framework of the self-regulated professions. However, there are those who have recently dedicated themselves to distorting the objectives of this legislation, which are subject to malicious intentions and catastrophic effects, which do not have any adherence to reality. Therefore, for the sake of public clarification, it is important to undo some misconceptions and correct the misdeeds that have been propagated in recent days. Firstly, the idea that this reform is intended to control professional orders or to allow the Government to interfere in its activities. Now, there is strictly nothing in the bills under discussion in this House that proves such a theory. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The relationship between the government and the orders consists and will continue to consist of a protection of mere legality, similar to that of the government's relationship with the local authorities. As regards the internal functioning of orders, the supervisory body, which already exists, is expected to have a majority of independent or external members in order. But they are not government representatives and are not even chosen by the government. They are academics and personalities of recognized merit, freely elected by their own order. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The same is true of the providers of services, which are already provided for today and which are required, being exercised by an independent personality, chosen by the staff of each order, of persons with credentials in the defence of consumer rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u43	Three people! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u44	Secondly, the idea of restricting autonomy or withdrawing powers to professional orders has been conveyed — nothing more wrong! The diploma presented by the Socialist Party even strengthens the powers of orders, in particular in the field of discipline, so that they ensure the continuation of the public interest and respect for deontology in the exercise of their professions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore not a diploma against orders, but rather a diploma that values its real role as public authorities, holders of a power delegated by law to regulate the exercise of their professional activities. Thirdly, there are those who claim that the professional qualification of the members of the orders will be reduced or affect the quality of the services provided by them. This is again an absolutely unfounded accusation. Orders have and will continue to have a very important role in the formation of their members, but one thing is to form, another is to block or hinder access to the profession. These three ghosts have been shaken by those who, in fact, only want to maintain the status quo, because it benefits, to the detriment of free competition, the rights of consumers and those who want to enter the profession. Let us not, therefore, be misled by the criticisms and the falsehoods of those who only want everything to remain in the same. The objectives of this legislation are simple and quite evident to those who are in good faith: putting an end to unjustified and disproportionate restrictions that limit access to certain professions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is because, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot complain about the lack of professionals, especially in certain areas, if, at the same time, we maintain a system that allows some orders — at the same time, some orders — to put barriers to the provision of courses in higher education, to limit vacancies for post-graduate training in certain specialties or to create unjustified obstacles to the recognition of qualifications obtained abroad. This has to end! [[P.S.'s applause.]] As we cannot accept that the internships, instead of serving as mechanisms of qualification and preparation for active life, end up acting as a barrier, a funnel or a retardant in accessing so many young people to the full exercise of their profession. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, in this regard, the projects currently under discussion provide for some fundamental changes that I would like to point out: they provide that the internships have a maximum duration of 12 months; that registrations should be opened for internships at least once a year; that the initial training already provided by higher education institutions is not repeated; that the final assessment is the responsibility of an independent jury; and that the costs incurred by trainees are not disproportionate, because it is truly unacceptable that someone is prevented from exercising a profession for economic reasons. No, we cannot allow the stages to function as an instrument of discrimination or social segmentation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, the most important rule of all, that the stages are always paid, to ban this genuine civilizational delay which is the concept of "unpaid internship" and to prevent the stages from becoming forms of free labour exploitation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, does the country need reforms? Yeah. Is this one of them? Yes, it is one of the most important and pressing. So, let's reform this, let's put the public interest above the private or corporate interests that have long prevented the achievement of these objectives. This reform has been postponed for too long. The most qualified generation of always cannot continue to wait. The lawyers, doctors or engineers of tomorrow cannot be held hostage by protective or endogamic logics. If we really want to keep them in our country, we have to guarantee them reasonable conditions of access to the profession they want. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must guarantee them conditions that, of course, safeguard the quality and rigour in the provision of services that are essential to the populations, but that they do not function as a long and painful calvary designed to prevent many others, to stop so many others and to allow the exploitation of many and many young newly-trained, harming the beginning of their autonomous life and forcing them to delay, often years on end, so many professional and personal projects. This is what is really at stake and not the existence of professional orders, their autonomy or their powers, but the blockades that have been created in access to certain professions, irrational blockades that only serve to make it difficult, to sort out or to pay for the professional exercise by the younger ones. To destroy these blockades and promote the entry of young people into the labour market, avoiding the capture of certain professions by which they already exercise them is the patriotic mission that this House is now called upon to carry out. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's time. Our young people deserve it, the international institutions recommend it, the Constitution imposes it. Let us therefore do this justice to the new generations, break with decades of privilege and closure, have the courage to change what needs to be changed. The country, I'm right, you'll appreciate it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u45	Mr Secretary of State, the Bureau shall record an application for clarification. Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, I particularly like these moments that have something unpublished or innovative. Normally, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is here enthusiastically supporting the Government, but this time the Government came enthusiastically supporting the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group! It is always unpublished and curious, and the Secretary of State would make an excellent Member in this reversal of the banks we now have. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] There is something curious here: Mr. Secretary of State comes to tell us, about all these suspicions that are raised, the criticisms that have been heard, that is all wrong, that everyone is wrong, because, basically, this is what the orders need and what they want. Well, the question is obvious: then why didn't the orders understand that? Why is it that none of the main bastonaries, the oldest and most traditional orders — of doctors, lawyers or engineers — have not noticed this "good" that Mr. Secretary of State found in the Socialist Party's proposal and, on the contrary, have accused the Government that you want to control and govern? And more: when orders are autonomous and have criticized the government, what do they say? "The government wants to shut up and we don't accept that! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Why didn't they realize that kindness? That is the point of this debate. Say V. Ex.a: "No, no, what we now want is to forward the orders to your real role. You know, they don't know, they're there by chance, they don't know what their real role is! Besides, there are several things here. Say V. Exa: « Do not replace. » No, it does not replace, but if the order becomes to have elements that are not from the profession, it is clear that the power of the profession, which is obviously in self-regulation, is diminished. It is clear that an entity is placed next to the staff, with supervisory power, namely a provider, the power of independence, strength and the essential role that can be played by carpenters, especially those of the orders with the greatest history and the greatest weight in our society, have, is diminished. All this is very obvious. [[Protests by PS Member Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]] It says V. Ex.a and says the Socialist Party, or you say Ex.a and the Socialist Party supports: "We want exactly paid internships. » But who doesn't want it, in this House? We all want! The big question, which you have not yet answered, is who you pay! Who's gonna pay those same internships? Orders live from the quota of their associates, and many of them, due to lack of support during the pandemic — liberal professionals have been forgotten, and lawyers, in particular! — they had difficulty paying their own quotas. [[PS protests.]] This came late, came late and was forced by these benches here and not by the gentlemen! This is the truth! So, obviously, the payer for these internships is an important issue. One last irony, Mr. Secretary of State : the Socialist Party is now coming to say « we are going to do what should have been done, what the troika government, the PSD government / CDS, of the time of the troika, had no courage to do. » Curious, what a great irony, Mr. Secretary of State! Finally, you want to go beyond the troika! Finally, you are more "trohistists" than the troika. It wasn't time! [[PSD Members' laughs.]] We want more free access to professions, but these proposals, as they are, do not deserve our agreement or our support. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u47	I have now had the information that Mr. Secretary of State would answer together the various questions that will be asked, because there are two more questions from Mrs. Maria Begonha, the PS Parliamentary Group, and another from Mrs. Monica Quintela, the PSD Parliamentary Group. To make the first of these two requests for clarification, Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Under-Secretary of State, as it is widely known, both the European Union and the OECD have repeatedly made recommendations to Portugal that barriers, excessive privileges and even unjustified in regulated professions be removed and that supervision of these professions be changed. The same OECD recommendations are reflected in the 2018 Competition Authority report, which also initiated a comprehensive review of these recommendations. We know that these reports summarize different proposals that aim to take an important step in employment, competitiveness, innovation, free competition and economic development. We do not have even more time, as Mr. Secretary of State said, to lose, to praise these transformations in professional orders, which will not only make them more modern, fairer, not only with greater equity and justice in access to the profession, but also more able, more freer to face the challenges of the present and the future, with gains for all: professionals, young people and service recipients. The question we want to ask you has a double scope: on the one hand, that the Government can clarify the process of studying and drawing up recommendations from the Competition Authority, OECD and the European Union, and on the other hand also given its implementation in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) and because of the debate that Parliament is carrying out today, that the Government can say what importance it attaches to this reform which seeks to prevent practices that limit or hinder, as has already been said, freedom of choice, exercise and access to regulated professions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u49	To make a request for clarification, Mrs Monica Quintela of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor. I recall that the Secretary of State will then respond together to these requests for clarification. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, I was listening - and I remembered - about Camões, in that famous sonnet « That happy, blind smile / that the accident does not last long. » I have to confess that it was what I remembered! Open... Given this, it is known the most important historical role of professional orders and their courageous, free and independent role in defending the interests of citizens. There is such a preponderant public interest to be safeguarded that it is the Constitution itself that in its Article 47. , paragraph 1, provides for a limitation on freedom of choice of profession. It is therefore with concern that we see the attempt to govern orders, clearly in this diploma and in the lack of effective hearing — I repeat, effective! — from professional orders, as several cantonaries have come to say. This diploma raises many issues that we will not cease to work in the field of expertise. For the time being, I would ask the Secretary of State to clarify to me the following: who are, and I quote, «the competent State inspection and inspection services », with whom such a supervisory body may establish protocols to monitor the performance of the members of the orders and exercise the disciplinary power»? Who does the government want to control orders? [[Protests by PS MP Joana Sá Pereira.]] They impose the Customer Provider, who will be chosen from among three candidates indicated by a government-protected body. This provider cannot be dismissed unless he is guilty of serious misconduct! Only in this situation!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u51	That's already in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u52	Question: why are orders obliged to bear the remuneration of this political commissioner of the government and who controls it? Why do they want to transform the exercise of professions that govern and guide by principles of defense of the public interest into authentic supermarkets selling various services, with foreign partners to the social object and whose scope is only and only profit?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u53	You're right about that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u54	They want to prohibit the election for the bodies of the public professional associations of persons who have held positions in the bodies of the trade unions in the sector over the past four years. All right, we agree. Being granted that the senior councils of the judiciary include trade unionists within them, I ask: will they extend this ban to the higher councils? Are you also going to change the statutes of the magistrates?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u55	Right now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u56	What is the true purpose, Mr. Secretary of State, I repeat, the true purpose of the new clothes of this supervisory body that now becomes compulsory, organ that controls everything...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u57	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u58	... and what works so far, and will function, as an appeal body of the disciplinary body, and what will hire the State services to perform these functions? This will be an outsourcing for state services. Why is it that the power to deliver opinions on legislative initiatives by the Government rests solely with this supervisory body, which I repeat, can hire with the State to give these opinions to the State itself? It's an outsourcing mixed with an insourcing, it gives self-likeness! Concern with young people is a priority of the PSD,... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ... access to the labour market is fundamental. This diploma provides for professional internships to be paid. How do you intend to reconcile this remuneration with the exercise of liberal professions? For example, do you know how many law graduates come out of colleges every year? Who's gonna pay for these internships? Is it the IEFP? Oh, my God! Is this measure, which should be 'kind' — so'ready and blind smile' — not a highly poisoned present that will prevent young people from actually taking the stage? It is that the country, Mr. Secretary of State, is not only the large companies of Lisbon and Porto. Thank you very much and I thank you for answering the questions one by one. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u59	There are them in Coimbra too!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u60	You have the floor to answer, Mr Deputy Secretary of State of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Telmo Correia, you are apparently very surprised that there is a harmony between the PS Parliamentary Group, the PS and the Government in this area. This harmony is absolutely natural. I know that the honourable Member may not be used to the existence of such harmony, but that is what is normal and that is indeed the case. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u62	I didn't say that! If you only have politicism, you better go home and try something else!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u63	Then ask: “If this reform is so good, why didn’t the orders realize it? Oh, my God! Mr, let us not put everything in the same bag, because orders have not all had the same reaction either. Those who have really reacted quite vocally to this reform are some professional orders, in fact, others who have already had the concern to demarcate these positions. « Why have these orders had such positioning? Oh, my God! » We need to ask them. However, what I have seen in the public debate is a series of misconceptions, often called for by those who benefit from the current system, which contains all these absolutely corporate limitations in access to the profession, very damaging, above all, to the younger ones. What I did not understand about your intervention is to agree with the position that these orders have been defending and, therefore, agree with the perpetuation of the status quo, with the maintenance of these absolutely unjustified limitations, these restrictions on access to the profession, especially because of the most qualified generation we have. Then talk about going beyond the troika. No, Mr President, this is not with us to go beyond the troika. We are going beyond the inertia of your government, which, in this matter, has done nothing. That's right! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Monica Quintela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u64	The troika is your invention!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u65	As far as Mrs Begonha's speech is concerned, this reform, as she says, is already late and we do not have time to waste. This reform results from a set of recommendations of international instructions that have been produced over a very long period of time, in a very participated way, with the intervention of orders and a series of entities. Thousands of standards of existing legislation have been studied, line by line, to verify whether or not they are compatible with the rules of freedom to provide services, the quality of service delivery and the protection of the public interest. in my previous functions, I was able to accompany this work and I know that it was a very busy work, which has actually resulted in an extensive report, which I recommend, in which the advantages of these amendments which are being discussed are very well expressed. So we really have every interest in taking advantage of this work, which has been very serious, and we must finally put it into practice. As for Mrs Mónica Quintela's intervention on the defence of details...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u66	Details? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u67	Small details! Who pays? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u68	Or rather, on the concrete aspects of this bill, you should naturally question the proposer. It is not the government that will respond to the various aspects of this bill. [[Protests by PSD MP Monica Quintela and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] Mrs. Member, if you'd like to listen to me, I'd like to respond. The honourable Member speaks of the very important historical role the orders have had. Of course! I'm the first to recognize him. No one has ever called this into question, nor is that at stake in this debate! Then I find it curious that the honourable Member refers to Article 47. the, not to speak of the freedom of choice of the profession, but to stress the restrictions to the freedom of choice of the profession that Article 47. Let it go! Is the Member on the side of the restrictions or is he on the side of the freedom of the profession? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u69	No, no! of the public interest!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u70	As for the provider of service recipients, she will know that she is a figure already provided for in the current law. The current law already provides that it is an independent figure.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u71	No matter who? Oh, my God! Political Commissioner!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u72	The rules that have been proposed in this respect—that is how I understand them— aim to ensure the true independence of this figure. If this is certainly not the best solution in the field of expertise, Mr President. Members will have the opportunity to work to find a better solution. What is important is to ensure that this provider is truly independent of corporate interests, which unfortunately still fatten in some professional orders, and that he is a true defender of the recipients of services, customers, consumers. [[Protests by PSD MP Monica Quintela.]] Madam Member, I also have here this note that you spoke to the political Commissioner. I'll be right there, Your Honor. Take it easy! I'll answer you! They are not political commissioners. This is a falsehood that has been used by certain professional orders and I see that, by the way, the PSD stands on the side of this argument, which has no basis in this legislation. Indeed, I would like to know whether the position that the PSD will take in this debate is that of openness, of abstention,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u73	PSD wants answers! Answer me! He can't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u74	... to enable a reform that is important to open access to the profession to so many young people who are faced with blockades, delays, the calvary of very long stages and with limitations to higher education. Is that what the PSD is going to defend or limit itself to a joke or certain sounds, which really have no expression in this reform? The honourable Member then talks about unionists. Madam Member, it is the Constitution itself that provides for a clear distinction between what is a union and a professional order, and says very clearly that professional orders cannot act as unions, nor can they be confused with unions. It's the Constitution that says so! It's nothing more than the Constitution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, as regards the true purpose of the new configuration given to the supervisory body, you have to ask the proposer once again. But since this proposal is exactly the result of the recommendations made by the OECD, the European Union and the Competition Authority, I think that if you carefully study the reports produced by these international institutions, you will find the answer to your question there. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u75	Mr. Secretary of State can't answer! What are you doing there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u76	You have the floor for an intervention by Mr Ventura. We voted for your temporary replacement a month ago, now comes back and we have not voted for anything, because that is how you are in the Rules of Procedure, although I have doubts about what the Rules of Procedure say. But please, Mr. André Ventura. It has no responsibility for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reason that brings us here today is simple to understand. The PS wants to end those who have faced him over the past few months. Episodes such as the Order of the Nurses or the Order of the Advocates motivated this reform in the law, which, however much they want to hide, the country will get to know. How can a Secretary of State come to say that there will be no influence, when they are mostly appointed to a control order, members outside the profession itself? Oh, my God! Try to be operated by an economist, Mr. Secretary of State, and you will see the result you will have. This bill is not a bill; it is a typical project of the Socialist Party, which wants to end the few independent entities that exist in Portugal, whose funding does not control. We can turn this around, but this law is clear: change to the criteria and to the appointment of supervision; change to the criteria for the appointment of three personalities, which will, from outside, be true political commissioners to control orders. It is the biggest attack on professional freedom in 45 years of activity. This is not hard to understand, when everyone says that they have not even been heard by the Socialist Party to carry out this reform. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u78	What we have here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is one of the biggest attacks on the profession that has been going on for many years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u79	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u80	I will finish, Mr. President. The Socialist Party and the Government say that it is to eliminate restrictions on access to the profession, but they could do so without ending the freedom of the profession, which they really are doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u81	You have the floor, for an intervention, by Mr José Luís Ferreira, The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has requested the agenda for today of the discussion of a set of amendments to the law establishing the legal regime of the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. As we can see, the Socialist Party intends, with its proposal, to strengthen the presence of the public interest, autonomy and independence of regulation and the promotion of access to professional activities. It happens that in the universe of the proposals submitted there are some that Greens, in thesis, receive and accompany others that do not so much, because they need to be refined, eventually, in the field of specialty, and others that we do not follow at all. In fact, like the proponents, we also consider that the invaluable task of regulating and official representation of certain sectors of activity should be strengthened on behalf of the public interest. This strengthening involves introducing mechanisms that can not only guarantee greater independence and exemption from regulatory function, but also put an end to restrictions that do not find support or basis from the point of view of the public interest. in this context, we agree with the need to strengthen the regulatory competences of the supervisory body of professional associations, with a view to greater guarantee of independence and exemption. With regard to the proposal to remove certain restrictions on access to regulated professions which, from the point of view of the public interest, may be unjustified, we believe that it is in fact necessary to establish limits, in a very clear manner, on vocational training, or even training and examination courses. It is necessary, above all, that the stages promoted by professional public associations have reasonable durations and do not affect matters which have already been assessed by higher education institutions. We therefore consider it imperative to open up regulated professions to young people and it is necessary to eliminate certain restrictions imposed on them in access to these professions, but which, in the interest of the public, are absolutely disproportionate and unjustified. If, from the point of view of the public interest — and that is what should be relevant — these restrictions on access to regulated professions do not find support or basis, then these restrictions are meaningless and should therefore be removed. On the other hand, we also find it correct that the fees charged during the vocational training period or during the training period meet the criteria of adequacy, necessity and proportionality and we consider entirely fair that the professional internships can be paid, in order to define in the statutes of their respective professional public associations. in fact, it is certainly not necessary to make large accounts to understand the size of the injustice it represents for young people who want to enter the labour market, after a degree and the costs it involves, they are still obliged to bear the registration and costs of internship, transport and food and not to be paid during the internship. In fact, it is very high the costs of those who have to pay to work or to access their profession. As for the non-eligibility to the bodies of the public associations of professionals who have held positions in trade unions over the past four years, we have doubts about the relevance of this measure. This should also be the subject of deep debate in the field of expertise. The same is true of the providers of services, not so much because of their compulsory consecration but by the form of their designation or election. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, not everything is pink in this proposal and, for the Greens, there is a matter of greater importance in which we do not see ourselves, nor can we be able to identify any advantage in order to dignify orders and much less in order to strengthen the public interest. We refer to the proposal for the establishment and operation of multidisciplinary professional societies. In fact, in fact, as well as in this regard, the Lisbon Regional Council of the Advocates 'the admissibility of the establishment of multidisciplinary societies in the specific context of the exercise of counsel will undoubtedly determine the loss of the ability to control the conduct of ethical duties to which all lawyers are subject in the exercise of their profession'. That is also why for the Greens this matter is one of the most important in this set of proposals put forward by the Socialist Party. Nevertheless, in view of the willingness already expressed by the Socialist Party to receive contributions and suggestions in the context of the discussion in the field of specialty, the Greens will not vote against the proposal, but they stress that we are faced with a proposal which will certainly require a lot of work, a lot of hearings and many adjustments, in the case of specialty. Finally, in order to make a reference to the other proposals which are also under discussion, the Greens will follow those and only those which, in our view, can contribute to dignifying professional orders and strengthening the presence of the public interest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u83	You have the floor for an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Orders have powers delegated by the State to defend the general interest and not corporate interests. So we want to start by clarifying some principles which, to us, are fundamental. First, the orders do not replace trade unions in the representation of work and in the definition of conditions and the framework of work. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u85	This is an abuse of the delegated power in orders by the State, it is a manipulation and it is an offense to the union freedom that the Constitution protects.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u87	Second, the orders do not replace higher education institutions and accreditation agencies in the definition of curricula and the qualifications necessary to be trained in a particular area of knowledge or professional exercise. Does it make any sense that there is training in compulsory stages that is repetition of the training and examinations that people have already done in college, with subjects already taught and evaluated by higher education institutions? What is the point of this if not to create a self-training market and a further barrier to access to the profession? Thirdly, the orders do not replace the courts in the exercise of justice and in the safeguarding of the rule of law. Fourthly, we do not argue that there should be a deregulated market in the field of work and in the field of work, and therefore we do not understand, contrary to the liberal perspectives, that freedom of exercise and choice of profession — which is a principle that needs to be guarded — is incompatible with strong and democratic rules in the regulation of activity, with strong and democratic labour rules and in the fight against employer abuse, with strong and democratic rules in the regulation of economic activity. It is true that orders have a positive role in some of these dimensions, but it is also true that in many others they have a negative role. Putting orders under greater public scrutiny is a certain step this Parliament must take. Combating discrimination in the access of new generations to regulated professions, limiting barriers to access to these professions, regulating internships, strengthening independence and autonomy of regulatory function, ensuring the representation of service recipients, combating conflicts of interest are important steps that this Parliament must take, because the situation we have, in particular in some professions, is unacceptable. Many orders are today a real obstacle to access to the profession, with conservative logics and an accomplice silence on the labour abuses perpetrated against younger people. The example of lawyers is one of the most eloquent, although not the only one. A young person who is licensed in Law has to pay 700 € to sign up as a trainee lawyer, plus 150 € to sign up for the access exam, plus 300 € for registration as a lawyer—then to the head are 1150 € that has to pay off. If you refuse an exam, pay more; if you change your employer during the internship, you pay more. But we don't stay here. As has already been emphasized in previous interventions, there is the question of internships: more a barrier raised by order to enter the profession. It is compulsory to train, there is a employer with more than five years of active ballot, but it is not compulsory to be paid for the work done while this stage is being carried out. I remember, in November 2010, the phone that was installed in the corridors of this Parliament when the Government of the Socialist Party then proposed — and very well — a legislative authorization to impose the mandatory remuneration of professional internships. I am working in the lawyers' offices, working in the center seats, Members of the Socialist Party are rebelling against the Socialist Party's proposal to defend themselves and safeguard that the professions that work and continue to work on green receipts—many of them false green receipts—have had a standard that excepted them from that diploma, which were not covered. And the fact is that there they managed to put a rule in that law by which lawyers' offices continue to escape this obligation — this civilizational delay, to use the expression of Mr. Secretary of State. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u88	at the time we had the right to attend a charged moment when the Left Block presented the original proposal of the Government of the Socialist Party, which was rejected by members of the Socialist Party, to defend the interests of lawyers offices and also of architects, of the so-called liberal professions. Now forcing the remuneration of the internships and limiting them to one year is a rule of common sense that we strongly applaud. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u89	Not that it has to be done, of course, against the opinion of those who command in order. Moreover, it is not surprising that the Bastonary vowel of the Order of Advocates has multiplied over the years in positions such as the rules as basic and as fair as this, but has always been consistent with the maintenance of the culture of labour abuse of young people to green receipts, as has been actively conjugated by the maintenance of the social disprotection of younger lawyers or, more simply, of the poorest lawyers, when we brought to this Parliament the debate of access to extraordinary support by lawyers and applicants or of the integration of lawyers into social security. We will arrive there, probably also here against the opinion of the Advocates' Order and the CPAS (Advocacy Box of Lawyers and Applicants). But there are other questions. Does it make sense, for example, that the Bartonary of the Order of Lawyers can accumulate this function with the presidency of the Lisbon Association of Owners? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u91	He's not paid!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u92	Is that not why he explains that, in the middle of the pandemic, at the same time that he kept a frozen silence on people who were being displaced or on lawyers without protection from CPAS, Mr. Bastonário made an alarm about human rights associated with sacrosanct property when there was a humanitarian problem with migrants in the Alentejo? Oh, my God! [[PSD protests.]] Are not these contradictory interests that explain that Mr Bastonário's interventions in the defence of the rule of law are quite selective and have days? But also in other professions problems have been raised, as is the case in the planning of medical training. Failures in the process of opening vacancies for specialty have been questioned by young doctors, with situations of doubtful legality, with the detriment of the training of these doctors and the quality of care to the population. Between the Medical Order, the Central Health System Administration and the Government are pushing the responsibilities of one another. But one thing is certain: we need a process of measuring the qualifications of medical services, their training capacities, greater transparency and uniformity throughout this process and we need an integrated and articulated planning that serves the interests of the population. what we do not need is that there are no vacancies in an essential area, because they are limited by the Medical Order, which defines less capabilities than those that are requested by the National Health Service services. In short, there is no lack of important aspects on which Parliament is called upon in the regulation of professional orders and the various projects under discussion contribute to this discussion. however, in these proposals there are also some problematic points, lost opportunities and aspects that will need to be corrected, from our point of view, in the context of discussion in the specialty. For example, when the Socialist Party's bill speaks of the requirement of "appropriate, necessary and proportionate fees" in access to professions, or of inclusion in orders, it is a paper that seems to us to be of enormous ambiguity, because if the law remains so it is very possible that the fees remain equal and that people are invited to discuss in court the concrete application of this indeterminate concept of adequacy and proportionality. in the same way, if we do not want the obligation of professional internships to be remunerated, it is not necessary, in addition to reducing them to one year, to deepen this requirement, giving it greater realisation, greater ability to be monitored the abuse of this figure of the internships and also ensuring the financing of the IEFP, where necessary, that there are vacancies? On the other hand, if there are advantages in ensuring more effectively the presence of a provider or supplier of the recipients of the services — so a person not included in the order — will it make sense how the pre-selection of whom can be elected is planned? Would it not be important here to ensure the role of the representative assembly of professionals? That there are external entities to increase the scrutiny of the work done by the orders is well, from our point of view it is true, but this requirement can and should be compatible with the independence of the bodies, with the technical autonomy of certain decisions and with the non-subversion of internal processes. In conclusion, there are rules that, frankly, seem to us unacceptable. One example: the anti-union standard, which appears in the Socialist Party's proposal and which makes those who were part of trade unions cannot then participate in the orders for four years. In fact, it is very important for us to distinguish themselves from the unions in order. And we welcome that there are professions that have been built historically and culturally as liberal professions—and where, therefore, for these historical and cultural reasons, there were no trade unions, but only orders—and where it is now attended to the formation of trade unions, because these professions have lived wage processes. The example of the union in formation, the union of architects, is a good demonstration of the need for trade union organizations in these supposedly liberal professions, but increasingly waged in fact and where orders do not have competence, nor do they want to be able to do so! — to represent the interests of workers against the practices of their colleagues, owners of their offices and ateliers who exploit them. But to say this is one thing, another very different is to establish a four-year period of disgust, preventing someone who has been in a union direction from participating in an order. On what basis? Initiating the civic participation of any citizen is not at least acceptable, because, basically, anyone who has participated in the union is entitled to amputated rights because he has participated in the direction of a union, that is, he is a norm hostile to unions, to his work and to his recruitment. Finally — and to end even — we have many aspects to discuss, to deepen, to correct, in the coming months, in the field of expertise. The Left Block is available, interested in this debate and will present its proposals at this stage. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u93	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes spoke for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u94	Mr. President and Mr. Members: This debate on amendments to the legal system of professional orders raises three essential questions. The first of these issues has to do with the principles inherent in this debate. We in the PSD have a position of principle available to reassess and review the matter of access and exercise of professions. And it is not just because of a European Union requirement. We know that this is a condition for the Recovery and Resilience Plan, it was already in the time of the troika. But for us, more than a requirement of the troika or of the European Union count values and principles. And we are available for the re-evaluation and review of these matters to ensure greater freedom in access and in the exercise of professions, greater competition, properly regulated, all in the perspective of the pursuit of the public interest and the designs of a developing society. These are the principles we have always guided and will guide our actions. And applying these principles should be a requirement of a modern society, of policy makers with strategic vision and of leaders of public associations with a spirit of responsibility. A demand for a modern society, because society has changed a lot and, above all, it is important and fundamental that it continues to change. All that means greater freedom, properly regulated competition and a sense of responsibility is essential in the new world we are building. The time is to reform, to change, to modernize. The criticism we make to the Socialist Party is not to reform too much, it is to reform too little. But such changes, taking into account the essential objectives and principles already mentioned herein, should have the membership of the association leaders of the various professional orders. We are sure that they are also the first to understand that there are changes to be made, freedom and competition to strengthen, as this requires a modern and competitive society. The second important issue in this debate is that changing the system of professional orders has to be done with professional orders and not against professional orders.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u96	Here we come, we have a good idea that the Socialist Party and the Government always have a purpose in these matters that is not so much the reformist purpose, but that of silence. Professional orders often have uncomfortable positions for governments. They are frontal and are demanding in their positions and pronouncements, which is good, because we need entities, including public associations, that are able to be independent and autonomous voices and that often have to function as entities capable of correcting excesses and the arrogance of political power. Now, the Socialist Party and the Government, as has proved over these years, do not like independent entities. And therefore, in these matters we do not accompany the authors of this project. We want to deepen reformist principles of freedom, responsibility, greater professional competition, always — I repeat, always — on behalf of the public interest, but we do not accept silence, we do not accept to remove the right to criticism. To soften organizations does not do good to society, it does not do good to democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u98	We will therefore not fail to present, in the field of expertise, proposals for amendments that deepen principles of change and avoid misleading temptations that are underlying this project of the Socialist Party. Finally, the third essential issue of this discussion: the need for an extended debate in Portuguese society. We are available to make changes, but, as we have already said, in conjunction with professional associations and not against professional associations. We may have differences and disagreements here or there on some matters, as has happened in the past, but we do not forget the remarkable contribution that professional orders have made to democracy and to the development of our country — and this is before and after 25 April, before and after freedom and democracy! We will therefore propose a broad debate on this subject in the field of expertise. We will propose hearings, hearings, gathering opinions and contributions, and we will also extend this debate to the hearing of independent personalities of civil society, reference personalities of our country, personalities able to make enriching contributions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the basis of these guidelines, we hope that, in the field of expertise, we will be able to contribute to improving these changes and ensuring the much-needed transparent and clear discussion on these matters. We therefore hope that the Socialist Party will have the spirit of openness that a matter of this nature requires. Changes such as these cannot be dictated by conjuncural majority or by impulses of circumstance, must be the work of all, done with elevation, with dignity and with sense of responsibility. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u99	For an intervention, Mr Nelson Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to leave three reflections on the Socialist Party bill, these reflections that seem relevant to this debate. The first is to question why the Government will present to the Assembly of the Republic a proposal for a bill amending the statutes of professional orders to implement these amendments proposed by the Socialist Party. The question I am asking is how it makes sense for the government to pass on a competence that is clearly the competence of the Assembly of the Republic. Why does the Socialist Party not make this proposal? The second reflection is to question the alleged end of unpaid professional internships, proposed by the Socialist Party. And I say'supposed' because it ends up being a species, as referred to in the famous phrase, of 'everything must be changed, so that everything will be the same', since it passes on to the statutes of professional orders, which, in the proposal of the PS, are affected, the competence to put an end to this scourge of unpaid internships. Is the PS available to follow the NAP proposal that already amends the statutes of professional orders? Finally, the PSD has, in fact, some partial reason, because there is a clear risk that there will be less access to these stages by young people. The NAP has a proposal providing for a special scheme to guarantee the financing of the IEFP. Is PS available to monitor this project? Finally, Mr. Secretary of State, I could not fail to make a note. This is Mr. Secretary of State of patriotism. There is no doubt that patriotism is actually putting an end to precariousness. The NAP proposal is a step in this direction. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u101	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : I refer-CL-I - mainly to the Socialist Party bill, despite the government's volunteerism in secondary school today, here in the House the Socialist Party bill almost implies that we are discussing a bill. But we're not, we're discussing a Socialist Party bill, which we do with great pleasure. This is a bill for the review of some aspects of the legal system of professional orders which contains a number of different proposals. Some of them deserve our agreement, others raise doubts and others deserve our complete disagreement. In all these situations, we are talking about relevant issues, so our approach in this debate cannot be a generic assessment. Let's go, then. It proposes that the PS, for the establishment of professional orders, be heard previously outside the professions concerned, such as university, scientific or other institutions. We can improve the list of entities to be heard, but in principle we have nothing against that idea. It proposes that the PS prohibit professional orders from « establishing restrictions on the freedom of access and the exercise of the profession by act or regulation ». This is a very relevant issue and this is where we can find the most positive points in this initiative. in fact, one of the problems with which Portuguese society is debating is the professional integration of young frameworks with higher education. Access to a profession regulated by a professional order after obtaining an enabling academic degree for its exercise continues to be a huge problem for thousands of young people and it must be acknowledged that several professional orders have not only contributed to helping young people overcome this problem as they have been contributing to hindering their access to the profession, through the imposition of elimination tests or various administrative obstacles.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u103	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u104	It is not socially acceptable that in a country where so many thousands of citizens do not yet have a family doctor, let us see the Order of Doctors speaking against the extension of the supply of medical courses in public universities, with the argument that we do not need to train more doctors. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u105	Just as it is not socially acceptable for the Advocates' Order to evaluate trainee lawyers on curricular matters of law faculties with elimination effects on access to counsel. Just as it is not acceptable for young people who are part of such 'the most qualified generation of all time' to be obliged to beg for the frequency of free traineeships when they are not physically remunerated, or to have to attend double stages, to have access to a profession for which they have the legally required qualifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u106	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u107	For all this, we consider the proposal that only a professional internship may be required when it is not an integral part of the course conferring the necessary academic qualification, as well as the requirement that there should be at least one registration period per year in professional stages. We also agree that the definition of the subjects to be taught during the training period and, if necessary, to be evaluated in the final examination should ensure that there is no overlap with subjects or curricular units that integrate the course corresponding to the necessary academic qualification. We also agree that the stages involving the provision of work should be paid.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u108	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u109	Not that the professional order should be constituted as an employer, but the entities benefiting from the work of the trainees must pay the same employment benefit adequately.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u110	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u111	On the other hand, the question of the definition of the jury that should proceed with the final evaluation of the internship should be better discussed, and we do not agree with the possibility of replacing the internship by distance education. Turning to aspects which do not deserve our objection in principle but lack some reflection and improvement, it is important to highlight the following: first, as regards the mandatory existence of a service provider, it is not wrong for us to see its existence, which, in fact, the law already provides. Your obligation already raises our reservations and, in any case, there must be assurances as to your appointment. That is, we cannot replace a purely corporate appointment with an appointment that risks governmentalization. The same is said about the supervisory body that is proposed or the inclusion of persons of recognized merit in the disciplinary body. We have no objection in principle to the fact that organs of this nature are composed of personalities of recognized merit outside the profession. This is also the case in the Superior Councils of the Magistracy and the Superior Council of the Public Ministry. What is important to safeguard is that the entities that make up these bodies have their qualifications recognized by the professionals themselves and are not imposed from outside and, fundamentally, that they are never mostly in these bodies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u112	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u113	Supervisory bodies or disciplinary bodies shall have guarantees of independence, but shall be bodies of professional orders and not bodies against professional orders. The concrete proposal of the supervisory body contained in the Socialist Party bill seems to us to be unbalanced about the composition and confused about the form of election.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u115	This is an aspect that has to be well analyzed in the specialty. On the other hand, if it seems obvious to us that there should be no possible confusion between professional orders and trade union associations, we already find the ban on the integration of former union leaders into professional orders. That is a matter that must be carefully considered, because it is not possible to create an ineligibility of citizens here for any body to be nominated for as union leaders. It does not seem to us that this has any justification and even seems to us that it can be doubtful constitutionality. Finally, but perhaps most importantly, the CFP completely rejects the proposal for recognition of multidisciplinary societies. By this way, we can have a multidisciplinary society with lawyers, architects, engineers, doctors, nurses, enforcers and agents or accountants, all of them hired by a tailor-made salary and whose boss is a large economic group. This path, in addition to exacerbating the exploitation of these professionals, poses serious problems in the field of deontology and professional secrecy: confidential information, independent evaluation and absence of cases, forms of performance of professionals remain in the hands of the economic groups that hire them, i.e. their employers, not fulfilling the deontological duties of each of these professions. On the other hand, we have lawyers in individual practice or in small companies of lawyers who continue to survive without any of their problems being solved, and they are many. in the specific context of the exercise of counsel, as, moreover, stresses the opinion of the Lisbon Regional Council of the Order of Lawyers, which has been sent to us, the admissibility of the constitution of multidisciplinary societies will undoubtedly determine the loss of the ability to control the fulfilment of the ethical duties to which all lawyers are subject, in the exercise of the profession, and the consequent decrease and, most possibly, cessation of the general consciousness of the profession regarding the relevance and primacy of these same duties. The deontological duties imposed on lawyers were not defined for the purpose of hindering the exercise of the profession but, rather, to ensure the immunities necessary for the exercise of the mandate. The loss of the ability to control the fulfilment of ethical duties within multidisciplinary societies represents an open door to abuse and loss of security in legal follow-up, with the varied and adverse effects it will have on the democratic rule of law, social peace and the maintenance of the pillars of society's integrity. All seen and weighted, the PCP will generally abstain in the PS bill for the benefit of the work to be done in the specialty. But it is quite clear from now on that the CFP will strongly oppose any text which is being submitted to this House and which provides for the possibility of multidisciplinary societies. By making this point clear, of course, we express our full willingness to participate in the specialized work and we will be able to contribute to the finding of good solutions to the other issues that are under discussion here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u116	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: On behalf of the interests of the citizens, the State has delivered to self-organised professions the task of regulation and supervision, in particular with regard to the access and exercise of these professions. And so it has been for decades. Over time, this self-organization model was losing the opportunity to transform and modernize and also to boost the capacity and credibility of the various sectors of activity. And they haven't missed alerts. In fact, as has already been said, for several years several institutions have warned that countries need to eliminate restrictions on access to self-regulated professions, to promote more employment, more productivity and more economic growth. Here, there are two possibilities: to maintain the status quo, ignoring the many challenges that lie particularly with the younger ones, or, in frank dialogue with all, to seek to strengthen the public interest, autonomy and independence of regulation and to promote access to professional activities. We chose the second path. That is how we presented ourselves to the Portuguese in 2019, and that is what we now have an obligation to fulfil. It was in the PS electoral programme and is also in the Government programme. There should therefore be no surprise, no wonder. It is only determination and willingness to make a difference. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, reform, democratize and modernize. Freedom of choice and access to profession is a fundamental, constitutionally guaranteed right, and the State has even the obligation to ensure. It should therefore ensure that all disproportionate restrictions impeding its exercise are eliminated. This parliamentary group promoted more than 30 hearings with representatives of professional orders, associations representing different professionals and students, to which numerous written contributions from other entities and personalities are added. There are therefore six fundamental questions concerning access to these professions to which our project seeks to answer clearly. First: Should professional orders promote internships that neither evaluate nor duplicate educational content already addressed in higher education? Yeah. Secondly, should professional orders charge adequate and proportionate fees to candidates, ensuring that no one, absolutely no one, is prevented from access for purely economic reasons? Yeah. Third: Should professional orders promote internships only when they are not part of the necessary academic training? Yeah. Fourth: Should professional orders promote proportional, reasonable and fair internships? Yeah, yeah. Thursday : Should professional orders seek to promote paid internships? Yeah. Sixth: Should professional orders accept recognition of qualifications obtained abroad and which are properly recognized in our country? Yeah. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Here are the answers that the Portuguese find in our bill. The stages cannot be synonymous with calvary and must continue to ensure — as many recognise, and we too — the excellent training quality. We will not abandon any of these principles nor will we give in to attempts to divide the citizens between those who already practice a self-regulated profession and those who dream of ever getting it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u119	This fight is not done in trenches, it is done with everyone, and we cannot even waste this generation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Aoimobilism responds with innovation and progress; corporateism responds with more freedom and independence. This is the time to collectively wage a battle that is just and necessary. Portugal has long asked for and needed. for the development of our country, for the progress of the professional public associations and for the dreams of the younger, we count on this Parliament to take this step forward, absolutely certain that, in the specialty, we will find the necessary consensus to guarantee the future in the right way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u120	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The draft law submitted by the Socialist Party introduces relevant amendments to the legal regime for the creation, organization and functioning of professional public associations. It therefore introduces relevant changes to the regime of regulated professions, i.e. those in which there is a weighty public interest that justifies a limitation on freedom of choice and access to profession, constitutionally enshrined principle. in the classic tripartition between direct, indirect and autonomous administration, the associations belong to the autonomous administration, which is why the corresponding intervention powers of the government are limited to the exercise of protective powers over legality and, in some cases, on the merit of their activity, excluding any powers of direction or superintendence. Professional public associations develop responsibilities that would be incumbent upon the State, but that it has entrusted them with regard to sensitive areas such as the life, health or freedom of citizens. They are an extension of the administration of the State, which, rather than regulation them directly, delivers its regulation to the professionals themselves. We therefore believe that the adoption of this legislative initiative leads to the fact that there is an external protection of professional public associations, which is strange to them, which limits their reserved acts, which distorts the reason for their existence and which we consider, in fact, excessive. The obligation of the supervisory body — which administers the disciplinary power and regulates the exercise of the profession — to be composed of a majority of members not enrolled in the professional public association, starting with the president himself, makes it clear that this bill aims to limit the power of self-regulation of these associations, while increasing the State's powers of protection over them. Therefore, Mr President, it is fair to think that this bill ends in itself, in fact, an attempt by the Socialist Party and the Government to limit the role of particularly uncomfortable professional orders for socialist governance in the past year and a half.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u123	The Order of Doctors has long denounced the rupture of hospitals and the National Health Service. In fact, in the last year and a half, it was particularly active, as it would be expected to assess the way in which the pandemic was managed, often standing against the decisions of the government. The Advocates'Order also often makes critical judgments in relation to the performance of the Government. For example, Mr Bastonário's criticism of the Minister of Justice at the beginning of last week by the Ministry of Justice failed to comply with the law requiring the Government to regulate within 30 days the law amending the procedures for electronic distribution of judicial proceedings. The CDS argues that unjustified restrictions on regulated professions should be eliminated in line with what has been defended and recommended by the European Commission. We defend the amendment of our legislation to eliminate unjustified or disproportionate obstacles to the exercise of the fundamental right to free choice of professional activity. We defend that the statutes of the various orders also remove these obstacles. however, we do not accept that any legislative amendment, in this context, should be taken into account of the loss of independence of professional orders, much less if this loss of independence is due to greater interference by the State and, much less, if this interference has as its scope reasons of political nature. The legal regime applicable to professional public associations must continue, rather, the principles of self-regulation, administrative decentralization and transparency. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u124	I have the floor for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Ascenso Simões.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This debate on the change to the legal systems of professional orders is, contrary to what many think, an easy-to-do debate. Professional orders were a creation of the Republic. The Lawyer Order was born in 1926, it is not, at all, a creation of the corporate regime. They, today, are corporate and still assume a lot of this corporate regime. We can even say that some of the professional orders still have Industrial Conditioning on their heads. But the truth is, there have also been many changes. The Order of Advocates had staff who fought against fascism; the Order of Doctors had staff who helped the creation and consolidation of the National Health Service; the Order of Engineers was relevant to the empowerment of the country as regards the credibility of public works. The question that arises today is whether we should be so radical, as the intelligent right of the Liberal Initiative proposes, to the point of putting an end to them. Let’s imagine that the Socialist Party presented a legislative initiative similar to the Liberal Initiative and said: “Let’s end professional orders”. What did the canisters say about the Socialist Party's legislative initiative? Oh, my God! « The Government and the Socialist Party want to break professional orders! » This attempt to mark all the activities of the institutions, which breathe freedom, what would be with this initiative of the Liberal Initiative? Well, but what would also be if the Socialist Party arrived here and said: «We will end the examination done by the Advocates' Order and, as in Spain, we will do so by a state body». So the Carmo, the Trinity and Parliament would fall in that circumstance where this legislative initiative would be presented here! [[Protests by PSD MP Monica Quintela.]] Mrs. Member, let me speak, please! Don't you mind? We're having a serious debate, we're not dealing with our lawyer's box, our doctor's office or our engineering office. We are dealing with the interests of the country and access to regulated professions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Deputy, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, the Socialist Party here presents an initiative which is the result of its electoral programme. The Socialist Party here presents an initiative which is a recommendation from various international institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u126	Which ones?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u127	The Socialist Party here presents an initiative which is even a claim of some of the cantonaries who went through orders. The Socialist Party presents an initiative that wants to treat differently what is different, i.e. a public association that is the Order of Physiotherapists is completely different from a public association that is the Order of Lawyers. Let's understand the country, let's normalize what needs to be normalized and modernize what needs to be modernized. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, here, we have an agreement. That is, most of the parties and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, with the exception of Mr Ventura and Mr Telmo Correia, have given the signal that we need to continue the way, that is, this PS initiative is not a closed initiative. And when they say, "They have not heard anyone! », we may not have heard anyone, but we have heard more than 50 institutions and now we start the watch to hear who needs to hear.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u129	Now we're going to make the arrangements, or not, with the institutions out there. It is now Parliament's responsibility to legislate. You do not want to turn the Socialist Party into the single party of this Parliament, which is not! Parliament itself assumes the responsibility to legislate. There are some points that have not been agreed by some parties: in relation to the first point, on disciplinary or interdisciplinary societies, we will consider; in the second point, the stages, especially for lawyers, because in the other sectors this question is not put, we will consider; in relation to matters relating to the supplier, to his framework, to his form of choice, we will consider; in relation to matters relating to the Supervisory Board, we will consider. Now, let's make the way which is not to throw out the boy with the bath water. Let us take the path of being able to meet the circumstances, which is that we will be able to meet those young people who want access to regulated professions and do not succeed, which is that we need specialists and the Medical Order does not accept any more openings for specialties. Let us keep up with the time we live, let us be a modern Parliament that meets in the professional partner order to make the path of that same modernity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u130	I have the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Moniz.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate we are having, it is important to focus on the fact that the first task of professional orders is to defend the public interest, in particular public confidence in regulated professions. That's very important! The first interest in orders is not its members, but to ensure that the common citizen, when resorting to a doctor, when resorting to an engineer, is assured that the orders, by delegation of the State, guarantee professional competence, which is different from the specific qualification for that person to exercise that profession. This is fundamental. This was done many years ago and, while the courses were not accredited, as they are today, by the A3ES (Agence de Avalação e Accreditação do Indino Superior), were the orders that see if the curricula in universities guarantee the conditions for that professional to exercise that profession. It is not enough condition, and that is essential. I give you two very concrete examples. For example, do you believe that a student who finished the course of medicine with 20 values and devoted himself to marketing... would you like to be operated by a doctor of this kind? Oh, my God! It is not a doctor — this is the fundamental issue. There must be a call to translate, accordingly, the qualification that is obtained at the university with the exercise of the profession, and this only the orders can do, because it is the orders that exercise the profession and they have this competence and knowledge. Second dimension of public interest: orders have, throughout history, before and after 25 April, benefited from a central aspect for society and for the country, which is its independence. This independence is a value that cannot be be embellished nor can it have interference, because it is through this independence that the order defends what is best for the country; that often says that governments are taking options that are not technically sustainable; and that they face the political powers installed and the interests that are hidden in front of the initiatives that often come here for pseudo improvement. I cannot fail to mention an important aspect, either. in recent events, and whenever the poles of certain orders, in their independent understanding, have come to point out failures to the action of the government, we received a first warning, which was the signal and the foreword that we would be here today discussing this matter. This warning was given through the Prime Minister, who said : « Orders do not exist to monitor the State ». That was the first warning. Of course, we have ended here with a proposal that has a supervisory body consisting mostly of external elements in order. They're not elected, that's a fallacy. Mr. Secretary of State said: "No, no, Mr. Bastonário chooses between three candidates, he chooses." But three candidates are taxed! Attention, let's be clear and strict!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u132	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u133	But we say more: in your proposal, you do not find the mandate of this provider. Is he vital? Does it match the mandates of the electors? That's not on the proposal. Note this: this interference is nothing more than an objective manipulation and bites on the degree of freedom of orders and opinions. I will even point out an important aspect, which is the following: it is written that the Supervisory Board also goes to the level of public consultations. This means that a cantonary who wants to speak against the location of an airport, a maternity facility, an undue hospital practice is silenced. That's what's here in your proposal. [[Mr Simões's laughs.]] Don't laugh, Mr, because we've known this goal for a long time. It's an almost hidden way of putting a bite. That's what we're talking about, and it's--it's uncomfortable. You want the cherry on the top of the cake? I'll give it to him. The Government, according to your proposal, has 120 days for the orders to be amended. Contrary to what was done in the past, in which the orders were involved, you come to speak about the involvement of the orders, but in this particular case they are excluded. The Government shall submit the proposal to this House without the participation of the orders. [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] That's what you wrote! Don't say no, because that's what's written. But, look, this opportunity has a strategic objective. When this, as it is here, was in force and the million PRR were rolling in all the planning that is planned, there would probably no longer be any opportunity of any order, of any cantonary to point out to you the errors of choice based on technical basis. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u134	I cannot finish without referring to a very important issue. If, in fact, what is intended is the contribution and modernisation of law enforcement bodies, professional public associations, I am not repulsed or shocked by the existence of other people in the bodies outside the scope of the profession. It's good, it's welcome. What cannot happen is that these people are mostly and are directly or indirectly proposed by the Government and the State. This is the risk and that is what we are watching. It is this threat and this bite that, in a subtle way, they want to intervene. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u135	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes spoke for the closing of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first conclusion to be drawn at the end of this debate is that the Socialist Party was right when it included in its electoral programme the need to revisit the framework law of professional orders and its legal regime. This parliamentary group was right when it presented its proposal, which today was debated and was the target of hearings over a year and a half, having heard numerous professional associations and orders. The choice is very simple in this Parliament. The PSD bench is divided: Mrs Clara Marques Mendes thinks that this diploma has legs to walk and that it is worth working on — we applaud, we agree and, in the field of expertise, we will be here — and Mrs Monica Quintela and Mr Paulo Moniz find, here-d' el-rei, that what we want, in the House of Democracy, is to put a bite and silence people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u137	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u138	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the single purpose of this diploma is very simple: it is to know which side this Parliament is on. And for all the interventions that have been heard here, Parliament must be available, as a specialist, to improve what needs to be improved, but it will be next to removing restrictions and restrictions on access and the exercise of the profession. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is the main reason why we are here saying that we want to remove blockades and absurdities that are intolerable in access to the profession, either in the duplication of certification of things that have already been certified by the universities, either in the inadmissible costs of some orders in access to the profession through payment of quotas, or in the need for orders to defend the public interest, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. So we don't confuse orders and unions. Both have their role, but professional orders have the historical role and historical mission to defend the public interest and that the self-regulation of professions is ethically respected. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second reason is that we cannot systematically hate our youth, the most qualified generation... If there is merit that democracy has to bet on the qualifications of the younger frameworks, the qualifications of generations behind generations, and, therefore, what we say here is that the absurdities we find today are limiting the access of the younger to professions. A young person who wants to be a doctor finds restrictions in order that are absurd and intolerable. A young man who leaves a law school and wants to be a lawyer finds absolute restrictions, which must be definitely withdrawn. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the choice of this Parliament is one of a more modern, more competitive country, more job-generating and capable of telling younger generations that they have freedom to choose and exercise their profession. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the end of this debate, the challenge, especially to the voices of the PSD that have spoken here, is that we are not afraid of the echoes of social communication or some resistances of professional orders, because what we challenge all the benches is that, in the field of specialty, we can have a law that really answers to the problems of access and the exercise of self-regulated professions, that solves the problems of access of younger people to professions and that allows Portugal to be a more competitive, more modern country, by removing abuses and absurd because the disorder that reigns in orders cannot continue to exist. This is the contribution of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u139	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before announcing the agenda for tomorrow's sitting, Mrs Sofia Araújo will give us an opinion. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u140	Mr President, I inform the House that you have entered into the Bureau an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members in order to authorize Mrs Romualda Fernandes ( PS ) to testify in writing to the Court of Justice of the district of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-13.u141	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I should like to draw up the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, which will start from 3 p.m. at the first point, the Bill No. 891 / XIV / 2 will be appreciated. a ( PS ) — Approves the framework law on the allocation of the population category. of the second point is the assessment of Decree-Law No 51 / 2021 of 15 June adopting the Consular Regulation[ Parliamentary appraisal No 51 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ). in the third point, we will proceed to the joint discussion of Bills Nos 872 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — prolongs the deadline for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis ( sixth amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September ), 880 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — prolongs the deadline for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis ( sixth amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September ), 913 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — prolongs the deadline for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis ( sixth amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September ) and 967 / XIV/ 3. a (PAN) — The extension of the deadline for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis and guarantees transparency mechanisms in this process, amending Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September. of the fourth item on the agenda is the joint assessment of Bills Nos 44 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Replies the payment values of the supplementary work for all workers ( tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, and tenth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June approving the General Labour Law in Public Functions ), and 955 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ) — Resets the value of additional work and compensatory rest, deepening the recovery of income and contributing to job creation, proceeding in the public and private sectors. in the fifth point, draft resolution No 80 / XIV / 1 will be discussed. a ( CDS-PP ) — For an integrated family recovery and birth policy. Finally, at the sixth point, we will appreciate the Draft Resolution No 1451 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government develop and implement an integrated national strategy to combat loneliness as a strategic public health axis. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded this plenary session. Until tomorrow and very late to everyone. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 18 minutes.]]
