ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the authority, I declare open the sitting. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] The doors can be opened to the public. We will begin our meeting, whose agenda was set by the PS, with the general discussion of Bills Nos. 993 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — Increases the period of absence justified by the death of a descendant of 1. the degree in the straight or equal line ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No. 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 767 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the parental mourning regime and recognize the right to mourning in case of gestational loss, 926 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Change the mourning failure regime by making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 927 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extends the period of deficiencies justified by the death of a spouse, relative or relative ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 949 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — by the extension of the period of absences justified by the death of spouse, parenteeouafim or gestational loss ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 1018 / XIV / 3. a ( PSD ) — Extension of the period of deficiencies justified by the death of a child for 20 days, 1023 / XIV/ 3. a ( PCP ) — The days of errors justified by the death of descendants 1 shall be extended. the degree of the line straight, spouse, ascending, relatives or related (thirteenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No. 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 1024 / XIV / 3. a ( IL) — Alter the scheme of errors justified by the death of a descendant e1025 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH) — Increases the mourning days provided for in the Labour Code and recognizes the right to mourning in case of gestational loss, together with Petition No 317 / XIV/3. a (Creating — Association of Parents and Friends of Children with Cancer, and others) — Amendment of the legal regime of parental mourning. But first of all, I will give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to give us some important information.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to note that they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 1539 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 1540 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 1541 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH ), which falls to 8. the Commission. Mr President, we have to vote on some of the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which I shall now announce. At the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Juiz do Trabalo da Maia — Judge 1, Case No 4383 / 20.8T8MAI, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion authorising Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira ( PSD ) to make a written statement within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the NAP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Please continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Members, at the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Aveiro, Judge of Criminal Instruction of Santa Maria da Feira — Judge 2, Inquiry No 700 / 17.6GDVFR, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr João Oliveira ( PCP ) to make a written statement within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u5	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the NAP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Please continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u6	Mr. President and Mr. Members, at the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Juiz do Trabalo da Maia — Juiz 1, Case No 4383 / 20.8T8MAI, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Joaquim Barreto ( PS ) to give written testimony within the scope of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u7	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the NAP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Please continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u8	Mr. President and Mr. Members, at the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Juízo Local Criminal de Lisboa — Juiz 14, Case No 9862 / 18.4T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Fernando Negrão ( PSD ) to make a written statement within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u9	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the NAP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Please continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u10	Mr. President and Mr. Members, at the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office — Procurator's Office of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Porto, DIAP, section of Santo Tirso, NIUPC 566 / 20.9T9STS, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize the Deputy Minister Inês de Sousa Real (PAN ) to present testimony, as a witness, within the framework of the said cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u11	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the NAP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Please continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u12	Mr. President and Mr. Members, at the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa — Judge of Criminal Instruction of Lisbon, Judge 5, Inquiry No 7233 / 20.1T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mrs Cristina Rodrigues ( Nsc. ) within the scope of the said cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u13	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u14	Mr. President, that's all.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u15	Thank you, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Let us, then, enter our agenda, already announced by me. To present the Socialist Party project, Parliamentary Group which has set the agenda, has the floor of Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: mourning and death are, in itself, themes of intimacy, of privacy that little is given to public discourses. That is why, Mr President, I will be very brief. This is not a public debate issue, it is first a reflection on private pain. This is not a theme that divides parties, and all of us, I really believe that all of us, bow before those who have to live the pain of this infamous, abominable, unquantified loss and for all of their lives. We know that we are mortals, but we live without much thought of death, without thinking about the death of those who love us. We live almost in the hope that it will not happen, we do not think of it, "in that" whose name we do not want to mention, so that we can continue with life. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the loss of a child is considered one of the most traumatic experiences experienced by humans. This mourning is defined as an intense, complex and long-lasting process, given its incomprehensible and devastating nature. For these factors, the mourning for a child tends to be longer than all other struggles, as « can last a lifetime», as read in the petition to this Assembly of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a Parliament must be the voice of the citizens and the petition signed by 82 000 people has awakened us to injustice in the law. The cry that is heard in this petition is a pain lived in silence and can only call us to respond, as far as a Parliament can, to its appeal. What we do today, in this House of the Republic, deeply thanking all the petitioners who have brought us this possibility, is to correct, as far as possible, the injustice of the law, and therefore cannot correct the injustice of life. I use the words of someone who describes this pain, because I have no words that can convey the greatest suffering. Walter Hassin said: “It is from the seed of love that blooms longing... It is from the harvest of the fruit that arises something we call ‘ bonds. ’ And it is when life unravels them that we call ‘ loss. ’ Unreparable losses. Losses that have no name. It hurts just to think. It's a pain that one day I heard being likened to an inverse delivery. Returning the son or daughter, without at least wondering if we give that permission. Tears that don't come out. I'm sorry we're missing the air. Fear of living. Fear never comes out of our heart. Fear of fear. Will you go crazy to come back seconds, or perhaps one thousandths of it, to yell for our son(... ) But nothing is possible. The ground is stolen, the heart seems to stop, butterflies fly anxiously into our soul. (...) Eyes that no longer open. Hands that won't flatter us anymore. Voice that won't tell us you're hungry or that you want that sweet that you only knew how to do. The moment of pain intensifies. The scene tortures us instead of calming us down. He is still here, even if no longer alive». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group responds to the call of the Accreditation Association, leaves a solidarity embrace to all family members and believes that it is fair to pretend to go from five days of unjustified misdemeanours to 20 days, if one day we can quantify this pain. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on this day when we meet and repair this injustice, we know, therefore, that we respect the silence that is imposed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u17	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate you — Association of Parents and Friends of Children with Cancer, for having launched the petition that calls for the amendment of the parental mourning regime and which has driven the various projects under discussion today. I am aware that the increase in the number of days of losses justified by the loss of a child brings together consensus in this House, going to meet what is defended by Accreditar. However, I remember that those who suffer a gestational loss also lose a child. At present, our Labour Code does not recognize the right to mourning these parents, although this loss also has a strong and profound emotional impact. To deny your right to mourning is to tell these people that your pain is not recognized or valued. at this point, I cannot fail to recognize the work of Project Artémis and other organizations, with the families that have just found no support in the public service. The working mother has only the right to leave for termination of pregnancy, to be attributed by her doctor. However, this is not confused with the right to mourning, which must be guaranteed both to the mother and to the father, who, in this process, often ends up being unjustly forgotten, as well as to the beneficiaries of the replacement pregnancy. It is time for this House to change the regime of mourning, as well as devote a humanized approach to gestational loss to the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u19	You have the floor by the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, to present the respective bill and to participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before we begin this debate, and this is our first intervention, we cannot fail to make a reference to the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, honoring all the victims — the survivors and also the 23 women who have already died this year — welcoming their families in this grief and extending our solidarity to all. We also pay tribute to non-governmental organizations and institutions that have been dedicated to their protection, strengthening their commitment to promoting initiatives that promote equality and the end of violence against women. As for the debate that brings us here, we began by welcoming Accrediting, the more than 83,000 petitioners and all the families who at one time lost the most important person in their lives: a son or a daughter. The greater respect and support for this cause must indeed unite the Assembly of the Republic and translate into a legislative initiative that emanates from the various proposals that have been brought today and which respond to this petition. From the very first moment, the NAP associated itself with this cause, first of all presenting a proposal for amendment to the Labour Code law which, in a totally unjust way, attributes only five days of justified misconduct to parents and mothers who have lost a child or a daughter. It is with great pleasure that we see, in fact, the strong accession of other parties by accompanying, too, this petition that brings many families to the Assembly of the Republic. The death of a child or a daughter, regardless of age, is such a devastating loss that I personally cannot even imagine. The deep suffering that such an event will cause will accompany, as we know, these parents and mothers for the rest of their lives, regardless of the years that, in the meantime, have passed. I don't know this experience in the first person, but I had a grandmother who lost a child and I know that until the end of her days, she always remembered her son, who accompanied her every day of her life. If the loss of a loved one is already extremely painful, the death of a child outweighs any pain, often being felt as the death of the parents themselves, for those who live no longer make sense. We have often heard that when a child is born a father and a mother, because when a child dies, we know that he also dies in some way, that same father and that same mother. We bring here a witness, the courageous case of a mother, Philippi, who allowed us to use her real witness and to whom we thank. in his words, Philippi tells us the process of these parents and mothers: "The death of a child is a brutal event, without explanation of violence. Even in the context of a disease such as cancer, however serious the situation may be explained, even when we realize that the child of the family with whom we share the disease died, although we are in contact with this harsh reality, nothing prepares us for the shock of seeing a child stop breathing. Do not keep on seeking. ” These parents need time. They need time to restructure, time to find strategies, time to gather forces and get up, time to get support from the family, to look inside, need time to recover physically and psychologically. They need time! They need a lot of help, it is a fact, they need those who are patient to listen to them, those who don't even run away when the conversations are rough and make them swallow dry, they need psychological support, among many other aids. But the time needed to start doing their most basic tasks, in particular the time they need to return to work responsibly, as human beings and not as automatons, can have a truly important impact on the rest of their lives. And this time, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, don't go along with it for just five days. It is true that they will not be the same people who were before, but the extension of the time of parental mourning in the Labour Code from five to 20 days can give time to make a big difference, which is not only for the discomfort of having to deal with a mesh of bureaucracy following one of the most violent episodes in their lives. Filipa also told us, in her testimony, that the shocking response that existed on the part of society and the committed way in which she was united with this cause leads her to hope and to believe, she and all the parents and mothers who have gone through it, that the future parents will have more time. But now it is necessary to carry out. The Order of Portuguese Psychologists itself has already expressed solidarity with this cause, making an opinion that defends that the bonds between parents and children are considered the strongest emotional ties and that scientific evidence describes the loss of a child as one of the most difficult and stressful life events for anyone. For this reason, the risk of prolonged mourning in these cases is twice as high as that of other losses. In fact, in many cases the suffering is such that it takes 80% of these parents to wish their own death after the loss of their child. And many report that suffering does not decrease over time, only become living with a sense of permanent loss. We cannot also forget in this debate of gestational loss, a matter that is little spoken and understood in our society, which ignores the emotional violence that is for a mother and a father—in particular for the mother—have to pass the entire process of childbirth of a child and see a project of life, a family project already born without life. We all know that these early days are essential, but there is something that we, as legislator, and society are called upon to respond. In addition to having the duty to act as a village, to encourage these parents and mothers to be able to have support that supports their pain, support that enables them to continue forward, without specifying any kind of term, in particular legal—as if mourning was conditional on these days—it will be up to the law to influence society itself, recognizing the right to mourning for 20 days, both of parents and mothers who lose their child either of the mothers with gestational loss, in these cases, but also increasing the time limit for when a loved one is lost, because it does not make any sense that someone who loses a partner in a lifetime has so little time to re-establish himself. Today we are all called upon to recognize that the current regime is insufficient to protect psychological health, the well-being of these parents and mothers and also to protect our society in the face of the emotional duty that everyone has to be able to experience joy, but also pain. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u21	You have the floor to present the draft of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There will perhaps be, between us and, certainly, in the galleries of this Chamber, those who have the distressing experience that we are talking about today. for my part, I can't imagine the pain of losing a child, but I know, how, in fact, we all know, that it's cruel the law we have, that gives only five days of mourning for this inexpressible and traumatic event. To Accredit — Association of Parents and Friends of Children with Cancer, which honours and greets with immense recognition and respect, made a petition to extend this period to 20 days and collected, in a few days, more than 80 000 signatures. The motion for a petition that triggered this debate says the essential: « The mourning of a life does not fit in five days». in fact, as has already been said, mourning can last all life, it is different from person to person, it varies over time, it goes and comes, depending on what we believe, how we frame our experiences, but also the circumstances of our social and family network, of so many things. It will certainly not be in 20 days that this long journey takes place, but one thing is certain: the legal forecast of such a short period — only five days — to recover such a traumatic event is clearly out of the reach of the reality and needs of those who work. How can it be said that at the end of five days people are in emotional conditions to go to work? But it is not only the emotional dimension, it is also the vicissitudes of the bureaucratic process itself that is associated with it, it is all that needs to be done and reorganized. Therefore, taking this step, which the petition we are debating today calls on Parliament, is an element of common sense and of basic sensitivity. in reality, the deadlines are short for any situation that are provided for in the Labour Code associated with mourning. Two days for a brother's death, isn't it? It's little. We therefore believe that, taking advantage of these rules of the Code, we should adjust the whole of these deadlines by increasing them all in a balanced proportion. If, in the case of the loss of a child, the five days are shocking and need to change, it would also be fair to provide a more generous period for other situations, thus looking for more time for a process that is always tough from multiple points of view. It will be said that, in some cases, employers already go beyond the periods laid down in the law for this purpose, and that is true. But this shows, in essence, that there is recognition that the law is not what the practice should be. On the other hand, some have argued, particularly in the hearings we have done, that there are workers who may want to return to work quickly and that this can be part of their process. Surely, but this will always be your choice, even if the law gives you the right to a longer period, since it is a right for the worker to exercise in the molds in which he understands and does not have an obligation independent of his will. What can't happen is that workers are dependent on what their employer understands. The law must ensure in this respect that all workers are guaranteed the same right to these days and that is the step we must take today. In fact, there is still another gap that we should not turn our faces, even if it is different. The Labour Code does not provide for any period in cases of gestational loss. This is, in fact, a sort of unrecognized mourning, because there is still no social validation of this loss, even if it may entail a strong emotional, psychological, physical impact, to which, in our view, it must correspond a period of recovery which must have an expression in the law of work. To guarantee, in these cases, the right to be justly absent from work is also the most basic justice. There is no shortage of studies demonstrating that the more advanced pregnancy is, the greater the feeling of loss and shock. The Block proposes that it may be possible to miss work justifiably in cases of gestational loss, defining different periods according to 1. the quarter or after 1. The trimester. Finally, in addition to these changes to the period of errors justified in the case of parental mourning, death of relatives and gestational loss—of course with a different number of days— it is important to clarify a more technical aspect, but of great impact on the application of the law. It is that, for the purpose of counting the deadline, rest days, holidays and holidays should not be counted. This amendment meets the understanding already validated by the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ), through a technical note, by the Ombudsman's Office and by vast doctrine. According to all these authorities, the time limit for counting these shortcomings should be suspended on rest days, holidays and holidays, since there are shortcomings that have to occur on effective working days. Even though this understanding is now much more consolidated than in the past, we know that many companies continue to dispute this interpretation, so nothing like clarifying in the law the meaning of the application of the rule. I finish as I started and again greet the Association Believe. This association, which is dedicated to the follow-up of children and families in the context of oncological diseases, managed to include the theme of parental mourning in the agenda and made it possible for almost all parties to present proposals. With the strength of the cause of Accreditation, with their testimonies that have sensitized everyone, the obstacles of custom have fallen to changing the law of work. No party has dared to demand the agreement of social consultation or has defended the stability of labour law in this matter. No party was opposed to specific changes to labour law. The Labour Code will even change by impulse of the Accreditation and on the initiative of the Assembly of the Republic and the amendment will be, to which everything indicates, consensual and rapid. We welcome the Association to believe in this citizen and civic mobilization. It is a very important achievement on such a sensitive subject and it is also an example that remains for other people who fight for justice and recognition. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u23	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u24	Mr. President and Mr. Members: Ensuring the right to mourning under dignified and humanizing conditions is an imperative of social justice and an indispensable necessity in a society which aims to promote compassion among its citizens and citizens and to ensure quality of life at various levels, respect for the lives of these individuals and respect for the lives of their family members and their neighbors. I am grateful to the Association To believe that we have been guided and I also thank the various parties for unity in an area that has nothing to do with ideologies, which has nothing to do with anything but human existence. This is an initiative aimed at ensuring the right to be legitimately absent from work in case of loss of family members, but also in case of gestational loss, increasing the days and hours that will only symbolize the level of pain, sometimes infinite.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u25	Mr Sandra Pereira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The loss of a child is a disruptive event in the life of any family and constitutes a deeply traumatic incident, with great suffering and with great repercussions on mental health. There are no words that can describe such pain. The positions of various specialists, both medical and social areas, are known, who draw attention to this parental mourning, which is a phenomenon of great complexity, which prolongs over time and reaches all those who deal with the bereaved. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no possible remedy to the loss of a child. It is impossible to quantify the pain felt by a parent or by a mother when a child is lost. This is an abnormal and extraordinary situation that profoundly alters the heart of the family and there is no law that can overcome this situation. Parliament has recently been called upon by a civic strike, launched by the Accreditation Association, through a petition called « The mourning of a life does not fall within five days », which has more than 82 000 signatures and which aims, exactly, to review the legal regime of parental mourning. This initiative has given rise to a great deal of reflection within society and political decision-makers. The PSD Parliamentary Group would not fail to follow this reflection and this public debate, is in solidarity with the drama these families are facing and is proposing to Parliament the extension of the period of errors justified by the death of a child up to 20 days. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this reflection focused on a reasonable commitment between a minimum possible recovery time of the parent and a time that is required for companies to support the absence of the worker. There is no reasonable time for the recovery of the loss of a child, however, what we know is that the current five days set up in the law for return to work are insufficient and end up being consumed with bureaucratic tasks and customs, which do not allow a minimum of emotional restoration of the suffering that parents go through living a reality of these. Actually, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what happens, already very often in the face of this situation, is the use of a low psychiatric condition that, paying attention to the weakness of the mental health of those who face such loss, is, with great ease, clinically attested. The PSD proposal aims to call on society and the State to associate themselves with this family tragedy. Our proposal aims, above all, to follow the claims of the Accreditary Association and a more balanced view, in terms of costs, of this measure. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are challenging the other parliamentary groups, who have taken initiatives on this matter, so that they share this reflection so that together we can present a solution that goes to the families and the suffering they suffer and also to the companies that suffer the embarrassment of the absence of the worker. We propose a joint vision that includes companies, families and workers, a view of society. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, not before making a special greeting to the association Believe by this call you have called us with. I leave a word of comfort and solidarity to all the parents who live this family tragedy. You can count on the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u27	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by welcoming the Accrediting Association, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, which has stimulated Petition No 317 / XIV/ 3. a, requesting the amendment of the legal regime of parental mourning, which is also under discussion today, as well as the more than 82 000 petitioners who have subscribed to it, and also commend the Parliamentary Group of the PS for the scheduling of this debate. The situation resulting from the loss of a child and parental mourning in a broader way, its emotional dimension and the consequences on the lives of family members deserve great attention and response to the needs felt by families, especially by parents and mothers who suffer these losses. It is intended to respond to these situations that the CFP presents this initiative to extend the days of absences justified to work up to 20 days for situations of parental mourning, ensuring more time for parents and mothers to read and face, within possible, the situation resulting from the loss of a child, which is a tremendously painful situation, described as devastating, which contradicts the expectations of the development of life and which has harmful psychological effects, often irreversible. In these situations, this is a continuous mourning that does not even begin to solve or face within a short period of time, particularly in the five working days that are provided for today in the Labour Code. This concrete situation requires that we consider the deep suffering associated with this loss and its need for time that enables us to find mechanisms to deal with this situation, not only in the individual dimension of those who suffer the loss, but also in the creation of conditions of availability for other elements of the family, especially for other children also affected by this same loss. The extension of the days of absences to work, justified and paid, for the parents who suffer these losses, does not solve or diminish their pain, nor does it mean the end of mourning — which can even last a lifetime — has to be linked with psychological support, something that the CFP also proposes on this initiative. It is also important to say, in this regard, that the extension of the days of absences justified to work due to the loss of a child does not forget nor can it alter the current legal provisions relating to child follow-up, nor does it eliminate the need for the strengthening of these same conditions, especially in situations of children with chronic illness, disability or cancer, both in dispensation at work, and in the need to ensure emotional support, since these situations also translate into long and emotionally painful processes. These needs that are more acutely felt by women—we cannot fail to mention them, on whom, in the overwhelming majority of situations, it is the responsibility of accompanying children, in a context where inequalities between men and women are still quite evident. Despite the need to find answers to the specific situation of parental mourning, the CFP believes that other situations of loss of family members, also emotionally difficult, need legislative changes in order to extend the days of fault justified to work, and therefore we present concrete proposals for this : of 15 days in situations of death of spouse, including in a situation of de facto union, or other ascending 1. the degree of the straight line, and eight days for the death of other family members in the right line or no 2. the degree of the collateral line, also applying these provisions to the situations of affinity. We also propose that these days of justified misconduct consider only the effective working days, and that they should not be counted weekly or holiday days, and that we still safeguard the full right of holiday enjoyment, and that these days should not be caused by mourning to absorb other rest times and holidays to which workers are entitled. With this initiative we ensure that working parents and mothers have a longer window to deal with the loss of a child, but also that workers have more time to deal with other situations of loss of death without prejudice to their labour rights or to their remuneration. This is the contribution we have left here, without prejudice to other initiatives and proposals that we have put forward, and in which we will continue to insist, in particular on strengthening maternity and paternity rights, on strengthening the conditions of child follow-up and family assistance. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u29	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet the thousands of petitioners and, in particular, the Association Believe that I have promoted this petition on parental mourning, which is a matter of greater importance and sensitivity. This petition defends the increase from five to 20 days of the number of days of failures justified by the death of a child, referring to the harsh reality of who goes through this most dramatic of the experiences. The period of five consecutive days is, and I quote the petition, « the period necessary for the treatment of formalities relating to the death of a human being, not even a worthy period of work rest for the effective exercise of the devastating parental mourning ». A society sensitive to human suffering and its impact on mental health should not force a citizen to return to work a few days after a causing event of innominable pain like the loss of a child. Thus, the Liberal Initiative proposes that this period of justified failures be increased to 20 consecutive days, attributing the charges of these deficiencies to the employer until the fifth day and to social security within the following 15 days. This solution allows us to accept a right for which there is an extended consensus and at the same time does not disproportionately burden companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the majority of our business fabric. It is fair that it is the State, which collects high taxes and contributions to its citizens, to support them exactly at times of greatest need and at the time of making the mourning of pain that time will not be able to extinguish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u31	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the Acreditar association, which has indeed brought one of the themes which, as few, can unite the various poles of democracy. As has been said, the pain of death does not divide, and unites, as few subjects, this Assembly of the Republic. When we look at Portuguese law, even in the current situation of the European Union, the mourning period for the death of family members is clearly insufficient. It is true that there are countries in the European Union that have the shorter ones, but it is also true that in those countries there are consolidated practices that extend these rights. The law, as always, should be weighted and appropriate to the various interests at stake, but there are moments in life in which the values of humanism overcome any legal, laboral constraints, legislative stability or participation in social consultation, to which we must attend. Death and the right to mourning is one such case. No one can say that it is just a law that gives two days for the death of a brother or five days for the death of a child. But we should also think if we should not go a little further, now that we take a relevant civilizational step: the right to mourning, in the case of gestational or neonatal loss, is one of the least recognized socially, is one of the least validated and is of those for which society looks less and gives less importance and relief. Although suffering is significant and relevant, socially and personally, we continue to look at it as if it were a huge insignificance. The step taken in the proposal of the Arrival is also to recognize the right to mourning in the event of gestational loss, constituting a great civil advancement. As I have said, there are a few issues that unite us as much as this one, perhaps what during this legislature has brought us together and, only for that reason, deserves to be one of the last and most important lines of approval of the Assembly of the Republic. The consensus shown shows that, in very important cases, we are here to take up our work. Again, I leave a greeting to the petitioners and to the work that has been done. I think the Assembly of the Republic is with a huge brand image when you finish the Legislature, approving a project like this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u33	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecologist Party (“The Greens”) spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have today to discuss an extended set of legislative initiatives with the aim of extending the days of justified misconduct, as a result of mourning. The first note that the Greens want to leave in this debate is to remember that, despite the fact that it was the PS to proceed with the scheduling of this important matter, which we naturally welcome, the procedural impulse belongs to the Association Acreditar, which has promoted and stimulated the petition that is also under discussion today. It is a petition from which two very clear objectives arise, on the one hand, to bring to the discussion the need to look, with an eye to see, to the situation of parents and mothers who lose their children, which, as the petitioners point out, « is one of the most traumatic experiences for the human being», and in this circumstance parents « are not in a position to return to work in such a short time as in the last week». The second objective of the petition is to allow the Assembly of the Republic to take measures to extend the period of parental mourning. Therefore, the first words are for the subscribers of this petition, which, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, I welcome, in particular, those who accompany the work here with us. It is a greeting which, of course, also extends to the Accreditation Association, which promoted and dynamized this petition that affects such an important and so delicate subject. In fact, we all recognize that the loss of a close relative is absolutely painful and, when it comes to a child, the dimension of pain is not likely to be translated into words. We speak of a loss that we human beings are not prepared to accept. The void that settles is not only accompanied by pain that does not fit in this world, it is still accompanied by a set of psychological effects that cannot be solved by time. However, if we all recognize the dimension of this suffering, the dimension of this pain and what represents this feeling of loss, we also recognize that, in the face of such a situation, it is cruel without size forcing people to return to work at the end of five days, as happens today, in the wake of, in fact, the rules of the Labour Code. The Greens therefore consider that, in these situations, it is absolutely imperative to extend the days of fault justified to work, giving at least more time so that people can face, with a relative distance, their day-to-day return to work. What is intended is to give people time to allow them to gain some defenses and seek strength to return to their daily lives. In view of the whole of the legislative initiatives we have before us today, I must say that the Greens generally follow the proposals that aim to extend exactly the days of justified misconduct, even if we have some reservations on proposals that, by extending the deadline, provide that, from the sixth day, social security is to bear the wage, as is the case with the proposals of the PSD and the Liberal Initiative, which we will not vote in favour. And we have reservations because we believe that it must be employers, even out of respect and solidarity with the worker, to bear the payback of the days of justified misconduct, not social security. Therefore, with these reservations and reservations, the Greens accompany the whole of the remaining proposals under discussion, including the proposals that aim to fill the gap in the Labour Code concerning gestational loss. In fact, the Labour Code does not establish any period of justified misconduct for cases of gestational loss and the Greens also consider it necessary to respond to this omission. This is because gestational loss also causes suffering, pain and feeling of loss and drags with consequences, emotionally, psychologically and physically. Therefore, it is also necessary here to establish a period of recovery, that is to say, it is necessary to bring justice also to the people who go through these situations. It is therefore necessary, in the perspective of the Greens, to also enshrine in the Labour Code, the right to justified errors in the event of gestational loss. As you can easily see — which, moreover, is confirmed by studies on gestational loss — the more advanced pregnancy is, the greater the pain, the suffering and the feeling of loss. Therefore, it seems sensible to us that the graduation of the justified failure period may take into account the fact that gestational loss occurs during the first trimester of pregnancy or after the first trimester. Finally, I would like to say that we consider the conditions to be created—by what we have heard today and by the set of proposals on the table—to achieve a good law, which responds to the essentials and which comes to bring justice in such a delicate matter. I take this opportunity to express the solidarity of the Greens Ecological Party to all families facing the reality of this debate. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u35	I ask the services to prepare the electronic table for the quorum registration. I also call for more inscriptions to intervene, because there are many parties that still have time for this and there is no Member. [[Pause.]] If there are no more entries for this point, we will proceed directly to the conclusion of this debate. We will give more time for the registration of entries for the electronic vote and, consequently, for the quorum registration to appear in the electronic table. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u36	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u37	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u38	To comply with your request and sign up to intervene on this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u39	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CDS-PP, I would like to say that, obviously, as has been mentioned here and underlined by several benches, to put this issue, from the point of view of the dramaticity of losing a child, it deserves no doubt, any kind of disagreement, and could not be otherwise. What was said here by some benches, which chose, moreover, to follow only this reflection with a dimension that would say philosophical or poetic, as was done by Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, cannot deserve any kind of disagreement or doubt. Therefore, the CDS does not flee to this consensus, to this reality and begins by complimenting the petitioners and the Accrediting association, which deals with this matter, which has put the issue on the agenda and in the media order and which deals, including with a question that I do not know will be the most dramatic, but is one of the most dramatic with which our society can live that is the oncological disease, especially in children. Obviously, there are many losses that do not derive from this cancer disease and that sometimes affect minors and children. We just need to think about what happens on our roads, accidents, finally, in many other circumstances that can lead to these losses. Therefore, that deserves no doubt, we do not run away from this consensus and we agree. however, we know that there are several issues here that may still deserve some reflection. The first thing I would stress is that not all bills tell us—and there are several countries that make this differentiation—if we are talking, for example, about minor children, or not. I am thinking, for example, of the French legal system, which establishes a rule up to a certain age and another rule, not of the same days, if it is another age, precisely by one of the arguments that the Association Acreditar put on the agenda which is the unnatural character of what a father or mother is watching, witnessing or knowing the death of a child. Obviously, the younger the child is, the greater the violence, let us say, this event. This is no exception, so we are not in a situation where this could be or not differentiated. I could be, but that's not the case. On the other hand, we accepted this consensus that was generated, of the 20 days, even if we could theoretically discuss whether we were going from five to twice, that would be 10, or to the triple, that would be 15, or to the quadruple, that would be 20 days. But consensus is widespread within 20 days and we will not break that consensus, so we will vote in favour of parental mourning spending for 20 days. Interestingly, a question has been put here by Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block, which I think is important and interesting when he asked us about whether we could also review other cases. I understand this idea and would say that, in my view, the method we are following also makes it difficult for this possibility, because making a more comprehensive review would eventually lead to a greater weighting, a greater analysis, a greater set of hearings. However, we now take the decision on the penultimate day of Parliament's work, making all the evaluation more difficult. However, I agree with you, if we are going to move in this matter, then perhaps the loss of a brother could also lead to a change in the mourning period. It would also make sense for gestational losses to be framed and weighed. But all of this would lead to a reflection, in our view, greater than that which we are doing. I also want to say that, in our view, it would be desirable for this matter to be framed and weighted in terms of social consultation — we always defend it and continue to defend it now, but that is not why we will leave the consensus. We will not come out of this consensus, but it makes sense. If we assign 20 days—and this even has a lot to do with the way in which mourning is understood and the way in which everyone lives—this concern has to do with the fact that people need time, that there are several ladies and gentlemen here. Members spoke of recovery, of the time to stir up the spirit to face day by day and to face life. This concern has to do with the time these parents and, by extending, other relatives need. Therefore, those who admit this must consider, at the same time, that this also has labour implications, the labour system and the companies themselves. when we say that we do not exclude ourselves from consensus, I would say that, for us, this consensus implies, if we are going to extend the deadline—and it is true, as other Members have already said, that the applicable regimes, in European terms, are disparate, going from months in Denmark to one day, paid in Italy, two days in Germany, finally, European regimes are very disparate, but in Portugal we are going to establish a humanist regime, humanist, solidarity, and that is what we agree — that we have to think this has an interference with companies. For those who like to talk in small businesses: the smaller they are companies, the greater the implication, because in a large company, in a large structure it is easier to replace, but in a small company it is more difficult. Therefore, the CDS is particularly close to the bills that have said here that they will not make this cost reflect entirely in the company, i.e. that it must be the company that supports what already exists in legal terms today, i.e. the five days, but that the remaining days should be, since they are a social responsibility of the whole community, supported by social security. That is also our understanding, we think that this is the best solution. And obviously we will not run away from a consensus that we consider fair, supportive and humanistic. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u41	For a short intervention, because time is short, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u42	I will try to make time, Mr. President. My speech follows Mr Telmo Correia's speech on the CDS. The honourable Member has raised a question here about whether the child who dies is older or not. Now, in our view, this is a false question because it doesn't make sense to be just five days for someone whose son who dies is 18 years old and 20 days old for someone whose son who dies is younger. in this sense, the NAP proposal provides an equal period for both cases, because parental pain and mourning should be treated with the same dignity, regardless of the age of the child concerned. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u43	To close the debate, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a debate, above all, of silence. I believe that the serene, in-depth and reflective form of this debate has taken place, uniting all parties, regardless of one or another article that may not entirely correspond to what we all think, shows that this is a debate that effectively unites all parties, depending on that which is inevitably the worst of the pains. I think we all have that notion. The worst pain involves humanism, implies emotion in the way this theme is inevitably treated, and the reports we received from Accreditation — Association of Parents and Friends of Children with Cancer were related reports. Surely some of those who brought us to the petition, with which we spoke and discussed, are here today in the galleries and we cannot even think about what some of these parents have gone through, what they have described to us, the painful way they have faced the death of a child. For a situation like this there are no five days, no 20 days, no days; there is an attempt to fight an unbearable pain, a grief that certainly does not pass away all life. But we need to understand this subject with humanism and, therefore, it is possible, as we see, to try to mitigate, if we can say so, a little of the difficulties, the adversity, the pain that a situation of these causes. Thus, the Socialist Party intended to set this agenda and present a project that corresponds, without drawing or removing, without adding or subtracting, to the claim of the Association Acreditar. As has been said by our parliamentary leader, the Socialist Party intends to spend 5 to 20 days on parental mourning for the loss of a child without doing, in this final line, our work, other amendments, other articles, other debates, which, inevitably, although legitimate, do not exactly correspond to the heart, to the object of this petition and which, difficultly, would allow a timely conclusion of our work, which, in fact, will take place soon after the end of this plenary, with an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Labour and Social Security to close the discussion in the field of specialty and we will be able to approve this diploma tomorrow, as I believe we will all do. Therefore, this is the focus of the Socialist Party that allows us to respond to the one that, in our understanding, was the expectation of these petitioners, to whom we thank social mobilization and, inevitably, to whom we share the pain that everyone felt at the moment so difficult that they all went through, I feel that we have extended to all the parents who face a situation like this by this country outside. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u45	We have thus reached the end of this first point on our agenda. We will move on to point 2, of which there is generally discussion of Bill No. 1026 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — Extension of the period of entry into force of Law No 73 / 2021 of 12 November approving the restructuring of the Portuguese Border Control System by recasting the internal security forces and services regime and laying down other rules for the rehabilitation of competences and resources of the Foreign and Border Service. To open the debate, Mr. José Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill aims to deal with a situation related to the foreseeable development of the pandemic we are fighting. All the timetable we envision for the transition from the current border control system to another border control system was drawn up in a particular context and pointed out to certain dates that the case law of caution recommends that they be reviewed. Now, this bill—and it could be a bill, of course, of those which will be passed to us by the Council of Ministers, but since we have legislative initiative we have decided to move forward—it is to ensure that the transition is made in a quiet and undisturbed manner in any of its various ways. A television station, news channel, has in these days and hours highlighted as aberration and strange appearance that are under way processes that tend to improve the careers of the current SEF employees ( Service of Foreigners and Borders), but the truth is that, as Mr. Minister in Valongo explained yesterday, these processes have long been triggered, were the object of green light by the Ministry of Finance at the end of 2020 and are now at the time of being treated as they are. They are normal, ordinary forms of respect for the right to career...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u47	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u48	...which is one of the components of the peaceful transition that we imagine. This is therefore the aim of our initiative, which we hope will be extended or at least the consensus possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u49	Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we are debating today is the cherry at the top of the cake of insanity and the irresponsibility with which the government has launched in the process of extinction of the Foreign and Border Service. The decision to extinguish the SEF was a flight forward to the difficulties in which the Government was involved because it had responded late and bad hours to the evidence of a heinous crime committed by elements and in the SEF facilities. The Government may repeat until the exhaustion that the decision to extinguish the SEF was already in place, but the time when that decision was taken, as well as the obstinate and hasty mode as it was put into practice, reveal that it was a flight that intended to be forward but that it was, after all, not at all. It wasn't for lack of warning. When the amendment to the Internal Security Act was adopted here to extinguish the SEF, I recall the PCP's declaration of vote, and I quote: « The option to terminate the SEF and distribute its police functions by the Judicial Police, the PSP ( Public Security Police ) and the GNR ( Republican National Guard ), with the consequent distribution of its elements by security forces with a very different nature, assignments and statutes, will certainly not be free of problems. To date, the following criteria are not known in this complex operation, nor the time and manner of processing. This undefined situation, which will certainly be prolonged over time, will necessarily imply a situation of instability that is not desirable and that it is likely to create difficulties in the area of internal security that could well be avoided. Do not keep on seeking. ” It didn't take much time to be right. The pretext of the pandemic to delay the extinction of the SEF is a pretext like any other. It could be the approach to Christmas or climate change. What happens is that since the government doesn't know where to go, the PS proposes to push its belly for another six months. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u51	And yet in administrative matters no one can handle anything with the SEF. It is a paralysed institution, with all the consequences that this implies for citizens who need to resolve unadjustably problems related to their stay in Portugal. It would be good for the government, instead of trying to understand how the SEF should be extinguished, to worry about creating conditions so that it could work. [[PCP, CDS-PP and PSD Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u52	For an intervention, Mr André Coelho Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would say that by the end of the legislature we could not have better examples of what has been the governance of the Socialist Party: an example of irresponsibility,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u54	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u55	... an example of insanity and, worse than that, an example that you don't know what you're doing,... [[PSD applause.]] ... because they passed legislation not being aware of what it meant. But more: it is played — yes, it is cherry at the top of the cake — by a minister of internal disorientation, which is a good demonstration of how this government is in this and other cases. [[PSD applause.]] Even for the courage, the courage you had to blame for the pandemic... look at the pandemic! ... I mean, the government has passed the legislation in the middle of the pandemic and now comes to hide in the pandemic, which has a back of the size of this Parliament, to pass the holiday period lei for six months. There is no justification for this! The Socialist Party and the Government did what they didn't know they were doing, did so without knowing what they were doing, and now they have no courage to take the mistake. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] What this means is that the time that we are now proposing that we approve of increasing the holiday lei gives time for those who govern to realize the nonsense that it has made and gives mainly time for those who are coming to rule to reverse this whole process. [[PSD applause.]] And what the PSD here has to say, in line with what it has defended, is that in a future government where the PSD will have responsibilities, this legislation will be repealed, this process will be reversed as we have always proposed. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u56	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying that perhaps because we are in the legislature, this is probably one of my last interventions in this plenary session and - it seems to me that it is a bit strange indeed and even something exotic - and you will see why: this diploma that the Socialist Party brings here today and that Mr José Magalhães has presented, is a complete absurd. It's absurd! It's something that makes no sense at all, coming from where it comes from. Why? Because, effectively — we said it from the beginning and it was said here today with great clarity — this extinction of the SEF did not arise by chance, because there was something vague in the Government Programme and this extinction of the SEF only appears as a clear thing to answer to a name that unfortunately many of us used to quote by color, Igor Homeniuk, Ukrainian citizen barbarously murdered at Lisbon airport. From then on, as the Government, particularly the Minister of Internal Administration, mismanaged the file, did not respond to the situation, did not do what he had to do and was incompetent, what is the outcome? The exit is the usual escape forward. What do you do about it? Turn off the SEF! And for a long time they wanted to extinguish the SEF without even bringing the law to the Assembly. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u58	And it was the CDS who got hit and used a power schedule, as Mr. Deputies recalls, to force the law to come to Parliament and then the PS made a tandem with the Left Block and there came with the new law and extinguished the SEF. From there it is chaos, because it is a mistake to completely separate immigration issues from the supervisory skills that the SEF currently has and because they will transfer everything to a new entity that does not exist,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u59	But it will exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u60	...it doesn't work and so far it's not at all prepared. So all of this is nonsense. Perhaps it is one of the most serious mistakes of this Parliament and of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u61	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u62	The government failed, the PS failed and Minister Eduardo Cabrita, that then failed to succeed one! That didn't hit one! Now, as it has been said, and well, you did all this in the middle of the pandemic, even in the state of emergency they were going to put an end to the SEF and now it can't be because we're in the pandemic. [[Exactly!]] [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u63	Now that there's no state of emergency... there's no logic. It's an absolute nonsense! What makes all this intervention exotic is something very simple: said this, how do I vote? Please, obviously...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u64	You have to finish, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u65	Who, like us, has always defended that there should not be extinction of the SEF, wants to create with this law the opportunity for a future government and a future majority to end this law and keep the SEF in office. This is our hope and therefore, despite criticism, we will obviously vote in favour. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u66	For an intervention, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by undoing some myths that continue to be presented on this subject. The reorganization of the Foreign and Border Service was necessary to ensure that foreign people in Portugal have a public service that meets them, under conditions of equality and dignity, as are all other citizens living in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u69	This was necessary, and it was essential to do so and so from the outset, we defended this reorganization, but we defended it with the creation of another body or institution that would care for foreign people, ensuring this right to be treated with rights, a service that was not discriminatory and that respects human rights, dignity, that would not discriminate, and with officials trained in migration law, in order to be able to meet the specificities of foreign people, because foreign people live in Portugal, are part of our national community and deserve equality — no less or less, equal rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u70	Look at the beautiful service you've got!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u71	This is the motto, this is what this service should do. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u72	However, with the reorganization and creation of this agency, we need to ensure that foreign people living in Portugal have their rights guaranteed, i.e. that the limbo in which they are found is not perpetuated for seven or eight years, as is currently the case. Therefore, we need to have fast public services, which guarantee the regularization of foreign people in Portugal and respond to their needs. It must therefore be ensured that this happens in this time frame, while this deadline is extended for the establishment of this agency for migration and asylum and also for support services in border areas. There is another dimension that also needs to be taken into account, which is the instability in which people working in the Foreign and Border Service face the indefinition of the transfer of competences to GNR and to PSP. [[Mr Protests the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] Would you mind letting me finish, please? Oh, my God! As I was saying, the transfer of skills to GNR, PSP and other security forces. It is therefore necessary to ensure that these workers are not kept in a situation of instability.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u73	And why? Oh, my God! Because of you!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u74	Therefore, we will make this extension possible, but drawing attention to the need for foreign people to have their regularized situation, strengthening the Foreign and Border Service as it now works, and a response to workers and workers is also needed, so that they do not maintain themselves in this situation of instability. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u75	It is the time of Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : of the 2 minutes I have at my disposal, it is enough - the first to stress that this is the last act of this opera bonfire in which the process of extinction of the SEF was transformed, a process to stop in a hurry, without opinions, without consultation with the workers, without consultation with the unions, and which only came to this House because a party demanded it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u77	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u78	And the shit goes on. Only in this way is it justified that a law which came into force 15 days ago already needs a four-month change in time, at the back of such a pandemic, which has wide backs and which should be taken advantage of, that is, since it has such wide backs, to allow the reversal of this absolutely wrong decision of this government. The minute I'm left is probably the last liberal minute I'll have in this house. [[Congrats and laughter from PS Members.]] I would therefore like to take this opportunity to remind all of you that today three important ephemerals are celebrated for the liberals: it is the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, it is the National Day of the Entrepreneur and spends 46 years on 25 November. [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH applause.]] And it's sad, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to take some of the time I have left to be the Member who, in this House, recalls a date without which on 25 April it would not have resulted in the democracy we have today, would have resulted in a different dictatorship of signal. Therefore, in the name of these values of freedom, in the name of all those who no longer remember what that day meant, here is our honor. I couldn't wait for a better theme to probably dedicate the last liberal minute I'll have in this house. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u79	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have here today is very clear: the government wanted to punish and dismantle the SEF for a fact that had happened, of a criminal nature. Do it in full pandemic, do it in an emergency state and now, now that we need to control borders and we need the SEF, « alas, my God, the SEF and the reform that go back, come there to help us control and help solve the mess we have generated here, in this Parliament ». This was basically what the Socialist Party told us today, i.e., "I apologize to the country for the mess I've generated and now we're going to ask the SEF to come back and help us temporarily to control the borders due to the pandemic. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is the biggest legislative precipitation they had for being in the hands of the Left Block, which ended up turning their backs on the budgetary procedure and yet to give them this year-end gift to dismantle the SEF.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u81	It was necessary!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u82	He lives on what he owes! It gave an agency that does not exist, in an SEF that no longer exists, in total abandonment of border control, and now what they want is to ask the people of the SEF again: « Work there for two months, that we will end up with you here some time». That's what they want to do!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u83	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u84	But also, Mr President, that we have elections at the door, because so the Portuguese know very well what they can vote on in the Socialist Party: in the end of security, in the destruction of internal security and in a total opening of doors, saying that whoever wants to come, come do whatever they want and benefit from the Portuguese state.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u85	Don't! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u86	There was no definition in this law anymore. Now, it's absolute chaos. Officials, inspectors, everyone, they don't all know what's going to happen and that's due to the wonder of the PS government, in alliance with the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u87	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u88	This is the legal framework we have right now. But this process has an advantage and will therefore make this proposal of the Socialist Party viable.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u89	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u90	And you will make it possible, Mr. Member, not for the fifth wave, not for the sixth, not for the seventh, not for the eighth, but because we will finally have the opportunity, after elections and if God wills—that He is great! — that the majority are on the right and not on the left, I repeat, we will have the opportunity—and here is the solemn promise—to send to the history box the proposal of the Socialist Party and the Left Block and to make the SEF reborn of ashes, because Portugal needs a strong SEF, needs to control borders and needs a country that is equal between the equal in the European Union and not a poor relative, with open arms for all kinds of migration.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u91	It would be a miracle!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u92	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this proposal, the Socialist Party finally recognizes that it has done an accelerated process, in what should be an in-depth debate, around the restructuring of the SEF. In addition, in July 2021, we discussed here with the Government, in general, and there was a commitment in this House to make a process, in particular, that it should be properly discussed, involving professionals and that this transition should be made as appropriate as possible. Unfortunately, that is not what we checked in the process in the specialty. The opinions were ignored, there was no effective dialogue with the professionals and now the COVID-19 serves to justify what, of course, would be a mistake on the part of the government, by the way it did. That is to say, we well know that if what was to be implemented in this House had been approved on 11 January, this would be carried out without regulation of border control, in particular as regards the SEF, as regards the PSP and as regards the GNR itself, and hence resulted in a legal vacuum. Therefore, in fact, these six months consolidate an opportunity for the various parties, including, to reinforce this matter in what their electoral programmes are going to be, that is, in fact, the way that should be made widely in specialty and that, on our part, we regret that it has not been done, in particular with regard to, for example, the concerns and rights of workers, and I remember, including what was the declaration of vote of the NAP made at the end of the vote on this proposal. It is that we are faced with a matter of the greatest importance to our country, a matter that has to do with migrant people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u94	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u95	... refugees, asylum seekers and who, of course, in the context of the humanitarian crisis we live in, of the crisis of solidarity we live in, also need public policies that are made with due caution and with due in-depth debate, which has not happened. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u96	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that if there were any doubts about the mistake that represented the decision to extinguish the SEF, these doubts would be literally dissipated today with the presentation of this legislative initiative by the Socialist Party. The Government preferred to extinguish the SEF instead of providing technical and human resources to exercise its responsibilities and competences. And the result is in sight: it is chaos with regard to the regularization of foreign people. And now, at the outbreak of the pandemic, the PS wants to suspend the diploma which, in fact, entered into force only 15 days ago, intends to postpone the resolution of the problem and, in the meantime, chaos continues. It's the PS handing over, but the problem is not solved with this bill. The resolution of the problem is, let us say, frozen. Let us hope, at least, that this process will serve the Government and the Socialist Party to see how serious it can be to legislate quickly and try to solve the problem with the extinction of services, rather than providing the necessary technical and human resources so that they can respond to their duties, which they are competent or are given by law. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u98	We have thus reached the end of the debate. I would ask the services to present us with the results of the deliberation quorum so that we can start the votes. There are 202 registered Members, so we have quorum to carry out the votes, which we will immediately begin. We begin by voting, in general, the Bill No. 993 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — Increases the period of absence justified by the death of a descendant of 1. the degree in the straight or equal line ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PEN, PEN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] The initiative is down to 10. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 767 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the parental mourning regime and recognize the right to mourning in case of gestational loss. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 926 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Change the mourning failure regime by making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] This project also drops to 10. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No. 927 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extends the period of grounds for failure due to the death of a spouse, relative or relative ( 10th amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 949 / XIV / 3. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — by the extension of the period of absences justified by the death of a spouse, relative or relative or gestational loss ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] This diploma also falls to 10. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 1018 / XIV / 3. a ( PSD ) — Extension of the period of deficiencies justified by the death of a child for 20 days. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PCP and ENP abstentions.]] This diploma also falls to 10. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 1023 / XIV / 3. a ( PCP ) — Extended days of fault due to the death of descendants 1. the degree of the line straight, spouse, ascending, relatives or related (thirteenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 1024 / XIV / 3. a (IL) — Alter the scheme of errors justified by the death of a descendant. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD, PCP and ENP.]] This diploma also falls to 10. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 1025 / XIV / 3. a (CH) — Increases the mourning days provided for in the Labour Code and recognizes the right to mourning in case of gestational loss. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the NAP, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP and the ENP.]] This diploma also falls to 10. the Commission. We are nearing the end, but we have not finished this session yet. The Secretary of Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha will give us some information and we will have to make some votes. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall take note of several opinions of the 14. the Commission. At the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Juiz do Trabalo da Maia — Judge 1, Case No 4383 / 20.8T8MAI, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira ( PSD ) to testify in writing as a witness.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u100	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Aveiro, Judge of Criminal Instruction of Santa Maria da Feira — Judge 2, Inquiry No 700 / 17.6GDVFR, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr João Oliveira ( PCP ) to testify in writing as a witness.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u102	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Juiz do Trabalo da Maia — Juiz 1, Case No 4383 / 20.8T8MAI, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Joaquim Barreto ( PS ) to testify in writing as a witness.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u104	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Juiz Local Criminal de Lisboa — Juiz 14, Case No 9862 / 18.4T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Fernando Negro ( PSD ) to testify in writing as a witness.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u106	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office — Procurator's Office of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Porto, DIAP, Section de Santo Tirso, NIUPC 566 / 20.9T9STS, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Member Inês de Sousa Real ( PAN ) to present his testimony as a witness.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u108	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa — Judge of Criminal Instruction of Lisbon, Judge 5, Inquiry No 7233 / 20.1T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mrs Cristina Rodrigues ( Nsc. ) , within the scope of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u110	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out that the Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP, Cláudia André and Alexandre Poço of the PSD followed this session by videoconferencing because they are in prophylactic isolation. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u112	Thank you, Secretary. The agenda for tomorrow's session will be confirmed at the Leaders' Conference, but there are votes on it, only and basically.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u113	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u114	Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u115	Mr President, it was to inform, for quorum purposes, that I am present, despite the system to announce my failure.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u116	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. I see Mr. João Paulo Correia signaling the Bureau. Is it because of the same problem?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u117	Mr President, yes, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-25.u118	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. I'm asking the ladies. Members who have not been able to register their names electronically so that their presence for quorum purposes can be recorded. Deputies Carlos Pereira, from PS, André Neves, António Maló de Abreu, Carla Barros, Carlos Peixoto, Duarte Marques, Joana Barata Lopes, Pedro Roque and Ricardo Baptista Leite, from PSD, and Ricardo Vicente, from BE. Be registered, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. We need to get a point called « for the same purpose», but it will not be today. Tomorrow, we have a plenary session at 10 a.m. The next item is the vote, unless there is any last-minute amendment, which is not foreseeable. Thank you very much to everyone and until tomorrow. [[It was 16 hours and 40 minutes.]]
