ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] Before we start the debate, I ask Secretary Nelson Peralta to do the favor of reading the various information he has to give to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. I refer to Bill Nos 99 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 100 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and Bills Nos 853 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 854 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 855 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 13. the Commission. Resolution Nos 1281 / XIV / 2 were also included in the Bureau. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1292 / XVI / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1293 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR), 1294 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 1295 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 1296 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 1297 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 1298 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us therefore begin the agenda with the discussion of draft resolution No 1205 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government submit to the Assembly of the Republic the announced restructuring of the Foreign and Border Service ( SEF ). To open the debate, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing by to sit down. You have the floor, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u4	Mr President, Minister of the Internal Administration — whose presence I particularly welcome, which shows, if any, the relevance of the subject we are going to discuss today — Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and others. Members: The CDS-PP has used the legislative agenda, the last one we have available in this Legislative Session to discuss this matter, since we consider it of the greatest importance and since we consider it absolutely extraordinary that, after a few months of discussing this matter, the Government has not, in particular, taken up such an obvious thing as the fact that this reform has to come to Parliament. This is the essential point. Let us start by referring to facts which obviously have a political reading, and then we will draw a conclusion, which will be political, but also in some way legal. I'm starting with the facts. At the height of criticism to the Government regarding the performance of the Minister of Internal Administration in the sad case of the murder of Ukrainian citizen Ihor Homeniuk — a name which, unfortunately, we used to say color for the worst possible reasons — the Minister himself made an announcement, which the SEF would finish. That is to say, it seems to us that this has been once again the subject of what is often called an "advertising policy". If there is a problem, if we are under criticism, if we are under fire, how do we get out of this situation? It's simple: we make an ad saying the SEF will end.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u6	At the time, the Minister referred to the Government Programme. Secondly, the Government Programme says that the organic separation between police and administrative functions should be established. This is what the Government Programme says, it says no more than this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, this is all that the Government Programme says.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u8	The Government Programme does not speak in extinction, either in disintegration or in passage to other forces. Not at all! The idea there is this and not more than this. In our opinion — and now we are turning to political reading on this issue — the extinction of the SEF and its breakdown is a mistake. But that is our opinion and it does not even have to be shared by all the benches. It is only our opinion and I would like to leave it here, in fact, if I did not say what our opinion on the matter is. Why is that a mistake? From the start, with this breakdown, we lost experience and acquired skills. If any body, in recent decades, has dealt well with the most diverse issues — the competence with which it has been treated internationally — it was the SEF. And, a short time ago, Mr. Minister praised his performance. Therefore, to end an organism that works and has experience and competences is objectively a mistake. More: it is a mistake because the new model is not parallel in the best European systems, in the systems that work best in Europe. The systems in Europe for border control, entry control and displacement of foreigners and external border protection are normally based on a single entity. This is the case in most countries. Dispersion by three or four entities or by three or four points of contact will create confusion in our relationship with other partners, particularly with European partners, and will obviously raise doubts about our position and our credibility as regards the functioning of the Schengen system. On the other hand, if we do well, and the Minister will say so, since he has had an interest in coming to this debate, I believe that his announcement of the extinction of the SEF was in January, i.e. a few months ago. What does it mean to have spent those months? It means we're wasting time. What was supposed to have been done? The SEF needed to have been modernised, improved and endowed with means and skills, as well as the investment needed in technological and human resources to be more efficient. And so far, we are all waiting for a change, but it's been a few months and nobody knows the change. Last fact: the resolution of the Council of Ministers. The resolution of the Council of Ministers itself did not create anything. What situation are we in today? To this day, where are we? Those in the field who are dealing with these matters—Minister, be kind of lying to me if I am wrong—is the SEF and only the SEF, taking out the skills of other forces that existed before. In several statements, the Minister insists on giving the idea that the SEF was extinct. As for your foreign and asylum service, it does not exist, it has not been created...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u10	...and, therefore, we've lived there. I don't know how long a mistake. This is the last of the relevant facts in relation to the history of this matter. On the other hand, and returning to the political issue, in our view, it would be a mistake to end an institution like this using, almost as a pretext, a horrible crime like what happened. It is that the existence of crimes is not the basis for the end of the institution, it is the basis for the guilty to be judged and convicted—and justice has done and is doing its job well—and for the institution to be removed from those who have these procedures and have clear rules so that this does not happen again. I repeat, this is no basis for ending the institution. There is no institution that survives this criterion, because in any institution, especially because they are composed of men, such behaviors and crimes can happen. I would say that, following this criterion and this reasoning, on the limit, we ended up with the government! This is neither acceptable nor reasonable, as it is obvious. However, we would like to say a few more things that are central to this debate that has been convened by us and that has the presence of the government. In fact, I hope that your presence, Minister, will mean that you will take the opportunity we have given you, which you have not done so far, and assume that this matter will be discussed by Parliament. I have seen a lot of indignation—and it comes from the most varied political sectors, not only from my own — about democracy and its functioning, but above all about the lack of it, which is confused, using an expression of a friend who has already been popularized, with a « huge scream».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u11	Greetings! They're missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u12	It shocks me a bit, and I am puzzled about it, that the government has not assumed from the first hour that this matter would come to Parliament. You didn't take it! And you have been asked more than once by several Members. We asked the Minister of Internal Administration, who is here today, and we asked the Prime Minister, but we never heard the simple answer we expected: "Of course, this matter will go to Parliament! We are still in time to hear that answer, and it may be today. It would be a scandal if we didn't ask. Perhaps, we do not recognize it in relation to each other, and I am not going to make judgments on it, but we all complain about democracy. And I'm asking, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what democracy is that a reform of the security forces — this reform always means moving with the security forces because it shuts down a security service, distributing it by existing security forces — would it not come to Parliament? Not at all! By nature, this is the matter of parliaments and that is why, constitutionally, it is the matter of absolute reservation of the Assembly of the Republic, as Prof. Jorge Miranda said, in a very clear opinion, and as a former Minister of the Internal Administration of a Government of the Socialist Party, Rui Pereira, said in another equally sustained and clear opinion. What is extraordinary is that, at the end of a few months, I no longer know how long after the Council of Ministers' resolution was adopted, without the diplomas appearing and without anything being done or said, we continue without knowing — and the government has not assumed it to date — a material law will be presented and discussed here. That is the subject of our debate today. And I'm telling you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the Minister will finally give his arm to twist and assume that this matter has to come to Parliament and that it would be a mistake not to do so. I hope so well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that all banks, regardless of our differences - and we have many, either in immigration policy or in operation of the SEF, or in many other matters, but that is not at stake - participate in the discussion of this reform not from a single vision, hidden so far to Parliament, but from a plural view and with the contribution of all. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u13	Mr President, the Bureau records three entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u14	Mr. President, one more two.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u15	Two more?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u16	No, Mr. President, one more two.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u17	Ah, one more two! I don't know what it reminds me of, but something does! Open... [[CDS-PP laughter.]] You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mr José Magalhães, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u18	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Telmo Correia, I think you will take a hand full of smoke from here. It's better to lower expectations. The honourable Member wanted a fire to give encouragement to those who have already announced that they will strike at that sensitive moment when tourists will begin to arrive, who will be "infernalized" to have a smell of something typical Portuguese besides the sardine. It's the worst time! And the PP, which was, in ancient times, an orderly party, so that he even saw his congress surrounded in the port, now puts himself next to a Patuleia of this kind, with all the calm...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u19	Duma Patulea? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u20	Yes, a Patuleia of this kind, perfectly foolish, indeed irresponsible on the part of those who say that "no, it is not our fault, it is the Minister's fault, exclusively the Minister's fault". It was said this morning. Obviously, only in a country of legs to air would it be that way. So right-wingers are now supporters of kamikaze actions. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Secondly, Mr President, at the same time as that friend of yours went to the so-called "convention of normalization of the Arrival" saying that we are walking in the democracy of screaming, that this is very bad, etc. etc. Mr President, the honourable Member has tried here to try to repeat a certain scream and the mantra that they have been repeating for months: the Minister is beheading himself! He's beheading himself a minister! He's beheading himself a minister! conversation finished, everything is solved, etc. etc. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Or rather, this is the democracy of the scourge, which Mr Ventura spoke of yesterday at such a 'convention of normalization'. The « democracy of the crash », so. Of course: Those who threaten to be beaten risk getting caught up with it too, which is perfectly fair, as one understands. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, the question that is put to you, of course, is the following: why do you think that the only form of border control exists today? Just mystifying, because it is not made by the SEF only, as you know. In other words, it is made by conjugation of a series of structures, including Frontex, Coast Guard, Maritime Police and GNR ( Republican National Guard) in part of the maritime surveillance,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u21	You don't know what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u22	... the Judicial Police ( PJ ), the Labour Conditions Authority, etc. etc. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The gentlemen. You didn't know about this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u23	You just don't know what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u24	Right now, I'm looking at the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I see you're in a hilarious mood! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u25	I ask you to let the honourable Member conclude your reasoning, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u26	Finally, in relation to the fundamental issue, if the Government were to bring forward a bill tomorrow, your position would be to lead it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u27	It's democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u28	They're for real estate. Is this it or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u29	It's democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u30	Therefore, my question is whether or not it is recognized that the organic structure of the SEF has been governed by legal decrees, including the last, which is in force, the Decree-Law No 240/2012, approved at the time when the Prime Minister was Dr. Passos Coelho, in which the Deputy Prime Minister was Dr. Paulo Portas, in which the Minister of Internal Administration was Dr. Miguel Macedo, and was already in force Article 164 ( u ). the Constitution and no one has seen this a violation of the Constitution. [[CDS-PP protests.]] So why does this government not have the right to do by decree what is in force by decree? And the Assembly will then be able to discuss the decree, if understood, through parliamentary appreciation. It's perfectly democratic. Would you like me to read you other articles? I don't have time, but I could do it because, since 1986, when Eurico de Melo was a minister, that this happens. Next, during the boom of the 1990s, it was also by decree-law when Fernando Gomes was minister. Then it was again by decree-law and always by decree-law. You deny this, Mr. Deputy. That's the point. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u31	To reply, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u32	Mr President, Mr. José Magalhães, thank you for your kind question. I would start by saying that if the Government brings this matter to the House, and I hope that the Minister will tell us today whether it will do so, we will vote accordingly, according to our conscience. The honourable Member has recently been accused of proposing things that are not democratic. I think it's an injustice that they've done to you, I think it's an exaggeration of some of those criticisms that they've made to you, but, Mr President, it doesn't contribute to that idea. In other words, the parties that agree will vote in favour and those who disagree will vote against — nothing more normal in terms of democracy. What are you suggesting? Are you suggesting that if the Government makes a proposal, we will have to vote in favour even if we do not agree with it? Oh, my God! Is that your idea? Oh, my God! The honourable Member may accuse me of some sort of Patuleia, but I accuse him of returning to his origins and on his way to the Supreme Soviet. Only in these circumstances can we justify this. [[PS protests.]] Well, I did not deceive myself: I used the expression « return to its origins». I don't know if you heard, sir. Then, Mr President, you use agitprop tactics here, which are of this field's own and which are very obvious. For example, there's a strike... in fact, if there's someone who has even written things and said about specific strikes, the strikes worked, it's me, I have no doubt about it. The strike is not even from the main union. But, Mr President, I didn't say anything about a strike, I didn't mention a strike, I didn't tell you if you were right, if you were wrong. Don't make it up, sir! Don't make it up! I wasn't at that convention either, nor at any other event this morning. This morning, I didn't talk about anything, so I don't owe myself things that I didn't say, Mr. Do not use this as an argument, because that is not what is at stake. And you know, as I know — answering your question — that the internal organic amendments of the SEF have always been made by decree-law. Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u33	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u34	Another different thing is to move in the structure of security forces and services. Extinguishing a security service that has constitutional framework and, on the other hand, assigning the PSP (PSC) and the GNR skills and means that they have not so far is a global mix in the law of security forces and services. Therefore, this is an absolute reserve matter of the Assembly. Mr Member, but who am I, modest Parliamentary of this House, if we have the father of the Constitution to say unequivocally that this matter is an absolute reservation of the Assembly and if we have your former Minister and specialist in these matters, Rui Pereira, to say the same? Oh, my God! Who am I? Oh, my God! What I hope for today is that you and the Socialist Party agree with us and, above all, do not invent things. I didn't say anything radical, nor did I ask anyone's head yet. [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] I haven't asked anybody's head yet. I have only asked the Government and the Minister of Internal Administration for a very simple one: tell us, black and white, that this matter and this reform come to Parliament. That's what I want. And I ask the parties present here, because I shall vote on my draft resolution, whether or not they understand the content of the initiative, which recommends that the Government submit to the Assembly of the Republic the restructuring of the Foreign and Border Service — which alludes to the resolution of the Council of Ministers — in the form of a proposal for a material law. In this regard, I have made an effort, deliberately, and, Mr President, to do this justice, not to get into controversy. I did not argue about the amendments to the immigration law, I did not argue about the competences of the SEF, I sought to generate the democratic consensus that this issue must come to Parliament. Do me this justice for once in your life, Mr. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u35	Let's move on to the second block of questions. You have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Telmo Correia, I welcome and greet the CDS, which in good time brings the restructuring of the SEF to this House. The extinction of a security forces and services body is obviously a matter that must be decided on in this House. And the fact that the Government wants to lead the process outside Parliament says a lot about the concept of PS democracy. In a healthy liberal democracy it is essential to counter excessive or hegemonic powers. That is why brake and counterweight systems are adopted. But the PS doesn't like brakes and ignores counterweights. Let us ask ourselves what are the real motivations behind the extinction of the SEF. Could the problems identified in its operation — this year, particularly shocking — be solved only by extinguishing the body? Where's the diagnosis? Where is the debate? Where are the alternatives? Nobody knows. A decision of these, taken at the forefront of Parliament, can only be a desperate attempt to save the skin of Minister Eduardo Cabrite. That is to say, a matter of this importance is not treated as a matter of state, but as a gesture of damage control. All this aside from Parliament. This is not a single case, this is the way in which the government works. It is a government that does not comply with the recommendations of the Assembly of the Republic, does not regulate the laws within the due time limits, does not comply with the State budget and avoids the questions put by Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u37	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u38	Mr Telmo Correia, the clarification I would like to ask is whether the CDS does not agree that the Government of the Socialist Party, both eliminating the brakes and ignoring the counterweights, is undermining the foundations of liberal democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u39	You have the floor to ask for clarifications by Mr Carlos Peixoto of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u40	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members, Mr Telmo Correia, may rest: the PSD today says what I said yesterday, i.e. that this issue should be discussed and voted on in Parliament. So we understand about this. But what I think this debate is going to reveal, after this initial introduction - and do not hurt me by the force of words, but we are talking about politics, we are not personalizing - is that the country has a Minister of Internal Administration who is politically unreputable...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u41	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u42	...and has a Prime Minister who is politically perverse. I'm sorry about that. I'm saying this for a reason. Mr Minister, to date, he has already gone into so many bullshits, but the truth is that nothing — nothing! - no one's screwing him up. Well Mr Telmo Correia may raise his voice here, all the opposition may well point batteries to the Minister against his failures and his irresponsibility, but, look, it is to the side where the Prime Minister sleeps better. It is even for the part where he sleeps better, because while the country makes the Minister of Internal Administration a sort of boxing bag, the Prime Minister saves his skin, shakes the water from the hood. And this is the perverseness of Dr. António Costa, of the Prime Minister, because it doesn't matter anything that anyone is being immolated next to him, it doesn't matter anything, what matters is that it's not himself. Mr. Minister is transformed into a martyr — a martyr! And with this, Mr. Prime Minister is passing by and passing through the raindrops: beginning with the dismantling of the SEF, passing through the SIRESP file ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal ), through the iron arm with the firefighters, by the flammable goggles, in the case of the airport, by the civil requirement in Zmar, by the celebrations of Sporting. [[Laughter of PCP Member Antonio Filipe.]] This impressive summary of political inabilities at nothing caused Mr. Minister to tremble. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister always keeps Mr. Minister standing. Minister, the cases are so many and so many that the fault of all this is no longer yours, believe it is not yours. Maybe he's the biggest victim! It is no longer your fault, it is Mr Prime Minister, who says that the Minister is excellent and that he understands to keep him in office. [[PSD applause.]] We have already come to the point where we have to answer politically about everything that happened is the Prime Minister, he is the leader of the government, because I think that Mr. Minister is already mistaken with so many failures. Mr Minister, the folder is difficult and has had the chance of the Távoras, it is true, but things are what they are — they are what they are! And, therefore, as Minister, you still have to explain something here. In terms of public safety and health, I believe that two weights and two measures are always used. Notice: the last day of the Portuguese football championship did not have the public, but next weekend the League of European Champions will have the public; cultural shows have limited lotion, but the Rally of Portugal had classifications with immense people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u43	What does that have to do with internal security?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u44	It has everything to do with internal security! Teachers and assistants, linked to education, have vaccination at a good rate, but police, GNR and other security forces have barely exceeded 50%. Look, at the Constitutional Court everything is vaccinated, even people who do not have contact with the public, but professionals who work in supermarket and hypermarket boxes, who have constant rows of people to attend, are completely ignored by the government. This has to do with internal security! [[PSD applause.]] Mr Telmo Correia, the question is this: do you not think the government should look at these issues of sovereignty, internal security, with a different look, with a different attention and, in particular, with a much more clear responsibility than the one it has had so far? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u45	To reply, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by replying in reverse order to the questions that have been put to me, starting with Mr Carlos Peixato. Mr. Deputies, I share the criticism you have made. I'm afraid I've done them many times. Until the list of cases, still recently, in debate with Mr Prime Minister, we had occasion to mention and reproduce. As I have already said, and I repeat, it is clear that, with regard to Minister Eduardo Cabrite, there is no "Odemira" at all. On the other hand, I have also told the Minister that, for the first time, when the President of the Republic, in some way, showed him the street door, he had to see precisely the case of the SEF, it would have been a good idea to have left because, if he had left at that time, he would have saved himself and have saved us all a lot of things. This is my indisputable opinion on this matter. But the Minister knows and, as he is here, let us hope that at least he will tell us something useful today. So this is my point and you will understand the honourable Member who wants to be focused on this matter today and do not make this a debate on how many cases of internal administration I do not know, because if we do not then go to the essential issue, which is the question of the SEF and its restructuring and our question, addressed to all the banks, whether or not this should come to Parliament. This is what I want to focus on today, and of course I agree, what we have in mind is known for what it tells us. I believe that what we are saying today is consistent with what we have said before, but it is also important to stress that what has been happening, in particular the protests and the unequivocal opinions of the constitutionalists, has forced the government, including through our initiative, to react to this issue by the CDS. That is why the government is here today. This shows more and more that we were right about this. Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, I welcome you, thanking you for your question. I do not know whether the honourable Member has already noticed the extraordinary things that are happening in this Parliament: we have heard Mr José Magalhães of the Socialist Party outraged in his previous speech. Indignant about what? Like a strike.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u47	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u48	The Socialist Party and Mr. José Magalhães said: "How is it possible to strike? Oh, my God! What a scandal! » The Socialist Party! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u49	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u50	We, in a broad sense, with differences, obviously, are liberals, but it is extraordinary that whoever was indignant with the strike was the Socialist Party. And the leader also heard that the moment of applause of the Socialist Party's bench was the one in which Mr. José Magalhães said who comes here to criticize, and so, it strikes. It was the only moment of enthusiasm! The only moment of true enthusiasm!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u51	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u52	Mr. Deputies, I was almost to ask how many they were!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u53	Let us have a serious debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u54	I was almost there to ask how many they were! I resisted, but I was almost there. But, soon, it is as it is, Mr. Deputies. In fact, it is extraordinary how a party that does not have an absolute majority, which has depended on parliamentary agreements, whether signed or not, and extraparliamentary with other political forces on its left to govern, affords itself the luxury of exercising this kind of arrogance — the type of arrogance of those who say: "We send the diploma. That's all they needed to vote against! So we don't even send! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u55	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u56	They say: "As you can pass by the head to vote against, the best thing is not to send the diploma! Do not keep on seeking. ” It is clear that either the diploma comes, or the Minister assumes that it comes, or, if it does not come, there will obviously be a parliamentary assessment...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u57	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u58	...and, to the limit, there will be a declaration of unconstitutionality. But this is the first step today! And I am glad that we are here to take this first step, because you have not said anything at the end of these months so far. There's a feeling that stays. Mr Minister likes rhymes—and I must say that I am not going to the most unpleasant ones, because, in fact, the last thing I would remember was to ask for help from those who can no longer help anyone, so I will not go there only if necessary— so in relation to the rhymes that Mr. Minister likes, I tell him that, in this case, prepotence is resounding with incompetence. That is the point, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo : prepotence rhymes with incompetence! That is why we need to be demanding. So I am glad that we had this initiative. So I am glad that Parliament today, thanks to the initiative of the CDS, will have an opportunity to speak on this issue, which has so far been asked to the Government and on which the Government has never spoken. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u59	For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to say that, in our constitutional framework, the Socialist Party appreciates the central role of the Assembly of the Republic as a voice of all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party respects and promotes a strategy for the internal security and security of citizens based on respect for the framework for the exercise of constitutional powers, of which it does not abdicate, for its political and institutional responsibility. That is why the Socialist Party does not give the right the false idea that the right is concerned with security. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u61	Is that the PS spokesman? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u62	The Government of the Socialist Party has, in fact, the record which we must remember and which will be reminded of again. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular Mr Telmo Correia — whom I thank for the opportunity he has given the Government to once again be here explaining the coherence of its internal security policy — that Portugal is one of the safest countries in the world, the third most secure country in the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that in 2020, in a pandemic context, when Portugal was subject to particularly restrictive measures in the context of successive state of emergency declarations which the Assembly of the Republic approved, unlike several other European countries, general crime decreased 11 % and violent and serious crime decreased 13 % in the best result since this registration system existed, that is, 32 years ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In addition, it has been established in the first four months of 2021, which also point to a decline of about 15 % of crime participations in general. Even in this framework, the Government of the Socialist Party has left no one behind. We did not cease to assume our responsibilities, in a humanist vision that was recognized by Cardinal Tolentino de Mendonça on 10 June, and by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, which was revealed in the way we, in time of pandemic, attributed rights to migrants who, in Portugal, seek space to improve their lives. More than 200 000 foreign citizens have benefited from this policy, which has adopted an allocation of rights to foreign citizens. That was the action of the SEF that was recognized and of which we took pride. The Socialist Party, which has this humanist vision of the internal security policy, this humanist vision of the migration policy, also has a strategy of complete transparency that leads it to be linked not to the taste of the CDS agendas or any other bench but mandated by the Portuguese to comply with the Government Programme that the people and the Assembly of the Republic have appointed us to execute. It is this Government Programme that clearly establishes that a very clear organic separation must be made — very clearly, this was the expression used — between police functions and administrative functions for the authorization and documentation of immigrants. We did not announce it in a hurry, about any parliamentary debate or any criminal tragedy that shames us. We announced it in our own time before the 2019 elections, and we have the votes and the bench that supports us to be here and the honourable Member to be there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we do not expect the CDS to be the party mobilised for the implementation of the Government Programme. We deal with this in all transparency in all regular statutory hearings. Here I shall be at the last hearing of this Legislative Session on Wednesday, and here I shall be every time, at the initiative of any bench, we shall be called to the committee. That is why we are here: because we are a government that respects Parliament and defends political scrutiny, but does not abdicate from any of its powers and, above all, from fulfilling the programme by which it has been elected. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There's nothing secret here. There is a programme which has been submitted and voted on in a timely manner. There is a meeting of the Supreme Council of Internal Security which took place in January and preceded meetings with all SEF workers'unions, which established a methodology and timetable which had as deadlines, firstly, the adoption of a resolution of the Council of Ministers adopting policy guidelines and, until the end of the first half, the approval of the organic diploma establishing the new service of foreigners and asylum, with the nature of the general management and not with the nature of the force, the security service, or even a criminal police body, and which establishes the procedures for the transfer of current inspectors of the SEF's career of inspection and supervision to other entities, by the end of the year, with the safeguarding of their career, with the safeguarding of their rights, with respect for the service they have provided to Portugal and Portuguese. That is why we are surprised in this framework that, not wanting to discuss the substance of things, if you want to discuss the constitutional and institutional framework, in particular — what is politically relevant — an alleged intention to do in the hiding places of Parliament. Don't! The government is here! I know we're surprised, Mr. Deputies. The government is here, as it will always be able to understand that this is its duty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On this subject too, when we invoke an opinion from an illustrious constitutionalist who we respect very much — I respect it very much, and I know that you too — would say that, although I do not know the opinion, I am always very careful to comment on newspaper reports, I seem to agree with him entirely. And I can only be, because the regime of the security forces is subject to absolute reserve of competence of the Assembly of the Republic. There is nothing more to stone than reading Article 164 ( u ). that of the Constitution, to which I subscribe. There are, however, some small problems: first, the SEF is not a security force, it is a security service; second, the nature of its staff has characteristics different from those that apply to GNR military or public security police officers. Therefore, the SEF has a different status. I am going to list some differences: subjecting to the general working regime in public functions and not to specific codes; the right to strike, which does not exist in the GNR or the Public Security Police; a specific regime for the exercise of relations with protection; the legal nature of its staff. In addition to the references to multiple organic amendments of the SEF, these amendments made by decree-law, I saw no exaltation of the proposed parliamentary group when, for example, the Government, in 2019, also approved by decree-law the new Organic Law of the Judiciary Police, nor did I see any reference to the amendments to other criminal police bodies, also made by decree-law. What is at stake here is extremely clear: it is to establish an administrative structure which interferes in the determination of asylum policy, in relation to those who in Portugal accept refugees and in the determination, in a humanist manner, of the conditions of access to the right of residence. And from there, migrants are not suspected; they are a full citizen... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and that it must have its administrative procedures dealt with by all of us, by the Institute of Registers and Notary, by social security, by the competent administrative authorities. For this reason, we want to create a general direction which, in these areas, corresponds to the vision that we have in a country that thinks migrants should have rights. Migrants are fundamental to a country that has a demographic crisis and needs foreign citizens—some will be more qualified, others less, but everyone will be well welcomed to work with rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as safety is concerned, I do not know where this surprise has been seen. Not to go any further, because time is not much, it's enough to see what happened next door. Who controlled the land borders in Spain, when they were closed, was the national police. In Ceuta, for example, the control of the maritime border and migration issues was carried out by the Civil Guard, which today is indeed the partner of the GNR in the SIVICC (Integrated Surveillance System, Command and Control) in its Coast Guard functions and in its relationship with the European Coast Guard. GNR saves hundreds of lives, every year, on the Greek islands, as part of its coastal guard function. In fact, I was there with the GNR military, who save refugees and migrants from the risks of the Aegean Sea. The Public Security Police is already in the airports, it has the responsibility of airport security. And the Judiciary Police has powers to investigate crimes of trafficking in human beings and aid to illegal immigration. It is in this framework that we are talking about the essential functions of internal security and therefore we are in this debate without any criticism to fully discuss all the solutions at the political and legal levels and within the framework of the Government's own competences in order to implement its Programme and with a sense of parliamentary responsibility, particularly in a framework of parliamentary assessment, if, and certainly, that figure, this legitimate, constitutional right is exercised. We are also here to do all the recognition to the SEF, which I have already done when SEF workers in difficult times have been on land borders, when SEF workers have contributed to this measure of extraordinary regularization of migrants, when SEF workers have designed the platform that allowed about 100 000 people to automatically renew their residence permit. It was almost 15 000 foreign students who, without needing to go to a public service, which would be closed in time of pandemic, had their residence permit renewed. Therefore, it is absolutely unacceptable and irresponsible to strike which is announced from next Monday by one of the SEF trade unions. This strike is a serious attack on national security! This strike is inadmissible in the context of a disaster, in which it is up to the SEF to verify the health safety conditions, in particular if passengers arriving in Portugal have carried out their COVID-19 tests or not. This strike is attentive to the expectation of recovery from the national economy. It is a very serious situation that is against our responsibility — as a country with the European Presidency in this semester — to monitor and monitor the external borders of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, the Council of Ministers has decided to make a civil request for workers in the area of inspection and supervision of the SEF who perform functions at airports, whether by the Regional Government of Madeira or by the generality of tourist areas. Our concern is primarily about national security and safeguarding the obligations of the Portuguese State, which must be exercised and justified. We're on the right track. The reform we want to make is in the Government's programme and, either in its police dimension or in its size of monitoring the situation of migrants, it is even more necessary today than when, year and half ago, it was presented to the Portuguese and when, six months ago, it was announced by the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u63	Mr Minister, the Bureau has registered, in order to make requests for clarification, four Mrs. Members of the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the PAN. How do you intend to respond? [[Pause.]] The Minister informed the Bureau that he would respond to two requests for clarification at a time. You have the floor for the first request for clarification, Mrs Susana Amador, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u64	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to stress the importance of Mr Minister's presence in this debate, a presence which has been clarified and frameworks in relation to the restructuring and reform of the SEF, but a presence which was also very important for the balance sheet that brought us with regard to the security and internal security policy options, which have basically improved and consolidated the position of Portugal in the world. Portugal is the third most peaceful and safest country in the world. Portugal is the sixth best in relocating refugees. Portugal is the best room for children and unaccompanied minors. Portugal was the first country to adopt its national plan to implement the Global Pact for Safe Migration. Therefore, this is a course that has been made of good choices and a country that clearly projects a philosophy of peace, of defending human rights and of dignity of the human person. And this safe and more peaceful country status in the world, Minister, is a source of territorial competitiveness, which we must value and safeguard, since, with this qualification, there are very positive data and impacts on tourism, the economic component and the commercial component. The restructuring of the SEF, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is another important step on this path, with a renewed ambition of humanization of the relationship of services with immigrants and of administrative modernization in an internal security policy framework, which, above all, wants to ensure better responses and specialized approaches, improving police functions in existing bodies. It is a reform that always wants to be anchored in respect for human rights and human dignity. It is a planned reform because it is part of the Government's programme — it is not, Mr Telmo Correia, a reaction to an event — it was soon planned, planned and planned from the first hour. It provides for the clear separation between the police and administrative functions of the SEF and translates a planned and necessary political option that will allow for a better performance of the Portuguese State in the context of immigration policy, because support for immigrants, support for refugees, will be one of its greatest functions and will give great centrality to the new service of foreigners and asylum, which now involves the word'asylum' in its name, and is not by chance. This word translates a consolidation path in the defence and international protection of refugees. It was clear, in this debate, that the right is concerned about the form, is lost in soeze attacks and multiplied in political attacks, but, dear Telmo Correia and Carlos Peixoto, these attacks do not lead us anywhere. And my bench is focused on getting to the place that matters. And what's the place that matters? It is always the defense of those who suffer persecution, who flee armed conflicts, systematic violations of human rights, and who simply seek a dignified and rights-based life. This one, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it will always be our focus, for which we will not give up. We cannot ignore that we have 80 million displaced persons and refugees in the world and that some 30 million of these are children and adolescents; we cannot ignore that between 2014 and 2020 more than 2300 children have lost their lives in the Mediterranean. I wish I had heard you talk about these things! Global approaches are needed to migration and the asylum system, respecting international law and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. That is why we have tabled this very day, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a draft resolution on the protection of human rights and the European Union's foreign migration policy, which follows the European Parliament resolution of 19 May, and which, by its relevance, has an impact on our national migration policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this project, we recommend that the Government respond to the European Parliament's calls in the field of human rights protection, safe readmissions and universal ratification of the 1951 Geneva Convention. We are sure that the Government will follow this recommendation, in fact, in the light of what is our matrix. Mr Minister, I ask you: do you agree, or do you not agree, that it is necessary to create safe channels for regular immigration, the only way of effectively combating trafficking in human beings, in particular women and children, and also for immigrant exploitation networks? Do we have a duty to ensure that all decent working conditions and levels of integration are compatible with the dignity that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights inspire us? Finally, I ask: what gains does this reform of restructuring the SEF in the area of asylum law involve, which has assumed an increasing external dimension in view of the role that Portugal has been taking and occupying in this area? Mr Minister, until the new Frontex regulation does not ignore the size of international human rights obligations, but even strengthens it, how does this reform strengthen this dimension of human rights at the level of the external sources of the European Union? In political life, we have to act and we have to be what matters. And the Portuguese know that the Socialist Government and this Parliamentary Group care about those who dream of peace words that have never been said and those who speak in silence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u65	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u66	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, we are not here discussing the internal security policy of this government. In fact, for this we will have a regiment hearing next week, in which all issues related to internal security policy, including immigration policy and even the operation of the SEF, of course, can and should be discussed, because that is why these hearings serve. We are not here either to discuss whether or not the Minister is doing his job well. That is not what is under discussion, what is under discussion are two things: one of them is the assumption of this discussion, which has to do with the announced restructuring of the Foreign and Border Service ; the other is a concrete issue, on which the draft resolution submitted by the CDS, of whether this Parliament believes that this should be the subject of a parliamentary assessment in the legislative field, i.e. whether it should be the subject of a proposal for a material law to be submitted by the Government. With regard to this matter, I would like to say that among the arguments used recently by Mr José Magalhães there is one that has a short leg, which is to say « you want this because a proposal for a law has come down here». This argument has a short leg because, obviously, the government is politically responsible to Parliament and cannot be tempted to want to govern by the rain intervals. In other words, the government has to live with Parliament, with the relationship of forces here, obviously. That is how the democratic regime works. It would therefore be an illusion to think that the Government could legislate against Parliament because, of course, everyone recognizes, and this has already been said, that there is a mechanism in the parliamentary assessment of legal decrees and, of course, Parliament would always pronounce-CL.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u67	No more!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u68	On the question of the need for a proposal for a material law, he said recently that he could no longer agree with the argument made by Prof. Jorge Miranda, who considers that this matter is unequivocally under the absolute reservation of legislative competence of Parliament, but he said that this is not because the security services regime is not covered. Mr Minister, your argument also has one problem, which is the following: the Internal Security Act is unequivocally covered by Article 164. that of the Constitution and it does not pass to us the head that any government intends to amend the Internal Security Law by decree-law. Now the Internal Security Act establishes the list of security forces and services in its Article 25. point ( d ) of paragraph 2, which expressly provides for the Foreign and Border Service. It is true that then, in paragraph 4, it is said that the regime of the various security forces and services is subject to supplementary diplomas and can then be by decree-law, because the Internal Security Act confers this ability. That is why the current organic laws of these services and forces are made by decree-law, but one different thing is to extinguish that service. Mr. Minister said: "So isn't the Statute of the Judicial Police by decree? For it is, but if the government wants to extinguish the judicial police, there is already a very different one.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u70	That would be the same as saying that the branches of the Armed Forces have organic laws approved by decree-law and, obviously, the government cannot extinguish the army without changing the National Defence Law and without coming to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u71	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u72	Therefore, Minister, your argument also has a problem and therefore, because it is the extinction of a security service provided for in the list of the Internal Security Act and because we cannot take into account that there is no such article in the Internal Security Act, it would be advised that this matter would be brought to Parliament, with all democratic openness, to debate and to seek understanding between the various political forces. Obviously, security forces and services must be above any suspicion of bias, they must bring together the greatest consensus among the various political forces, the national interest of their function must be recognized and from that point of view would be advised that this discussion should not only take place in a hypothetical parliamentary assessment of legal decrees but also in the adoption of material legislation on this matter. This is our opinion and we wanted to convey it here with all the border, Minister. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u73	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Susana Amador and Mr Antonio Filipe, I will be very brief and brief. Mrs Susana Amador, I fully agree with the European and humanist dimension which has, in fact, marked the Portuguese Presidency. I started the day at 8 a.m. in Lisbon, participating by videoconferencing in a debate in the European Parliament on the Pact for Migration and Asylum in which it was precisely highlighted by the chairman of the committee responsible, the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs (LIBE), the role of the Portuguese Presidency in placing the external dimension on migration, in relation to the countries of northern Africa and in a very concrete way, the approval of the Blue Card Directive, one of the ways of promoting legal migration and which had been pending several difficulties for more than three years. It has been completed and is already an active, completed process, of our Presidency in this area. Mr António Filipe, I welcome the serenity and constructive contribution he makes to this debate, mainly by restricting the wording that is made to the list of structures referred to in the Internal Security Act. This is a constructive contribution to the debate, which in no way separates the essential of the construction of a solution that passes through the rapid establishment of an administrative structure that allows the police functions to be separated from administrative functions in the treatment of migrants.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u75	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u76	Mr President, Minister, the first thing I would like to say to you is that you, in your speech, do not know how long you have been telling us "the Socialist Party this, the Socialist Party that, the Socialist Party thinks, the Socialist Party does" and it is unfortunate that I have to be telling you that you are not the spokesman of the Socialist Party. You are Minister of Internal Administration and should be aware of this, you should have that notion when you are in Parliament. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u77	Please! Center yourself on the content.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u78	You did not come here to make politics party, or you should not come, but that is already your problem. The Socialist Party has spokespersons and also has spokespersons in Parliament. Secondly, in my opinion, Mr Minister falls into contradiction because, following this propaganda logic so typical of the Socialist Party, everything is excellent. It is all excellent, we are humanists by nature, immigration policy is a success, what we saw in Odemira was probably an illusion, nor did it happen, nor were those people exploited, nor were there traffic networks to operate in relation to them. None of that happened, it's all extraordinary. The question is obvious, Minister: if everything is extraordinary, why does you need to change everything and complete the service? If everything is going so well, if we are such a good example, what is your need to make a radical change in this matter? Mr Minister, do not tell us that it is just because you are in the Government Programme, because you have confirmed what I have already told you that the Government Programme does not say that the SEF is extinct. The Government Programme says that there is a separation and that separation can be made with the SEF, as is evident. There are many possible solutions to make this separation, not just those of the Council of Ministers resolution. He said that the constitutional issue was irrelevant or that he did not know the opinions and that perhaps the opinions were not well. Mr Minister, the opinions are very simple. Jorge Miranda says that « the reorganization of the Foreign and Border Service enters the absolute reserve of legislative competence of the Assembly of the Republic, Article 164. the Constitution and « possible reorganization by the Government, even with a legislative authorization, would be patently unconstitutional ». Reading these opinions, which I have read, Prof. Rui Pereira's argument is even more interesting — and Mr. António Filipe was there! — which is that we have not been able to extinguish the SEF without attributing powers, without making a transition, without moving within the framework of the security forces. Therefore, if it were not directly for what the SEF implies, and there are serious equations that contradict what it said, it would be for the global reorganization of security services that we would have to have material law. The Minister said, "I surprised you by coming here" and I have no problem with that. It has surprised me, but it is like everything in life, Minister, there are good surprises and bad surprises. [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u79	This one's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u80	When I saw him, I thought that we were going to have a good surprise and that the Minister would say, "I finally understood and I will present material law to the Assembly of the Republic". It was a good surprise, but you chose the bad surprise, which was to say « no, that is, if there is appreciation there, the government knows and I do not give up on this reality». So I keep my question: does the Minister bring this material law to Parliament or not? The parties agree, or not, and that is what we shall take the vote here shortly, that this issue must come under material law to Parliament. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u81	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u82	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, other members of the Government, Mr. Members, in fact, in our view, there is an absolutely incontrovertible issue here. It is the result of your own words, Mr Minister, that on the one hand we are faced with a mere security service, but on the other hand it is so important that this service, whose strike will call into question national security, which, if not, would give rise to civil demand. Therefore, we cannot fail to miss this inconsistencies in the analysis of the SEF itself, even because, Minister, he could not fail to agree as much as possible with what has been said either by Mr Telmo Correia, or by Mr António Filipe. Indeed, although this can be a gray area in the interpretation of the Internal Security Act and these various services, we are entering into a dimension in which, from the moment that this restructuring also has an impact on the sphere of other criminal police bodies, in our view, Mr Minister, it is clear that this subject has to come to the Assembly of the Republic. Even because the Minister began to mention that he respects Parliament as the voice of our fellow citizens. So, Minister, it's a voice that can't be silenced nor can it be set aside. This does not merely result in an advisory effect, listening to the parties and then not being available to discuss in this Chamber an amendment which is absolutely structural for the security of the country and, more importantly, for the implementation of human rights. We agree at all — not only publicly but also at meetings with the Minister himself — that the SEF needs to be restructured, and that restructuring is already delayed, so that the different valences can be improved, either from the point of view of border control or from the point of view of administrative procedures. However, it is not through complicated processes that are later resolved with civil demands—until it is the request of a civilian who will ensure a trapping at the level of management of this process—that we will, for example, solve the serious problem of the laxity of legalization processes, the problem of laxity and what this is when people swoop in a bureaucratic mesh in current processes and in the absence of human resources to, for example, avoid them becoming in a fragile situation precisely because the processes are drawn over time. in this sense, Minister, there is a question that seems to me to be structural. Knowing that, for example, both the GNR and the PSP, together with the SEF, have not, over the years, seen their human resources follow the absolutely structural needs to respond to growth, whether the demand for migration, whether the skills they have in charge, how will the Minister guard and ensure that there will be nothing left behind? With regard to monitoring and monitoring of human rights, what will the Minister effectively assure us? Will this restructuring not aggravate the situation, whether fragile, of foreign citizens or of national security competence? How can you ensure at this time that these social, economic and security vulnerabilities in the country will be guarded? The Minister has not answered this yet, and it would be important for us to leave here today with concrete answers to these two questions. It is, or not, available to involve this Parliament more broadly in this amendment, which, in our view, must happen and, of course, if the diploma comes to the Assembly of the Republic, it is to be discussed and effectively worked. On the other hand, to think and plan the future of the SEF — in this case its amendment — both of the other police forces must be worked in an absolutely planned and detailed way, which is not consistent with, then, being diabolizing the union itself or the employees themselves for going to strike. It seems to us that this is starting the house on the roof, which makes no sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u83	To reply, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Telmo Correia and Mr Inês de Sousa Real, what is evident is that this debate cleared the basis for the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u85	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u86	The CDS, Mr Telmo Correia, presented as a reason to justify this debate—with some dramatic tension, which is perfectly respectable, is part of the rights and choreography, in the way it will legitimately choose to exercise the parliamentary mandate—the fact that this is the subject that the Government was hiding and that therefore had to use the only right of legislative agenda which it still had in this legislative session to reveal it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u87	The legislative session is about to end!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u88	Well, here it is! We have discussed this subject several times, in committee, we have already discussed it in the Internal Security Council, we have discussed it with all the unions, we are here doing so - this afternoon and the commitment we have, yes, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, is that the position of all the benches will obviously have to be weighted on what is the realization of something that is necessary and is not shaken. In fact, we have already gained cause here today, which I would not expect, when Mr Telmo Correia said, 'Yes, we will carry out the Government's programme, it did not need to be this way, there would be other ways'. We recognize your attempt to make a contribution to the success of the Government's Programme, but we now demand the right of initiative as a government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, it is precisely because of this urgency that we should improve, this need, on the one hand, to maximize the capacity that today the two security forces I have announced, the Public Security Police and the Republican National Guard, already have within the framework of their competences, which are extended here, and, on the other hand, to concentrate the competences of criminal investigation in the Judicial Police, which was still recently recognised as something positive in the framework of this reform, is that there is this urgency, I repeat, which justifies the realization of this reform. Finally, being fully in agreement with the honourable Member, there is a need to separate this dimension from what is the relation with immigrants, which we want to be accompanied by an administrative service and not by a criminal police body in its current relationship. This is the dimension we want. That is why we will have the contribution of all in this debate and in all the rights which, constitutionally and legitimately, will exercise. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u89	For an intervention, Mrs Cláudia Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u90	Mr. President, Minister of Internal Administration, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The restructuring of the SEF is part of the Government Programme and before it was already in the Electoral Programme of the Socialist Party. Ihor Homeniuk died under the dramatic conditions we knew on 12 March 2020 months after those programs in 2019 if they had become public. It will not, therefore, be the tragic death of Ihor Homeniuk to define the change in the reception of migrants and in the investigation of the crime associated with migration, even though it seems that the way Ihor died should not be forgotten. We will not recover your life, nor everything that has been lost with it, but perhaps we can honor your memory by reflecting on what we should change. One thing we know: it is not possible to “rend the clothes” in indignation and to cry out that everything is bad for, then come here to defend that, after all, everything should remain more or less in it. The idea that the concept of internal security needs to be reviewed is not today. In today's world, no security can be only internal, we don't live in an aquarium. The concept of security must expand. Today, perhaps we should talk mainly about human security. in this, the state remains a reference, but it is no longer the only one. The concept of human security focuses on the person and well-being of peoples. With this concept of security, the questions posed by migrants are addressed under a new prism. Each country makes choices about migrants who can receive and the reception of migrants should not be framed in a police context. One thing is the reception of migrants; another is the parasitic crime of migrations and the limits that each State defines them. This crime is a police matter and should be treated as a very serious crime. Migrants deserve a response; criminals, who take advantage of weaknesses, deserve another answer. A number of reasons justify the paradigm shift. I'll only try two. First reason: the fear that migrants have of the police and the fear of being treated as criminals makes them more vulnerable to exploitation and makes it difficult to discover the crimes they are victims of. Therefore, the structure that has them as interlocutors should not also be a police structure. One of the greatest perplexities of human trafficking is the difficulty of its detection. There are tens of thousands of people trafficked around the world. Why do we have so few criminal cases? There are many more drug-trafficking processes than human-trafficking processes. For people's traffickers, the risk of discovery is extremely low and the probability of profit is enormous. In 2020 13 victims of human trafficking have been confirmed in our country. But how is this possible? Why do criminals manage to hide more easily living people who talk and move than white powder or tablets? For a main reason and for other complementary reasons. The main reason is that victims of human trafficking do not want to be found. And they do not want to be found, above all, because the system favors confusion over the one who is their role and, therefore, they are afraid of the police. They don't know if they're being treated as victims or as criminals. As Manu Chao sings in Clandestino, an anthem of all migrants, « I will go alone with my sentence/ Alone will my sentence/ Running is my destiny/ Because I do not have roles/ I am a phantom in the city/ My life is forbidden/ Say authority». The victims will only report the crime of trafficking in persons if we can fight the weapons used against them by their aggressors. And one of these weapons is precisely the fear of the police. We look at Teresa's story : Teresa was created by her grandmother in Central America and, still young, was deceived with promises of love and a better life by a man who thought she was concerned about her. She was taken by this man to the United States of America and he forced her to prostitute herself, staying with all the money and threatening her that she would be deported and then humiliated before the family if she denounced him. But what concluded the international report that presented Teresa's case is the following, and I quote: "The threats of that man not only instilled fear in Teresa and coaxed her into being exploited; they also convinced her that she was a criminal, for having violated the federal laws on immigration and local laws against prostitution. There are people like Teresa caught up in forced services all over the world, who fear that justice systems will stab them or expel them instead of condemning and arresting their traffickers—and, in fact, in many countries their fears are often justified'. The measures we have taken in Portugal to protect these victims are very positive in international reports, but we all know that it is possible to do more. And we want more to be done. We will only be able to help these people and combat trafficking in human beings if they understand, first, that they are victims of serious crimes and not only victims of the accident. Another victim, named Caitlin Lawrence, said: «I didn't know he was a victim of anything except circumstances». These victims need to know that they will not be punished themselves and that they do not need to fear the police because there is a structure to welcome them or protect them that is different from that police structure that will investigate criminals allowing them to punish them. The second reason for the difficulties in the discovery of trafficking in persons, for what the doctrine treats as the "invisibility of victims of trafficking in human beings" is the following: the overlap of the competences of the judiciary and the SEF prejudices research. The dispersion of competences in the investigation was identified by judges and by elements of the police themselves in an essential study published in Portugal on trafficking in human beings. in this study, it is unequivocally stated that the allocation of competences to the PJ and the SEF determines the « confusion that occurs on the ground with the overlap of investigations ». And the conclusion is clear: there is a need for changes to this research model. I shall conclude by saying the following: We have removed the acceptance of the slavery of our laws, but we have not yet succeeded in removing it from our reality. There are tens of millions of victims of modern slavery and many have been trafficked. Each of these people lives their personal tragedy, begging in the streets of our cities, working from sun to sun in the fields where the fruits that we eat are harvested, selling as if they were expensive cheap drinks in the nightclubs that we could attend or prostitute in apartments advertised in the newspapers we read or choose not to read. The victims of the crimes of trafficking in human beings are among us and will therefore depend above all on us who become treated as what they are: not as things, not as criminals, just as people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u91	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the discussion we are now making, at the initiative of the CDS-PP, there is no question, at least from the perspective of the Greens, of the contents of the restructuring of the Foreign and Frontier Service that the Government announced, without prejudice to our view that it would be of complete convenience - a serious reflection on the SEF, its means, its methods and the mechanisms for its supervision. A reflection that is intended to be integrated into a broader approach on all internal security and not only of reaction to events, which have taken place in particular and which we all know, although these events have been strengthening and making the need for the profound reformulation or restructuring of the SEF more urgent, especially at media level, be technical, human or material. A restructuring that leads to solutions that enable the State to ensure compliance with human rights in public places and the duty to ensure the principles of the democratic rule of law. What is required is the realization of a true immigration policy that ensures international protection for all those who need international protection, in particular with regard to the most vulnerable, respect for human dignity and human rights, which is only objectively possible if we also provide adequate human, technical and material services for the full performance of the functions assigned to these services by law. It follows that, as has been mentioned here today, on 14 May, the Government approved in the Council of Ministers'redefinition of the tasks of the SEF'. But as I have just mentioned, in this debate there is no discussion of the content or merit of this redefinition, what is at stake is whether the government can reform the SEF by changing the framework of its competences as a security and criminal police service, or whether we are talking about a competence that only belongs to the Assembly of the Republic. The Greens, like the SEF inspectors and even some experts already mentioned today, consider that this restructuring cannot be done by the Government, since the Internal Security Act jointly considers the GNR, PSP and SEF to be subject to the same regime of reserved competences of the Assembly of the Republic. And in this case we even speak of an absolute reservation of legislative competence, which refers us to Article 164. that of our Constitution, where there is a set of direct and immediate legislative decisions of the Assembly of the Republic. In other words, the materials contained in Article 164. that of the Constitution, having a constitutional seat, are seen as laws implementing the Constitution itself and this execution lies in the Assembly, and, in the matter of absolute reservation, this means that only the Assembly of the Republic can legislate on them. But even though it does not seem to us to be the case, there are doubts, they suggest the great constitutional principles that should be preferred to the adoption of interpretation which is more appropriate to the primacy of the Assembly of the Republic. It is also this reading which has been accepted by the case-law of the Constitutional Court, as can be seen, for example in Judgment No 793 / 2013, where the Court makes it clear that, and I quote, « (...) it is not easy to clarify strictly the scope of the matters reserved for the legislative competence of the Assembly of the Republic, it should be preferred, in doubt, the most favourable interpretation of the extension of the reserved competence of the Assembly of the Republic ». Therefore, from the perspective of DOS Verdes, looking at our constitutional architecture, result in two data that are very relevant to the subject we are now discussing. First, the Government cannot in any way replace the Assembly of the Republic in the treatment of any matter which the Constitution reserves to the Assembly of the Republic. Secondly, when we talk about reserves of competence, we are talking not only about the construction of new legislative standards but also about changes to existing standards. Therefore, without wishing to make any value judgement on the content of the stirs that the Government intends to make for the SEF in this debate, we do not accept the way the Government intends to make these stirs, especially on the margins of the Assembly of the Republic, of course. If this has happened in the past, it has been a bad way of correcting, because past mistakes do not justify nor can they justify the mistakes of the present or the mistakes of the future. In fact, it is at least curious that the Government, for example, in the case of Montijo airport — which could amend the law decree to pass over the authorities that did not give the opinion that the Government wanted — sent the proposal to the Assembly of the Republic to legislate, when he could, himself, amend the bill. in this case, it does exactly the opposite, it intends to legislate on matters which fall within the competence of the Assembly of the Republic. You don't get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u93	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. For an intervention, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State, good afternoon. The Left Block considers that the Government must send to the Assembly of the Republic a bill for the organic reorganization of the Foreign and Border Service. We believe that if there is a matter which falls within the competence of Parliament, this is the subject of the reorganization of the services and security forces and must therefore be brought to Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u96	We understand and follow the urgency of this debate. The Government's programme introduced this measure in 2019 and we have already asked Mr Minister many times when this reorganization would happen, so we are available to adapt the schedule grid we have for June 2 to give the Government the opportunity to hold that debate on that date.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u98	Therefore, bring this bill to the Government in June and it will be discussed and approved in the Assembly of the Republic, which will enable a stable framework for the Foreign and Border Service. This reorganization was adopted at the Council of Ministers on 8 April and the resolution which was adopted sets out legislative policy guidelines for the restructuring of the Foreign and Border Service, establishing the Foreign and Asylum Service ( SEA ), but although it is expected that citizens and foreign citizens will be served in the same services as other citizens, we do not yet know how this restructuring will be carried out. We do not know which mechanisms will be implemented to ensure full respect for the rights of foreign and migrant persons, which means will be made available by this restructuring the agency and how employees will be distributed. These concerns have been brought to us by representatives of the trade unions of the different workers, not knowing also what measures will be guaranteed to reconcile careers and to ensure the protection of people. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS, Minister, we have here an opportunity to change this paradigm that we consider to be inadequate, old-fashioned and inefficient and we also have an opportunity here to match the speech of good reception practices, the welcome speech that Members of the PS have so many times, but the Minister also has. So here we have the opportunity to match this speech with an effective reception practice that fully and absolutely respects the rights of migrant people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u100	Therefore, there is political courage to bring this bill to Parliament that there is a majority to enable it and the Left Block will not lack this opportunity to pass this decree.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u102	Migrants, as we have often said, face a bureaucratic calvary to regularize their situation and this cannot continue. The situation was already complicated at the time pre-pandamy. Many migrant organisations say that the functioning of the SEF, its lack of human resources, is the biggest obstacle to migrant people in Portugal. We know that it is a odyssey, a calvary, to get an agenda, and at this time of the pandemic these schedules are suspended, only the urgent ones can be made. Chronic delays, excessive bureaucracy and discretion are the business cards of a rusty system, which puts the lives of people who seek better living conditions in Portugal to a halt. This has to be changed, Minister. We need a structure that responds unequivocally to migrant people and places them at the heart of their policy, and we must also place them at the heart of migration policy, at the heart of our host policy. We cannot continue to say that we welcome well when we know that there are people who are waiting for an agenda and that their condition, this situation, which is maintained by the relationship that the Portuguese State has with migrant people, is that it empowers the abuses and exploitation that Odemira's situation has neglected. So we really need to change this reality and we need to change it in Parliament. That is why the Left Block agrees with the need to bring this decree to Parliament. On the other hand, this reorganization must, as I have already said, place people at the heart of its policy and must dismantle, combat and profoundly alter this conception, which makes immigration policy coincide with the policies of security and protection of the country. Immigration should not be a police matter and the rights of migrant persons should be safeguarded and protected. We therefore need a host policy based on a humanistic approach that respects rights and values the diversity and contribution that people make to Portugal. In the opinion of the Left Block, this achievement is due to an unequivocal organic separation between administrative functions and research and supervisory functions. This decree must be debated and discussed in Parliament so that it can respond, as I have already said, to the needs and place people at the centre of its action. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u103	Mr André Coelho Lima, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u104	I would like to congratulate Mr President, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Minister. First of all, I would like to congratulate the CDS on this initiative, because of this agenda, because we are discussing this issue here in Parliament. This is an important matter for the PSD, as we have stated in last week's political declaration, which was devoted exclusively to this matter. I would also like to congratulate the Minister for coming to the debate. It is important to have Mr Minister in the debate, but finally, before you can see a reason for satisfaction, I must tell you that if the Minister has served as a safe haven for Mr Prime Minister here — because while the Minister is at the centre of the shells of the opposition, Mr Prime Minister, as he likes, he will slip between the raindrops — the truth is that, as the Azimuth has recently turned to the Prime Minister, he has determined that Mr Minister is here to return to protect him and to return to his comfort zone. This is very much the case with the Prime Minister, but it does not naturally relieve itself of the responsibility in this matter, which is not fulaniised by the Minister, is from the Government as a whole. So, by going to the subject, we will say this: Mr Minister, there is a constitutional dimension here and there is an institutional and political dimension. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u105	The constitutional dimension has already been discussed here too much. The Minister has already referred to Article 164 ( u). the, which is the security forces regime, and we will not enter the legal debate, we will enter the political debate. It is for this kick that we, PSD, have tried to bring the discussion, from the beginning. And notice, Mr Minister, it is not a coincidence or an oblivion of the PSD that has not submitted a draft resolution or initiatives in this regard, the PSD has always appealed, from the outset, to the sense of responsibility of the Government in the matter in which it is moving and the truth is that, from the beginning, we have received from the Minister, in particular, and from the Government an absolute misunderstanding, a deafening silence, not just because it does not want to debate in Parliament but because it does not want to debate in the institutional councils, as this has to be debated. Therefore, Mr Minister, as Mr António Filipe has said, I also tell you that it is clear to anyone that the amendments to this restructuring proposed by the Government in the GNR and the PSP alone require that there be an amendment to the Internal Security Act and that this is discussed here. We know that from the beginning, but that is not what we want, Minister! What we have called for from the outset is that, in the matter of amendment to the Internal Security System, it is discussed here and discussed, as I said last week, in order to ensure its permanence. That is to have the responsibility of someone who is taking the place of the Minister. It is a question of ensuring this debate, where we agree or disagree, that there will be points where we will disagree, but there will be points where we will agree, Minister! Now, not to debate and want to do the tax restructuring, it is to start the house on the roof, ensuring its failure, which, if not immediately, will be in the near future. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u106	Mr Minister, it is clear that this restructuring, this reform — finally, for us, a dismemberment of the SEF — has side objectives and there is one that I only realized here today. The Minister said — I even wrote here — that « this strike demonstrates the reason we have». And I said, moments earlier, that the GNR and the PSP differ from the SEF, in particular, because they are not entitled to strike. Mr. Minister today has shown another reason that, until now, I confess, we have not understood,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u107	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u108	... because of the circumstances of wanting, casuistically, to make a concrete change instead of, as we have said from the outset, a global change in the Internal Security System. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u109	It is, Mr Minister, what we have always said from the outset is that we, PSD, are in favour of the organic change between police and administrative functions. We're favorable! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u110	We've always been and we haven't changed our mind. However, we believe that this amendment should be transversal to the Internal Security System and not alone in the Foreign and Border Service. It is as simple as this and that is what we want to debate with the government. We also believe that in the PSP and the GNR there are agents dedicated to administrative functions that should not be dedicated to these functions, but this change must be a cross-sectional change to the system and not case studies, symbolic, only for the SEF, to the ride — here, yes! — an episode that gave him the argument to be able to come with this reform, without prejudice to what is stated in the Government Programme. [[PSD applause.]] But, Minister, what does this prove I just said? Try a set of inconsistencies. The Minister said that he was in the Government's programme wanting to make this organic change in the SEF, which corresponds to an extinction of the SEF, but on the other hand he had a plan of admission to the SEF, planned until 2023, with competitions opened two months ago. There are currently two progression competitions for chief inspectors and for inspectors-coordinators, when no progress has been allowed for 20 years — they have now been opened at the beginning of the year! — and on 13 April opened an invitation to tender for the admission of 21 workers for the career and category of supervisor and level 3 security. Minister, what do we not understand here? That is how it is explained that it is planned in the Government Programme, in advance and programmed, from the beginning, this amendment and you are opening competitions and career progressions. This demonstrates to the satiety that nothing was prepared, that it was done on top of the knee to serve as a protection to Mr. Minister in the matter of Ihor Homeniuk and no more! And the rest is conversation! [[PSD applause.]] More: are you really aware of what these changes imply at international level? For example — I have read this to the Minister — we have the Schengen catalogue, which tells us that only an authority should have the integrated border management dimension — I repeat, an authority. This government wants to have three! It also says that the authority that carries out integrated border management should not be a military or militarized force. The Government proposes the GNR for certain types of borders. More: the Government proposes that the future Foreign and Asylum Service, the SEA, internationally represents the Portuguese State. But Frontex can only be represented by police entities, Europol can only be represented by police entities! Will we be represented by those who do not have the ability to do so? Or, worse, are we going to spend the trouble of having three entities representing Portugal, when all other countries only have one? In other words, we must be aware that all of this we are doing here has enormous implications, especially in Portugal's international prestige. To discuss this is neither to oppose, nor to speak ill of the Minister, nor to endanger him in his role. In fact, it was Mr Minister who said he was coming to the last legislative hearing. I don't know if you have anything to announce us, but it's just the last hearing of the legislative session. Regardless of the others, the truth is that we are discussing the essence of the restructuring that we have on the table. And, yes, I must say this today, contrary to the various parliamentary hearings in which Mr Minister is not answering strictly any of this which I am asking again, we are debating the matter. I would also like to say that there is a second issue that came up on the table, which was not brought by the CDS but by the Socialist Party, which is the humanitarian dimension and the concept of human security which is now being followed in terms of good international security practices. What we have to say about this is the following: it is a mistake to confuse, as Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias said, of the Left Block, the practice of receiving well with the extinction of the police force that is associated with a terrible practice and that everyone, from one end to the other, here we condemn and of which we are all ashamed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u111	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u112	More: we cannot admit that the PSD is placed in the position of being the party that is interested in Portugal not having the good humanitarian practices it has had at the level of migration. This PSD does not allow! But what we do not do is demagogy with this matter, which is what you are doing. Why is it demagogy with this matter? I tell you: because of the change made in 2017,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u113	There he is! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u114	... by which you both fought, to the law then in force, approved before with the support of the PSD and the CDS — then it was with the support of the PCP and the Left Block. Take a good look at the transition from 2007 to 2017! There is only one problem here: the law already allowed the waiver of residence visas prior to the issue of residence permits, but it was an exception.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u115	You got it all figured out!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u116	You have now constituted this in a rule, which made it possible for residence permits to 4600 migrants in 2018 to 17 771, in 2019, to 31 511. [[BE's protests.]] Do you know what that means? Degrading human situations, such as those we have been exposed to in Odemira, and we can have others, are provided by whom, like you, you think it must be in any way and then they cover their eyes in the way people live and work in our country. [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] This is demagogy, worse, hypocrisy! We don't want to create a wall of impediments for people who want to enter our country. The humanitarian concept is dearer to us and it is not more expensive to you than to us, nor do we allow you to say that. [[BE's protests.]] But let people come in and don't want to know how they live and work, that, yes, Minister, is that the pandemic is rowing with hypocrisy. That's, yeah, it's just that I don't want to know. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u117	Calm down, calm down!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u118	And I say more: without a regularized labour market, it is the Portuguese State that contributes to situations like what we have seen. Without taking or putting, it's not worth saying any other way!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u119	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u120	What is needed is that the service works — the Foreign and Border Service or other service! — to know who enters, under what conditions, where he is staying, where he is working, to be able to have access, there, yes, with the dignity he deserves and is justified, to the social protection that the Portuguese have. Don't do this is leave people to their luck and for that you don't count on the PSD. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u121	To request clarification, Mr Francisco Oliveira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u122	Mr. President, Minister of Internal Administration, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, Mr Coelho Lima, I would like you to clarify to me a more specific issue, and I am referring to one of the forces in which the SEF forces are intended to be integrated. With regard to the SEF, and perhaps the honourable Member has a more comprehensive view, and to the various functions already performed by other forces, it is appropriate to highlight as an example those which fall within the competence of the GNR. In fact, the GNR already performs immense functions, particularly those of Coast Guard, through the Coastal Control Unit, which is the specialized unit responsible for the fulfilment of the Guard's mission throughout the coast and the territorial sea, through monitoring, patroling and intercepting and the Integrated Command and Control Surveillance System. In the area of security, it covers the control of passenger vessels, goods, in addition to a series of other areas, and irregular immigration, preventing and recriminating the irregular entry of foreign citizens through patrol and surveillance, with an important participation in Frontex, European Border and Coast Guard Agency. In turn, SIVICC, mentioned above, is the national maritime border surveillance system, consisting of a technology platform and the control and control component, which involves maritime and terrestrial interception. They are all GNR competences. The GNR has also been in the Eurosur ( European Border Surveillance System ) since 2012, with the competences and capabilities in maritime border surveillance, with the importance of the Portuguese maritime border, which is also the external border of the European Union. The task of Eurosur is to support Member States in improving control at the European Union's external border in order to reduce, or at least control, the number of immigrants entering the European Union irregularly and the loss of lives at sea — and many lives are already saved by our forces! — and to strengthen internal security by preventing cross-border crime. The evolution of Coast Guard function is elucidative, and in 2009 the competences related to environmental crimes and irregular immigration were included in the Coast Control Unit. As it is easy to see, this force already has in its various competences the control of borders and irregular immigration, with properly trained human resources and high-tech equipment connected online to the various European and world security forces, with the motto 'Doing less '. It is therefore understood that the Government's decision to determine that they must move from the SEF to the Republican National Guard to the following functions of police structure such as: to monitor, monitor and control the maritime and land borders; to act within the framework of processes of coercive removal and judicial expulsion of foreign citizens in the areas of their jurisdiction. Ensure that mobile controls and joint operations with national security forces and services and Spanish congeners are carried out is no more than the completion of the many functions already performed in these areas. in this sense, they do not mean the statements made by the PSD, and in particular by André Coelho Lima, which opposes the separation of administrative and police functions. That's what you said...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u123	It was nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u124	Did you see that written?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u125	That's what he mentioned in a given interview.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u126	It was nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u127	in a given interview he mentioned it! But do you not understand that when you talk about administrative functions in the SEF, we are not referring to the salary map or to attendance control? Do you not understand that in the SEF these banal administrative functions are the reception of migrants or residence permits? The protection of the right to career of workers of the SEF is established and it is appropriate to verify in the Council of Ministers' resolution that this capacity, this possibility and that right are safeguarded, insofar as they will be integrated into the career of research and supervision. Therefore, these elements will not be outside and even the contests that are taking place will be integrated into this same career. There seems to be an extreme contradiction in Mr Deputies. In fact, he said he knew that the Minister of Internal Administration had publicly stated that the restructuring of the SEF was in compliance with the Socialist Party's electoral programme. But in the same interview, it links the Ihor Homeniuk case, knowing perfectly that this restructuring results from a previous decision and without any connection to that brutal act. The Government Programme, in good time, proposed the separation of police and administrative functions, focusing its strategy on simplification of procedures, short-terms, and the creation of a citizen card for immigrants. The PS bench considers that the separation of functions is beneficial for the services and for all those who need them, it enables efficiency gains both for the processing of documentation, and for the issues of surveillance and crime. In short, does the honourable Member who criticizes so much the Ministry of Internal Administration and the services of the SEF, which it belongs to, intend to maintain everything as it is? After all, what is the proposal you have to offer us? Once again: the void. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u128	It's the bottom-down!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u129	You have the floor to answer, Mr André Coelho Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u130	Mr President, Mr Francisco Oliveira, thank you for the questions. It is a shame that, as the questions have already been prepared, they have not been able to adapt to what I have said here. But I am going to tell you the following, and it will not harm me: you should read better, if you are not tired of it, the interview I gave you, because you say nothing about what you said, you say the opposite, as I have just said. Since the hour one we say we are in favour of organic separation between police and administrative functions. However, we are unfavorable for it to be done alone in the SEF, because it must be transversal to the whole Internal Security System. It will be the 100th time I'm telling you, but I am telling you now to the honourable Member so that next time you don't take that step. The speech that Mr has made drawing attention to the functions that the GNR already has gives even more reason to the position that the PSD defends, that is, obviously there are communication matters not only between these two forces and security services but with others. That is why intervention in the system cannot be casuistic, it must be holistic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u131	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u132	That is why the system should be considered from above, its centralization, its coordination, access to the RNSI (National Internal Security Network ), precisely for what Mr said — I support half of his speech. That is why we defend a system that is not cassistic and directed, but that is thought and structured. That's a reform, it's not a patch blanket. Finally, the honourable Member said that we have the SIVICC which is the Integrated Coast Guard System that detects people coming by the sea to Portugal. You are absolutely right, because it was installed precisely for this, I don't know if in 2018 or 2019. He's just not right about one thing: he didn't detect a boat! Not one! That is, all those who are of public knowledge, we know about them through social communication or because, meanwhile, they have come to earth and someone has caught them. The system — which is recent, is not obsolete — has not caught one! Take a good look at the update the PS has that it doesn't even know that the system it implemented does not work! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u133	Mrs. Members, I would like to warn you that in the end there will be a vote on the draft resolution presented by the CDS-PP. We continue with the speeches and to that end I have the floor of Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u134	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Members, turning back to one of the fundamental issues that we have before us, namely the restructuring or extinction of the SEF, as if to call it, would begin by saying that the CFP sees very carefully the idea of separation between security functions and administrative functions. In fact, one of the basic errors in the creation of the SEF started exactly that merger. But this is historically explained. The SEF was created in 1986, was Prime Minister Aníbal Cavaco Silva, was Minister of Internal Administration the Eng. Eurico de Melo and we were starting a border closure period. In 1992, the Schengen Agreement and the Convention for the Implementation of the Schengen Agreement were signed, there was a tightening of immigration policies at European level, and Dr. Dias Loureiro was Minister of Internal Administration. So in the first years, when the SEF was installed, we were at a stage when the government considered it possible to close the borders to immigration. And the result was the exponential growth of illegal immigration. That is, there is evidence that life demonstrates, that immigration has sociological causes, and we cannot think that a law of immigration of closed policies will prevent immigration, because what it will do is increase illegal immigration. And that is, indeed, one of the great dramas that the right never learned, that the right never wanted to learn.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u136	Indeed, immigration happens when there is a job offer in the labour market. And what happens is, if this immigration is left illegal, it will increase an illegal immigration reserve. It is through integration and legalization that this problem is solved, not through the illusion of closed doors. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u137	But the question is, in fact, that the SEF was created to merge the two functions, and at a time when immigrants were police cases — the end point! That was the point of the debate in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u138	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u139	I am glad that we are no longer in this time and from there we see with very good eyes that there is a deepening of this separation. What's different is knowing what's done to the SEF. Well, we can say that extinguishing the SEF and integrating it into other forces may seem easy, but it is easier to destroy than building something. And one thing is that we think it is possible to terminate the SEF by decree, the more difficult it is to think of whether we can maintain the SEF's police functions — now I mean - exclusively the police functions alone — and that it performs those that must perform both at the internal level and at the level of international cooperation, with the division of current professionals by three different police institutions, maintaining the same conditions of operationality and specialization. That's what needs to be demonstrated. from then that a serious and in-depth debate in this House on this matter would perhaps allow us to demonstrate this, but so far it is not demonstrated. Therefore, we find it difficult to admit that one jumps into the dark and that within a few years we may be here, in the Assembly, to lament the consequences of an ill-considered extinction of the Foreign and Border Service. This seems to us to be the subject of a parliamentary debate, since, behind the procedural issue, it does not cease to be important, because it has constitutional implications, there is a fundamental question that it is important to discuss in this House, which is the following: is it necessary to exchange a security service, which is highly specialized in those which are police functions, and I emphasise this, by the GNR, by the PSP and the Judicial Police, we do not know exactly what proportion, has operational gains?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u141	The demonstration of this is that it would be important for the Government to be able to do this House and, of course, the parliamentary debate would have all the importance. That is why, as I have already said, we believe that this recommendation makes sense and, of course, we will vote in favour of it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u142	For an intervention, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Perhaps because of being on this side of the Chamber, it has become, to me, an important fact, visually, the absence, in this debate, of the Member of the extreme right. But, finally, there is nothing to add about this, there is a problem of chronic attendance and, therefore, there will be no comment. Unfortunately, however, no one has given much importance to this, and I say it with great regret and sincerity! — in the speech made by the PSD on this matter, it is said that the amendments which were made to the law recently, and which allowed the regularization of thousands of people who were already in the country, subject to a free exploitation, to a total disregard, resulted in an invasion of illegal immigrants, as it is suggested, is a trick that even the absent Member would remember. And, frankly, I am very sorry that it was the PSD that made that speech. [[Congratulations from BE.]] My second note is to say what you already know. I must confess on behalf of the Left Block my perplexity to the attitude of the Government in this matter, because it is a position — not to present a proposal for a material law to Parliament — legally indefensible and condemning the Government to political isolation. And from this point of view, what causes me great perplexity is that the government ignores all this. Ignore all of this! In view of the evidence that the whole Parliament has a different position than its own, in view of the evidence that, in terms of constitutional discussion, things are as they are, the Government remains impatience and serene and insists on its decision not to bring this problem, originally, to Parliament. That, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, causes me great surprise, great perplexity. And I tell you one thing: for the best reasons, such as those that were pointed out by Mrs Cláudia Santos, all that this reform was dispensing was the noise that VV. They are doing so through your fear of not bringing the problem to Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]] That is why, Minister, I cannot but say that prefer isolation to Parliament's involvement is a wrong sign for this case and for all those who follow. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u144	Mr José Manuel Pureza, the Bureau records the registration of Mr Duarte Marques of the PSD for a request for clarification. Please, Mr. Duarte Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, my dear Mr José Manuel Pureza, the honourable Member has been here a few years ago, like me, and we have almost always been on the same side for a policy of humanitarian migration, calling — the PSD and the Left Block — attention to the government that what it proclaimed it had no correspondence in reality. And we never doubted the good intention, because the PSD has always been next to the construction of quality hosting policies. And our country is a country that welcomes well, because it built and improved, year after year, what it did in this area. The Left Block didn't have to show up! Portugal has always been an example and the government behind the government has done its best! What's changed? What has changed is that, a few years ago, an amendment has been made to the law in which the PS has made an agreement with the Left Block and the PCP — and well-intentioned! — to more easily regulate situations. The problem is that they did not take care that the SEF had sufficient resources to be able to analyze with time and quality what was needed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u146	That was the problem! in what was the exception, which allowed the SEF and the Minister to authorize the cases that were justified, tied their hands to the SEF and passed by decree to enter everyone, whether or not false applicants. That's what's happening! You know, as well as I do, why did the previous Director of the SEF resign, why did you question this: why did you make a fool! And today, Portugal is known as the open-door destination of Europe. That's what the theses say! If this amendment had been made by those mobs that we fought together, it would not have been better, because the result, unfortunately, is this, and is irresponsible. This austerity policy of the government is seen in the resources of the SEF and seen in the rest! You see in the GNR, you see in the PSP... The government has been negotiating with the unions almost a year ago the risk allowance and "throw sand for the eyes"... Why? Because he has no resources to give. This is what's happening! And, Mr Minister today, he speaks of the lack of conditions of migrants working in the Alentejo, but this time it is not yours, it is also Mr Prime Minister who knows this. However, there is one thing that is your responsibility: the shameful conditions in which some PSP and GNR agents live in Lisbon and other cities, in blocks far worse than the homes of agricultural workers in Odemira. And this is Mr. Minister's responsibility! Why? Because, once again, you walk here with fandangos, trying to trick people, trying to mask their failures, because the area that should be the country's security area is the erratic area, the inconsistencies and the incompetence. Mr Minister is not the guarantor of national security, Mr Minister is basically the shield of all the controversy that has just relieved his colleagues of government. And, Minister, I don't want that either. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u147	Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, I do not know very well what I have to say to Mr Duarte Marques in response to the direct dialogue between Mr Duarte Marques and the Minister. In any case, I understand Mr Duarte Marques' efforts, and I would like to congratulate him sincerely on this, in correcting an intervention which was an unfortunate intervention. It happens, life is like this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u149	Yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u150	I believe that Mr Duarte Marques is making an effort, finally, heroic, to try to disguise something that seems obvious to me. It is because the PSD suggested that, in fact, there was in the amendment of the law that was made relatively recently in this Parliament the responsibility for a massive invasion of illegal immigrants.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u151	That's not what the PSD said!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u152	Mr Duarte Marques, just because we have been together at many times in this issue—and I would like to emphasise that—he well knows that the amendments that were made to the law aimed at regularizing the situation of those who were in an irregular situation. Now, this is in the antithesis of what was said, a little while ago, by your party. It's as simple as this! On the other hand, Mr Duarte Marques spoke to the Minister, and on this matter Mr Marques will certainly respond. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u153	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to us that in this debate there is also a clear issue which must inevitably be mentioned. And I cannot help but comment on the recent statements made by the PSD Member : Portugal will hardly be an open-door destination, when we have recently had the serious case of Ukrainian citizen Ihor Homeniuk. If there is something deterrent to anyone who wants to come to Portugal, it is certainly to know that here is the risk of dying at the hands of the State. And that, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot forget or allow this debate to be forgotten about the restructuring of the SEF. Therefore, regardless of the legal regime that we currently have, and which has to be changed for the better, we cannot continue to allow the people who come to Portugal, the migrants whose labour we need, not only for the reasons that have already been widely debated, but for the contribution they make to our economy, to get into bureaucratic meshes, so that they can safely, without precaution and with conditions, work and have their life expectancy. But there is one question we have raised and the Minister has not answered either, concerning those which may be the expectations of increasing migration flows to our country. Lately, the world has been set eyes on what happened in Ceuta — the case of Odemira is not the only dimension covered by the competences of the SEF —, in the despair of migrants from sub-Saharan Africa who have sought an opportunity to fulfill their life expectancy, in search of a better life, and we well know that Portugal may not be immune to these migratory phenomena. This means that we must, in fact, have a vision of the future, a humanitarian vision, because we are also talking about this, we are talking about people whose lives cannot continue to be lost in the oceans and who cannot continue to have just as expectation come into the hands of traffic networks, without having a full response to this reality being monitored. That is why, Minister, we regret that we have not yet heard a more in-depth answer on strengthening the human resources. It is essential that we understand the path we are going to take. In fact, in the State budget, even by the hand of the NAP, a rule was entered which aimed to strengthen precisely the means of monitoring trafficking in human beings. What is this restructuring going to change, for example, in what this House itself approved, at the state budget, even more so with the agreement of the Government? This seems absolutely fundamental to us because, once again, I cannot but mention it, we are talking about an absolutely structural matter in terms of the realization and implementation of human rights to which we cannot remain indifferent.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u155	Mr José Magalhães of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u156	Mr President, Mr Minister of Internal Administration, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs Deputies, Mrs Members: This debate is coming to an end — we will have others — and it is impossible not to conclude that there are many parties to see with good eye — was the expression used, and that it is also beautiful — the separation between the police vector and the administrative vector of the European and national border control system and the management of foreign issues. Anyone who looks at this debate very far does not realize this and believes that, on the contrary, there is a huge diversity, it sounds shots and stamped...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u157	It's your fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u158	...and that Mr Telmo Correia came to bring war and not peace. Actually, he didn't come for good reasons. I will not cultivate such a democracy of the scream that Mr Duarte Marques has celebrated a while ago, with great effort and full lungs, which must tire you...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u159	Yours is more than the clown!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u160	Beware of these words, which in the past we would already reach the outbreak precisely because of it! So let's go back to the essentials. This is an acquired point and it is a point where we can make progress. The debate also made it very clear that the ideas set out in the Council of Ministers resolution are not the migration of a public service to a sort of hell, but to other public structures. in this environment, know-how will not be lost. The know-how will be maintained and framed, and I am not seeing that an inspector with much experience in combating human trafficking has difficulty living with a PJ inspector with much experience in combating human trafficking! It is therefore absurd to establish a « Berlin Wall » and to say « only here is wisdom, there reigns ignorance, there cannot work». It's not true and it's not. Secondly, it is a serious mistification, especially from Members who have an obligation to have constitutional literacy. [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] Unfortunately, Mr Marques Guedes was not present, who had a prominent role in this area in the fourth constitutional review, and who had the opportunity, in long speeches, to clarify what we wanted in Article 164. o point ( u ). Later, it was cited in Judgment No 304 / 2008 of the Constitutional Court, which, precisely, concluded from the reading of the parliamentary discussion on this addition, made in the fourth constitutional review, that this result of the legislator had not intended to cover the specific regimes of each of the security forces, but only the general regime applicable to all of them, since the rules relating to the internal organisation of each of the security forces are not included here. I repeat: the rules relating to the internal organisation of each of the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u161	That's not what's at stake!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u162	Now, it is said that there is a long discussion to be held in this area. All right, let's have this discussion. But, quite right, we can do it in many ways. Mr Duarte Marques, in fact, since he has this idea of separation, can present tomorrow a draft law on separation and on a new border control. We're very curious. And you can hold on to the penalty and revoke that horrible law, which has just denounced the screams. Why don't you, if she's a shame, if she's a horror? I will tell you why you do not: because this law would be rejected by a large majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u163	Bring the law here!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u164	We are not here for backlogs on the protection of immigrants. So you do not want to make that sad figure, and in my opinion, frankly, it does well.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u165	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u166	I still have a few seconds, Mr. President. Or don't I?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u167	You have one second, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u168	So, Mr President, let me just conclude by saying that this is not a leap in the dark, but a leap in the net, in which there is all the means of parliamentary control. We want these means of parliamentary control, we want to know the decree-law in question, which none of us still know! Let us have the debate with all honesty. The PS is in favour of this extended debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u169	Mr José Magalhães, although the Bureau has long exceeded its time, it records the entry of a Member to make requests for clarification. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u170	Mr President, Mr Minister of Internal Administration, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Magalhães, allow me to ask you, before the questions I have to ask you about a matter that lacks full clarity, make a small introduction to anticipate what has been the recurring strategy of the PS: to talk about the past. Mr President, the past is very important, and we are not afraid to talk about the past. But more important than the past is the present, and for the present it responds to the government and the parties that support it. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, Parliament has a special duty to monitor the activities of the government and to denounce its weaknesses. in this context, let me confront it with the human and material resource shortages of the SEF and confront it with the promises of its government. His Government has committed itself to significantly strengthening the human and material resources of the SEF. It is true that external competitions have been opened for this purpose, but, Mr President, six years later, the fundamental problem remains as it is and will deteriorate very soon. Mr Deputy, who in 2020 entered about 100 inspectors in the SEF, but at the same time about 30 requested the reform and 120 others are in the process of requesting a change to availability. Accounts made, Mr Minister, what your Government is doing is not a real reinforcement of effectiveness, but a replacement, which is still quite insufficient. Mr President, you will certainly agree with me that this lack of means drags with you another kind of rather negative consequences. I will give you a concrete example of what is happening in the SEF, in Madeira. Despite the successive promises of strengthening means and effectiveness, do you know how many new inspectors have won Madeira in the last six years? You won one, Mr. Deputy, an inspector. Therefore, far away, but even far from the real needs of that service in the region, which calls into question the operation of that service, with negative repercussions on the economy and tourism. This has also, very recently, prompted the intervention of the President of the Regional Government of Madeira. As you can see, Mr Minister, the problem is not just the lack of compliance with the promise of strengthening the number of assets and material deficiencies. It is also, Mr President, that of the consequences resulting from this non-compliance, in particular those that lead to the discontent of their professionals, to poorly secured services, to image damage in tourism and to obstacles to the economic recovery that is set in motion. Mr President, Mr Minister, in view of what I have just put forward, we would like the PS and the Government to be able to offer us a full and good response to these concerns, not to me of course Mr and Mr Minister, but to the Maderians and Portuguese in general, who deserve a response to this dramatic problem of constant de-investment in the services of the SEF. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u171	For an intervention, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by saying, in an unequivocal way, our commitment to migrant people. Mr. President, I'm sorry, can I switch places and go to the front bench?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u173	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's just, with the mask, I couldn't make my voice hear, and in the back seat I had to talk with the mask.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u175	It is a pleasure to hear your voice, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wanted to start by reminding people who are more distracted than the Left Block assumes its commitment, which is intransigent, to migrant people. In the past Parliament we presented a draft law to strengthen SEF's staff, a mission structure, just in order to be able to respond to the needs of migrant persons in order to ensure that their situation was regularized and that they did not maintain themselves in an irregular situation, which is the way you think foreign people should live in Portugal. You think that foreign people in Portugal should live in an irregular situation and that, if there is no answer, patience, we will wait, as soon as we see, to resolve this matter! We have an opposite opinion. We believe that there must be clear separation of the administrative and police aspects and of supervision. This separation is made by guaranteeing the right of migrant persons, and, in order to achieve it, it must come to Parliament, because we have many opinions, we have a vision focused on migrant persons and we have an intransigent view of the rights of migrant persons, which must be in this decree. We cannot accept that, once again, this discussion is coming out of Parliament or that a mechanism is created that does not respond to those who contribute to the wealth of our country and who live with us in the national community. So we cannot continue with the speech that criminalizes migrant people and says there is nothing to do. There is something to be done, and this is something that comes to Parliament because we are available to approve it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u177	The Minister for Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita, has now given the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the Parliamentary Group of the CDS, up to the appreciation we make of the role of Parliament. We are fully and permanently available here to discuss the implementation of the Government Programme. In fact, this debate results in a number of conclusions that seem extremely positive to me and that even exceed the expectation that we would admit. After all, all benches agree with the separation between police functions and administrative functions in the Foreign and Border Service. This is a cause gain that has never been evidenced with this clarity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u179	Months ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u180	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake is to know who actually wants to achieve it and who is here, using parliamentary choreography mechanisms, to expect this to be taken to the Greek calendars. No, this will be for the Portuguese achievements. That is why, too, it is essential that things are not confused. Mr André Coelho Lima asked, with a surprise: "But how is it possible, as the Government Programme said,..." — which has been mentioned several times — that only now at the end of 2019 has competitions been approved for the promotion of the framework of inspection and supervision careers? » It is that, in fact, for many years, during all the years in which they were so interested in the function of the SEF and throughout the Public Administration, these promotional contests were frozen and it was the government that opposed them to thawing the careers and allowing the opening of these contests. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u181	And you were a minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u182	Similarly, it was exactly at the end of 2017 that the first external competition for the strengthening of the inspection and supervision career since the previous ones, which had been in 2006, was opened. Since 2006 there has been no recruitment by external tender.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u183	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u184	That is the reality and there would be no voice that silences it. It's the administrative reality, it's the reality we all know. But we focus on what is essential, which is fundamental and has to do with the dimension of our position on this issue, which has to do with the very recognition of the need to value effectiveness in the police dimension. We understand the debate challenge that Mr António Filipe has made, but that means maximizing the intervention that the Public Security Police already has in the airport area today; maximizing the intervention that the Republican National Guard has today in actions at the land borders, as a true police force of territorial cohesion present throughout the country, or in its role as Coast Guard; concentrating in the judicial police what is the dimension of combating crime—to the specific crime of trafficking in human beings or aid to illegal migration; and, basically, we focus on what is the dimension of the administrative structure, with the nature of the general direction, which we want to be effective. Therefore, there is also an external competition to recruit more than one hundred — more than one hundred! — of new officials for the administrative area, in order to become effective, if they become focused, regardless of how much of what is today the function of this body is to be developed by the very same public services in which all of us — all those who are national citizens, as a foreign citizen — must be treated in a status of absolute equality. It is for this constructive discussion that, I believe, was worth this debate, not running away from what their initial expectations were. Therefore, we will not fail to absorb the best solutions at all stages of a legislative process which is urgent, but which is not finalised, in the exercise of the competence of the Government to fulfil its Programme, in respect of what is Parliament's power in legislative matters, in such a decisive matter that Portugal is a humanist country, a country with a human face relationship, which is indeed proud to have had, since 2016,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u185	Mr. Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u186	... more foreign citizens, and not as in the time when he not only expelled foreigners as he expelled Portuguese, as happened between 2011 and 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is on this return to Portugal for the Portuguese and for the foreigners who are here, it is on this humanist dimension that we want innovate internal security, a safe country and that it is a pride recognised by the Portuguese and in the international framework. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u187	To close the debate, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to record, on behalf of the CDS, that for us this legislative debate and the topic that we have brought the discussion was worth it, but not necessarily for the reasons that Mr. Minister of Internal Administration has just said. It was worth it because we were able to discuss a number of things here, even though it emphasises that the debate we wanted to bring and how we managed it was not — and it is not — a debate on immigration policy, where, of course, we have positions that are common to both sides and opposed to others. That was not the debate we wanted to bring here today, even if it was normal and legitimate than the honourable Members. Members would like to refer to it because it is a matter that is in fact very directly linked to the question of the SEF. In fact, as regards security forces, security services and immigration, I agree — it will happen exceptionally, but I agree — with Mr José Manuel Pureza when he noted here that those who say so much to defend the security forces and who care so much about immigration did not participate or collaborate in this debate, which is important. I don't put myself on each other's agenda, but I can agree with your observation until then. I no longer agree with the rest, with regard to immigration policy, but that is another matter. The PS has brought here, at the most final part of the debate, an interesting argument — and I will now return to a point in the Left Block — which is to say that the GNR already has competence. I mean, it is that argument of worth, because we know that of the competences that are in the SEF — of border control, foreign control, verification, etc. — at least 90 % of what Schengen is is from the SEF! Therefore, they say that there are some percentages that are already on the other side and that this justifies that reform is a good idea is neither argument nor logical, nor normal, nor acceptable, it is like that argument of already worth everything— 'we have no arguments, we throw anything up the debate'. Obviously, we do not all share here the ideas and model of reform. In other words, in accordance with Mr Coelho Lima, I think that anyone agrees that one thing is the administrative part, another thing is the security functions applicable to any security force. Another different issue — and I do not know if we agree there — is whether there is advantage or not. I am sensitive to the speech — I appreciated it — of Mrs Cláudia Santos, of the Socialist Party. Clearly, in the specific case that brings us all, we are sensitive. We place ourselves — we, the CDS — in this matter within what I consider to be the field of humanism, so to say, possibly with different solutions, but within the field of humanism, of whom we want to receive well, of whom we want to integrate, of whom we know that immigrants need our country and must be treated as our workers are treated. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u189	We clearly put ourselves in this field. But another question, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it is to know whether it is concentrating in the same body the criminal party and the migrant party or not that we better answer this question. This is a debate to be held and it was the debate that we wanted the government to bring here in the form of a bill. And that is what we are telling Parliament today. This is another discussion, because we can come to a humanist concern in one way or another. There are advantages and disadvantages in one and the other solution. But that is not the issue; it is a democratic and constitutional issue. Mr Magalhães tells us, in a very humble position, that he would make constitutional literacy, that he would write constitutionally to Parliament... Is it not? It was your proposal. Mr President, I would say that I already know something about this, that at least I will know, that I received at the Faculty of Lisbon Law of Prof. Jorge Miranda, that I was, by way of example, my teacher in Constitutional Law, as well as, moreover, he was a teacher of the Minister of Internal Administration and the Prime Minister, because we were contemporary in this activity of being "literated" by Prof. Jorge Miranda. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] Therefore, you, Mr. José Magalhães, could have modesty. You know, in terms of alphabet, when Mr. Deputy is in A already Prof. Jorge Miranda arrived at Z. [[Greetings and laughter from the PSD and CDS-PP.]] Then I could also have the modesty not to want to do the same to Prof. Rui Pereira. Do you know who Prof. Rui Pereira is?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u190	He was my minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u191	That's right! He was your Minister of Internal Administration. And he was the Minister and you were the Secretary of State. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u192	The Minister and you are there to teach everyone. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u193	Just change the boss and you're already there to teach everybody. Read what Prof. Rui Pereira says well, instead of trying to teach anyone. However, I wanted to say to the Left Block the following: Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, not sharing many of her views on this matter, there is a question that I find essential, which is the current point and the current moment. It is because the Minister said right now that the idea and the requirement — which I saw shared by many sides — of a material law on this matter was to leave for the Greek calendars. Anyway, I don't know what calendars Mr. Minister is up to, I know this announcement was made in January. This announcement of dismantling and extinction of the SEF was made in January, in the heat of the drama of the Ihor Homeniuk case. That is, we could have had material law on this matter for a long time. And we could have been discussing it for a long time, involving all parties and involving everyone in this discussion. And, Mrs Deputies, with a different political position, I tell you something that goes against your concern: Mr Minister comes here talking about civil demand—well, it is a right of the government, if you think it is indispensable to exercise it; that is not what is at stake—but could you not have spoken to the unions instead of making a civil request?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u194	Right now!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u195	It is, apparently, since January, since this announcement, the Minister has not negotiated with the unions, has not spoken to the unions and they do not know what will happen. That's the point. And that is what the government should have done, that is, it should have talked to the unions, had a material bill and brought it to Parliament. It is that, speaking to the unions—and I spoke now, in preparation for this debate—what they tell us is: "We live in enormous distress, in enormous uncertainty, without knowing what is going to happen tomorrow. Where are we going? Are we going to the PSP? Are we going to GNR? We're going to continue working until, in what circumstances? Do not keep on seeking. ” The timetables are the day by day, when there is a loss of support time for these officials, time for investments that are indispensable in the Schengen system, time for, precisely, Mrs Deputies, to help people who need this service, because when they are disinvested, when they do not change, when they stop, when they are waiting for months, when they do not look after who is there, when they generate uncertainty and anxiety, on the limit which is also damaged? They are obviously migrants and people who want to see their situation regularized,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u196	... who are in line, who are waiting, who do not have the necessary response from the Portuguese State. Therefore, this is weak in the fight against networks — and there is crime, and we must fight – but it is bad for those who need support, rigour, humanism and solidarity. Even to conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that, as far as our resolution today is concerned, we understand, and as has been said here too — and well! — Mr President, the Minister chooses to remain isolated in this matter. It's a choice. As if it were all right, it resolves to be isolated in an exercise of theimosia. Finally, it is a stubborn, using an expression that has been mentioned here, which, for those who do not know, is as it is called, in the North, to an ever-in-a-foot. In the North, a always-foot is a stubborn. [[PSD laughter.]] So choose to stay in that position. What we bring is not the powder,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u197	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u198	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. As I said, what we bring is not the powder. It can be very little, only if Parliament says it wants material law in this matter. It may be little, but it is a lot, because it is the essence of democracy. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-27.u199	We are finishing the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the diploma under discussion, draft resolution No 1205 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government submit to the Assembly of the Republic the announced restructuring of the Foreign and Border Service ( SEF ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and votes against PS and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's session starts at 9 a.m. and 30 minutes. of the first item on the agenda is Bill No. 770 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Change and simplify the legal system of parking and parking for motor vehicles, Petition No 197 / XIV / 2. a ( Sandra Santos et al.) — By amending Article 50. o -A of the Road Code and Bills No. 776 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Sets out the conditions for the prohibition of camping and parking ( amendment to Article 50 ). the -A of the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law 114 / 94 of 3 May, and republished in annex to Law 72 / 2013 of 3 September ), 784 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Revocation of the concept of overnight stay and clarification of parking in the Road Code ( amendment to Articles 48 ). o is 50. the -A of the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May) and 828 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Alter the parking and parking arrangements for motor vehicles ( twenty-first amendment to the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May ). of the second item of our agenda is draft resolution No 870 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Vale Pharmacia — Extension of support for drug expenditure for the elderly in need and Bill No 35 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensure free access to the medicine to users over 65 years of age, chronic patients and families with economic deficiency. of the third point are draft Law Nos 709 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Amend the environmental impact assessment scheme applicable to the planting of non-autochthonous species under intensive water and establish a prior authorisation scheme applicable to new plantations, for this purpose by amending Decree-Law No 151 - B / 2013 of 31 October and Decree-Law No 73 / 2009 of 31 March, 801 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — The sixth amendment of the Environmental Impact Assessment Legal Regime, approved by Decree-Law No. 151 - B / 2013 of 31 October, 821 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Bans the use of aircraft for air spraying and restricts the use of jet spray equipment carried in sensitive areas, housing clusters and public roads ( Fourth amendment to Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April ), 845 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Environmental Impact Assessment Scheme ( AIncA ) of intensive and superintensive agricultural projects, related industrial activities and non-agricultural uses of soils RAN, 846 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Legal Scheme ( Sixth Amendment to Decree-Law No 151 - B / 2013 of 31 October ), 848 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Change the Environmental Impact Assessment Legal Scheme, 850 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Regulates the installation of intensive crops and obliges environmental impact assessments and draft resolution No 185 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — By optimising the process of preventing and punishing environmental infringements. At the fourth point, we will examine the final report of the Committee on Parliamentary Investigation on the State's Action in the Granting of Support, in the 2017 Fire sequence, in the Pinhal Interior Zone. of the fifth point is the debate on the progress report on government activity. At the sixth point, we will discuss various legislative initiatives on the delimitation of freguesis: the Bills No. 619 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial limits of the parish of Boivães and of the Union of Freguesias de Castro, Ruivos and Grovelas, of the municipality of Ponte da Barca ; 621 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial limits of the parish of Nogueira and Silva Dark, the municipality of Maia and the parish of Coronado ( São Romão and São Mamede ), the municipality of Trofa ; 627 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial limits of the Valongo parish of Vouga and the Union of Trofa Fregues, Segadães and Lamas do Vouga, of the city of Águeda ; 653 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial boundaries between the parish of Escapães and the Union of Freguesias de Santa Maria da Feira, Travanca, Sanfins and Espargo, belonging to the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira ; 743 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial boundaries of the Castêlo da Maia parish, the municipality of Maia and the parish of Alvarelhos and Guidões, the Wall and Coronado, the municipality of the Trofa ; and 744 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the territorial limits of the parish of Folgossa, of the municipality of Maia, and of the parish of Coronado ( São Romão and São Mamede ) and of Covelas, of the municipality of Trofa. On the seventh and final point, we will have a vote on the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much and a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 49 minutes.]]
