ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority. Let's start our work. [[It was 9 hours and 33 minutes.]] The members of the government have not yet arrived, but in any case we have a file to read and it will take some time. I hope that the members of the government will arrive quickly, as well as the honourable Members. Members of the CDS-PP. Thus, Ms. Maria da Luz Rosinha will announce the initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good day to all and to all. I would like to inform you that you have entered the Bureau and have been admitted to a number of legislative initiatives. I refer, first, to Resolution Projects Nos. 837 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 839 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 3. the Commission, 843 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission, 844 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 845 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 846 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 847 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 848 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 4. the Commission, 849 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 4. the Commission, and 850 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission. I also announce Law Projects Nos 613 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 14. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 619 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 620 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 621 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 622 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 10. the Commission, 623 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops 10. the Commission, 624 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 625 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 626 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 627 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 628 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 629 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 630 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 631 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 632 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 633 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 634 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 1. a and 6. a Commissions, 635 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 10. the Commission, 636 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 14. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 637 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 638 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 14. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 640 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 641 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 644 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission. Mr. President, I finished reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Secretary of the Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore enter the first item on the agenda, which concerns the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency. However, presence records will certainly be available for quorum purposes. Yesterday, on 12 January, I received the following message from His Excellency the President of the Republic: « I address this message to the Assembly of the Republic for the purposes of the authorisation provided for in Articles 19. o, 134. o, point (d ) and 138. the Constitution, and in Law No. 44 / 86 of 30 September, as amended by Organic Law No. 1 / 2011 of 30 November, and Organic Law No. 1 / 2012 of 11 May, which contains the foundation and content of the draft Decree of the President of the Republic, which amends the declaration of the state of emergency, approved by the Decree of the President of the Republic No. 6 -A / 2021 of 6 January, and renews it for 15 days, until 30 January 2021, allowing necessary measures to be taken to contain the spread of the disease CVID-19, on which it has already been heard by the Government, which has given its agreement. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore begin the debate on this decree by the President of the Republic, whose content they know. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, you have the floor to open the debate, Mr José Luís Carneiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u4	Ex. Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As a result of the increase in the number of contacts during Christmas and New Year and the climate conditions, the number of contact numbers, the search for hospital care, the use of intensive care and the number of deaths have grown to such a point that a new confinement has become inevitable to save lives and to protect health. That is our priority and that is why the Socialist Party supports the renewal of the state of emergency and the strengthening of containment measures. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is still and always a second priority which requires a lot of weighting and a lot of balance in policy measures to be adopted, especially in order to protect the fabric of micro, small, medium and large enterprises and also the employment and income of families. its survival will depend on the success of economic and social recovery, the other side of this pandemic. It adds these two priorities to safeguard the political rights essential to the quality of our democratic life. Moreover, the fact that we are living a campaign and an electoral act for the Presidency of the Republic in a state of emergency is in itself a very demanding challenge to our capacity and citizenship. This is a great democratic proof for all the Portuguese people in Portugal but also abroad, especially for those who are in residential establishments for the elderly and for those who, due to limitations on mobility and health or, even because they are far from the voting places, as is the case with our containers in the diaspora, find great obstacles to their participation. The political dialogue and convergence between the parties, between the candidates and the movements of citizens on the electoral act is absolutely crucial. Only the understanding of what is at stake and the commitment of all democrats will give rise to the confidence and mobilization of all Portuguese for these elections. The measures announced by the Minister of Internal Administration are the unequivocal proof of the Government's willingness to contribute to remove some of these limitations, but only the delivery and mobilization of the authorities, institutions and officials of the public, private and social sectors will enable them to overcome this national democratic challenge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, assessing the experience of the last 10 months of pandemic, what do we know to allow us to look more safely into the future? We know that the country has a National Health Service that has been able to respond to the level of what is best in the European Union, which has been resilient and consistent. We also know that between 2016 and 2021, there will be an increase in the budget allocations for health of EUR 2398 million. And the examples are on the ground: the health center of Nazaré, the hemodialysis in Valongo, the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João, in Porto, the Intensive Care Unit of Vila Nova de Gaia hospital, the remodeling of the health unit in Battle, the approval of the investment for the construction of the health center of Ourique, in Alentejo, the investment for the installation of the headquarters of the Algarve health centers group, among so many other examples. Therefore, the SNS (National Health Service), contrary to false prophecies and discrediting false prophets, has been robust, otherwise it would have collapsed in the first phase of this pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also know that the State, in addition to the SNS, can count on the complementarity of the human and material resources of the social sector and the private sector. This complementarity has allowed us to contract some of the dimensions of the response, reducing the pressure on the public system and releasing resources to treat the pandemic. One of the best examples is in partnership with the Union of Portuguese Mercy. We also know that it is possible to have an effective system of security and social protection, which have been linked with the economy and with fiscal policy to protect workers, businesses and incomes. There are numbers that cannot leave us indifferent: social security already accounts for more than 2, 4 million Portuguese and more than 152 000 companies that were able to benefit from the support created during the pandemic. If, to the support granted, the contribution exemptions are added, we are talking about EUR 2446 million of social support.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u5	Mr President, I ask you to conclude your statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u6	Mr. President, I ask for your understanding.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u7	Mr. Deputies, I understand, but there are times we have to meet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u8	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is about people and their lives that we are talking about — about children, adolescents and young people, women and men, the younger and the older. It is this network of solidarity and cohesion that makes us feel part of a national community. They will be abstract concepts for the most liberal, but it is in this sharing of responsibilities that is our future and the future of humanity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u9	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u10	We know the readiness of institutions of social solidarity, and we also know that we have Europe with us in response to the pandemic and in economic and social recovery. We know that knowledge is precarious, that all the knowledge built on this reality is precarious, despite the dedication of scientists and our academics.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u11	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u12	Contrary to the easy speech, not to say demagogic, of some, there are no salvific solutions. We have very difficult times ahead. We must decide with courage, with serenity and with good sense, but together we will win. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u13	Mr. José Luís Carneiro, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this was the first intervention of the day and that it has largely exceeded its time, which, for the sake of balance, means that all other planned times must be greatly exceeded. We now have the quorum for the votes that will follow. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: It is recognized that we are living the most difficult time in our country in response to the pandemic. The lack of control of new infections by COVID-19 is putting the National Health Service under unprecedented pressure, with professionals exhausted after 10 consecutive months of fighting this common enemy. If the projections are confirmed, these same professionals will have to make ethically very difficult decisions, they will have to choose between those who have access to an intensive care bed and those who do not, at the bottom, have to choose between those who live and those who die. It is in this context that confinement is now proposed by specialists as an imperative necessity. The moment demands responsibility and, therefore, once again, the Democratic Social Party will approve the state of emergency. But more has to be done to save themselves more lives. The vast majority of deaths by COVID-19 can be avoided, so it is necessary to be aware that each government decision can be the difference between life and death and that wrong decisions have an unbearable human cost. By analysing government decisions for the last 10 months of the pandemic, it is clear today that the PSD has profound political differences with this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u15	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u16	However, if we change our course, we can avoid future confinements and, more important, save lives. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is crucial to recognize that the lack of control we are living today was avoidable. Only then could there be the ability on the part of the Government and the country to understand where it has failed, to learn from the mistakes, so that it will not fail again.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u18	This is particularly relevant to the imposition of a confinement that will bring deep suffering to all Portuguese, a suffering that cannot be in vain. With confinement, they suffer from children, who are deprived of presenceal teaching and from being able to live with colleagues and friends. With confinement, the elderly, practically excluded from community experience, have been suffering for almost a year. With confinement, they suffer from active citizens who risk losing their jobs in the face of a stagnation economy if they have not already been unemployed. With confinement, they suffer from entrepreneurs, particularly self-employed workers and managers of small and medium-sized enterprises, who do not see the light at the bottom of the tunnel. With confinement, they suffer the families of the thousands of Portuguese who died throughout this pandemic. All this suffering of the Portuguese people cannot be in vain. To that end, more is required of this government. It's not enough to confine, it's necessary to change. It is essential to start a radical change in the response to COVID-19 to avoid a new rise in cases in the coming months. Using science and looking at the examples of countries that have successfully responded to the pandemic from Denmark to South Korea, it is clear that it is possible to do better. Denmark is geographically similar to Portugal. However, in contrast to our country, the Danish have shown that it is possible to keep society open with a controlled number of cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u19	Yeah, like Sweden, right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u20	How did they do it? Oh, my God! They did it testing four to five times more than we, systematically testing — weekly, in some cases — risk groups, such as health professionals, professionals working in schools, those working in homes and others working in the front line against COVID-19, without hesitation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u22	More: proactively identify all infection chains and ensure the effective isolation of all infected and suspected citizens in good time. Test, identify and isolate. In the Portuguese case, it is also urgent to act where the greatest outbreaks of mortality are found, as is the case with the homes. It is urgent to map the homes, be they legal or illegal, and immediately evacuate the elderly living in homes that do not have adequate conditions. Ten months later, this need persists pressingly. These and many other measures were made available in November by the National Strategic Council of the Social Democratic Party. It is within the reach of the government to change its course. They're lives at stake. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with confinement, we will all suffer. Let this suffering not be in vain. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u23	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This state of emergency renewal debate is in the face of a very significant increase in the number of cases. We all know that if this increase is not stopped, health responses to the population may be challenged. The starting point for the third wave is much more complicated than the one that existed in the past, particularly with regard to the ability to admit or respond to intensive care. But we are sure, therefore, that by this data, it is more visible today than before the need for a new state of emergency. The Left Block is not against this request, nor has it been against him in the past. We take seriously the information of the experts and we all realize that there are sacrifices to stop the spread of the virus and to defend all of us. That is not what separates us from the government or from the proposal we are debating. What we do not understand is why the obvious answers have taken so long at this demanding moment. Three things were requested from the Government in each state of emergency: support, contract and demand. It was asked to support the economy and people, the sectors of activity that are affected by restrictions and people who see their jobs and their incomes. He was asked to hire the necessary means to ensure that the State response did not fail, either in the National Health Service or in the public school, or in the other State services. He was asked to request private health facilities whenever the country needed them, to ensure the functioning of the National Health and Health Service for all. in these three priorities, the government has made little and late. It did not prevent it as it should, it did not anticipate what was necessary and has been permanently pursuing the injury. That is why we have not voted in favour of the states of emergency and why we will not do so this time, because the government has failed to implement the states of emergency. Support, hire, demand. These are the obligations of the government, when so much is asked of people. But the government has not met this requirement. There are people who have not yet received the promised support in last March confinement. Ten months later, most people and companies no longer have reservations. Failure to support is to let the crisis move forward. The destruction of the economy will take thousands of jobs, leaving people behind, unprotected. Failure to protect the economy and employment is a very expensive mistake. That can't happen! Why don't you have the government strengthened as the National Health Service should? Oh, my God! So many months have passed and the contracts are in stock accounts. The vacancies happen and the government always takes a long time to hire, knowing that tiredness is building up. If one of the topics under discussion is whether schools remain in operation in the presence model, how does the government explain, for example, that the promised computers and tablets have not yet reached most students in sufficient number? Why has it not strengthened schools with operational teachers and assistants to ensure full and safe operation? Many months later, why is there still a discussion about the possibility of requiring private health care, giving this private sector a treatment of privilege, when so much is asked of the rest of the economy? Requireing and paying the cost price is not exploitation, it is guaranteeing the SNS all the means necessary for no one to remain unanswered. With regard to all these questions there is at least one suspicion: that the government at this difficult moment is not as committed as it should be to diminish the effects of the pandemic on the economy and on the lives of people. Maybe you don't want to spend the money you need. But that is absolutely incomprehensible, even more so when we realize that the government has not been looking for the money where it exists. Elisa Ferreira, European Commissioner indicated by the Government of the Socialist Party, said at the beginning of this week that no one needed to wait for the money from the European bazouca because that money is already here. Will I quote her phrase, “The bazouca ” is late? Oh, my God! The bazouca is already in the countries. There is a lot of money to run structural funds that can be reprogrammed. Flexibility is total », guarantee Elisa Ferreira, referring to over EUR 10 billion – I repeat, EUR 10 billion – of Portugal 2020, which has not yet been implemented. Why does the government not do what is necessary? Oh, my God! Why has the inevitable been so late, knowing that this has deep costs for people and for the economy? Oh, my God! The government's mandate here is simple: to support, to contract, to demand. That the Government should not fail again, in these emergencies, to the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u25	I have the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Oliveira, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The seriousness of the national situation is evident and undeniable. The health situation has worsened significantly, with a negative evolution of the epidemic that is putting health services and their professionals under much higher pressure than previously and with dramatic consequences in terms of contagios, hospitalizations and deaths. The evolution of the social situation is particularly worrying, especially when we consider the problems affecting the most vulnerable layers and sectors of the population, such as the elderly, chronic patients and the disabled, or when we see accelerated growth and high levels of unemployment and poverty and social exclusion. The economic situation is equally dramatic. The last quarter of 2020 was not a deterioration of the difficulties that have already reached thousands of workers and micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, particularly in sectors more penalized by the impact of the epidemic and the measures taken during 2020. In many cases, the situation even worsened between October and December. In view of the difficult national reality we are going through, the prospect of the declaration of the state of emergency and the worsening of restrictive measures concerns us in two ways. We are concerned that the national situation we are living in and the reality that these restrictive measures will be applied are much more difficult than they were in March 2020 and their impacts will tend to be much more serious and complex, not only in the social and economic spheres, but also in the health sector. We are also concerned that the measures that are absolutely urgent to deal with the epidemic in the health, social and economic sectors, the measures to strengthen the SNS and its response capacity, support for the elderly, chronic patients, disabled people and other layers of the population with greater vulnerability, social support measures, all these urgent measures, do not result or depend on the state of emergency and may even be forgotten or sidelined with the option of worsening restrictions. In many of these situations, the response goes through the implementation of the measures entered into in the State budget for 2021, but it is necessary to consider and implement all the measures that are necessary to ensure health protection, to do the pedagogy of protection and to ensure the means of social and economic support that are absolutely necessary. The strengthening of the National Health Service remains one of the first and main issues to be considered, which goes beyond the statement of the state of emergency and which does not find its response in restrictive measures. The difficulties are undeniable and in some circumstances they go far beyond what was anticipated. Public health teams need to be strengthened, as the CFP has defended and proposed. It is unacceptable that, at the moment, in the district of Beja, there are no public health doctors, as a result of a mobility contest that removed the two doctors who served there from the district. It is absolutely necessary to ensure immediate measures to strengthen the capacity of internment and response in intensive care, particularly with the increase in the number of beds and professionals and the use of all the resources that exist, particularly in the sphere of the State, in the public sphere, including, from the point of view of buildings and equipment, those that are at the disposal of the Armed Forces and which at the moment must be mobilized to strengthen the capacity of internment and response in intensive care, which is necessary to ensure. It is absolutely essential to implement urgent measures to strengthen health professionals, in addition to those that have already been taken, and to ensure measures such as the linkage of all health professionals who have been hired in the future, to ensure, not only at the moment we live but also in the immediate future, the response capacity that the National Health Service has to ensure. Immediate measures should be taken to strengthen response capacity not only to patients with COVID-19 but also to patients suffering from other diseases, with the increase in, in particular, the response of primary health care, the strengthening and expansion of their schedules and their capacity. We insist that, for all of this, the State should ensure and the Government must fulfil the requirements of the means necessary to ensure these objectives, including the means of the private sector, where and when this need is met, to complement the response of the National Health Service. In terms of the social response, particularly those who are most vulnerable, as is the case with the elderly, it is absolutely essential that urgent measures be taken, which go beyond the decisions that have already been taken and which are insufficient. The dramatic situation in the homes, as a result of outbreaks and infection between the elderly and employees, is at risk of even greater proportions. The situations of the elderly who arrive in hospitals in dehydration situations and with decompensations of other pathologies due to lack of medication properly is an example of a question that has to be resolved, not in the health plan, but in the social response plan and the guarantee of conditions of functioning of the homes, so that this is avoided. And there is no state of emergency or restrictive measures that solve this problem. What is to be done is to hire workers, for social security, to place them in homes, day care centres or support structures for people with disabilities under appropriate operating conditions. What needs to be done is to ensure, immediately, measures to increase the number of vacancies, in the social response to the needs of the elderly, is to ensure the articulation with health for the response of those in need of health care, whether with hospitalization, either with the response of the integrated continuous care network, or with other solutions, such as home hospitalization.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u27	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u28	I conclude, Mr. President. In terms of social support, it is absolutely essential that the measures adopted and included in the State budget should be implemented, particularly those addressed to sectors already hard hit by the epidemic and its previous impacts, such as tourism, restaurants, hotels and culture, and thousands of workers, micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are engaged in these sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u29	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u30	In conclusion, Mr President, I would say that since the first statement of the state of emergency in March 2020, the reality of the country has changed greatly. The difficulties are far greater today than they were 10 months ago; the ability to withstand the impact of measures...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u31	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u32	I conclude, Mr. President. As I said, the ability to cope with the impacts of restrictive measures is smaller and the size of concerns is higher. What remains unchanged is the need for a response to the health problem and its economic and social impacts. That is where the CFP believes that the priority of action and action should be, and that is why we will continue to beat ourselves. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u33	Mr President, you have exceeded your time by more than 40 %. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u34	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today the ninth state of emergency decree. We do this on the way to a new general confinement, at a time when the pandemic situation is out of control in our country. It is, moreover, the most serious situation and moment since its inception, in March of last year; in this all experts are unequivocal. The first question that matters to realize is, how did we get here? To answer that, we must take into account that this problem is obviously not an exclusive Portuguese problem. Europe is now one of the centres of the third wave. But we cannot ignore the fact that the wrong approach that the government has made in relation to the Christmas party period has been crucial to the worsening of this situation. And this is not the first time that the government has made serious mistakes in addressing the pandemic. First of all, you did it at the time of the excess and the wrong signs in the first defination, between going to the beach and shows at night. It was the time of the thesis of the Portuguese miracle. Where is it going? Secondly, he was wrong again when he underestimated the importance and gravity of a second wave, not preventing, not having sufficient tracking means and, above all, not having prepared the national health system to respond to the pandemic, contracting with the private and the social sector, thus extending to all capacity installed the response to the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u36	Thirdly, now, he made the mistake of, between protecting or pleasing, choosing the second option. The government did not impose a restriction on movement between municipalities, it did not propose, nor was it indicatively, a limited number of people who could meet in closed spaces without masks and the result is in sight: an increasing number of contagios and deaths. The options were from the Government, whether or not they wanted well-informed opinionaries. The truth is that the parties, the state of emergency after the state of emergency, vote here—as will happen today again—the presidential decree without knowledge of the concrete measures and their contours. It was the method that the Government chose, rather than sharing and agreeing with the political forces, the exact outline of the measures. That is precisely why we abstained, refusing blank checks, considering that many of the measures were ill-founded or could even be counterproductive, such as, for example, the restriction of movement on weekends, which led to a huge concentration of people in the morning. Others chose, legitimately, to always vote in favour and others, even with the same legitimacy, to vote against. These did - in the name of a liberal utopia, a populist radicalism or a communist negationism, that the recent opening-up of the PCP candidate's campaign to the presidentials, in a crowded room, full of people, and closed, as is evident, was just one example.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u37	You son of a bitch! You son of a bitch!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u38	I cannot but say, Mr President — not responding to insults, because 'the people are serene' — that they were wrong. Today, it is absolutely clear that failure was by default and that the adoption of measures was absolutely essential, because only the state of emergency allowed effective measures to be taken. Considering the exhaustion of the SNS and the number of contagions, how would we be if there had been no state of emergency? Probably much worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u40	In fact, it is incomprehensible and unacceptable the urgency of some parties, in this scenario of tragedy and death, in the approval of euthanasia in a hurry. Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u41	Don't mix things up!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u42	In fact, the situation is indeed extremely serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u43	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u44	To make it clear, among the 193 members of the United Nations, i.e. among all the countries of the world, we are now 7. the worst country in the world in number of deaths by COVID-19 per million inhabitants. And in these last few days, Portugal has 4. the worst world record in terms of new cases of COVID-19, obviously with reflection on the pre-ruture of hospitals. There is therefore no doubt that the state of emergency is indispensable and general confinement is inevitable. In the midst of many doubts and expert opinions, there is an unmistakable certainty: while vaccination progresses slowly throughout the year, there is only one effective way to stop the spread of the virus, to reduce the number of contacts between people. This is an indisputable truth, and it is also indisputable that the greater the confinement, the greater the control and reduction of the pandemic. That is why the issue of schools or small trade should be taken into account in this option. A widespread confinement is not compatible with millions of people circulating daily, with public transport, etc. Moreover, it is worth remembering that this Prime Minister — who is not here today — was the same as he told us in July, and I am going to quote him...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u45	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u46	I will finish, Mr. President. The Prime Minister said last July: « The closing of schools on 12 March was the essential thing to flatten the epidemic curve ». What's changed? Nothing! It is true that the learning argument may also have to do with the need for support, especially for parents with minor children, and measures such as the closure of trade will involve economic support measures that cannot be so bureaucratic. I should like to conclude by saying that at the moment more than a 'pass-back', what we need is to ask the government to have the courage to make decisions, to change its attitude,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u47	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u48	... that opts for firmness rather than hesitation and prudence rather than propaganda. Even if it is late, it will be time to avoid many deaths and save many lives. at the beginning of this year, this is our vote,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u50	... favourable to the state of emergency, in the hope that the right decisions will be made, in the interest of all Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u51	The honourable Member has also exceeded more than 40 % of the time it was allocated to it consensually. Mr Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last week, we had the opportunity to mention, in this plenary, that there were several indications that the epidemiological situation was getting worse and taking on worrying contours, in view of which it was necessary to hear, first of all, the specialists, to confirm the general perception that we were already scaling our health context and that, with this, it would be necessary to anticipate health and containment measures more restrictive than what was happening. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we well know that the state of emergency is not a common instrument, that should be trivialized or worn out or that can be used lightly, since it leads to the restriction of fundamental rights and has consequences that can also be devastating in the economy, in the life and health of people. Therefore, a political decision of this dimension requires scientific certainty, of course it was clear yesterday at the meeting of Infarmed (National Medicines and Health Products Authority, I.P. ) Could not connect with command "%s": %s. The current situation shows us that Portugal has had a very rapid increase in the rate of infection, which can indeed spread with the duplication of cases. This marked rise, associated with the number of prevalences of the English virus variant, which has not been properly controlled at airports—and yesterday it was also clear—and which can be up to 70 % more contagious than the initial one, has led specialists to estimate that we will hardly be able to avoid a number of deaths in the order of 140 to 150 per day and that we will be able to reach the 14 000 cases of daily infections within two weeks. Projections thus indicate that from 11 to 11 days we may be doubling the number of daily cases, including at the level of boarding in intensive care, including 700 beds occupied in ICU (intensive care unit), which is a strong pressure on the National Health Service. But what has been done during those months in which we have relieved the measures, Mr. Members of the Government here present, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? They did not reinforce or accelerate the ongoing public competitions for the SNS, less still trained health professionals, such as nurses, to be able to provide these care in the ICUs, and the campaign hospitals were also working little or nothing, within what could be the anticipation of the scenario that comes here. Safeguarding the health of all and of all and, in parallel, of course, ensuring that the economy does not collapse is a difficult exercise, well we know, but it must be absolutely priority and fundamental to the country. These data urge us to act seriously, with responsibility and strong civic duty, in the face of this difficult phase that forces us to adopt more restrictive measures, less than one year ago of the first general confinement. For this reason, there is no alternative for the NAP at this time to ensure these objectives, so we will vote in favour of the proposed renewal of the state of emergency decree, but this cannot be a blank check to the government and therefore we do not do it lightly. If, on the one hand, we demand the maximum restriction on people, we must also demand that the Government respond and have the utmost commitment and ambition to respond to the inevitable worsening of the economic and social crisis with these measures. We know that budgetary responsibility is needed, but we also know that everything is not worth everything. We are not just facing a health emergency, we are also facing a social and economic emergency, which has to have answers. It is time for the government not to be closed in the Council of Ministers room and to hear the other political forces, the broad scientific community, and it is also time to hear and respond to the real shortcomings in the lives of people, businesses and non-governmental organizations who are being affected by this crisis. With the State budget for 2021, in this second confinement, the layoff, we know, will not be synonymous with loss of workers' incomes and the management partners will not be left out of support. But it is urgent for the government to disburse and speed up these support, so that we do not see delays and inefficiencies such as those we have seen so recently, for example, with independent workers. It is urgent that the Government, without delay, take the additional measures for companies, that the NAP defends from the very first moment and that it has been rejected by Parliament itself, in particular the creation of support for the treasury costs of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises or the creation of an exceptional scheme for the increase of staff expenditure. Only in this way can we avoid a tsunami of insolvency, even greater than the one we already have to knock on the door. The confinement requires mental health resilience, we know—just look at the cases of the elderly who have been in confinement or at home. If it remains prolonged over time, it is essential to support people in the emotional and psychological management of this new reality, in order to minimize the risk associated with what is the mental disturbance of confinement. We must not forget that the health crisis brings together real fears, which are perceived by people in relation to what may be the loss of their employment, their health, their loved ones, among many other situations. But also, contrary to what has happened, the government must not cross its arms in the face of the severe difficulties faced by other sectors, such as that of culture, difficulties that could have been reduced if Parliament had approved the proposals put forward by the NAP. And you don't continue to close your eyes to cinemas and cinemas, dance schools and theater companies, who are closing doors because they can't get cash solutions. We must not forget that there are thousands of people behind you — sound technicians, lights, assemblies, among others — who have experienced tremendous economic difficulties since March, as well as non-governmental organisations themselves, who have not been flexible support mechanisms and cannot be forgotten. During this state of emergency we will also have a presidential election. And, despite the successive alerts that have been made, the process will go hand in hand. We're talking about a democratic system in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u53	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u54	I now conclude with the same tolerance, Mr President. We accept with the greatest nature that an electoral act takes place without having been properly planned and guarded the health of all cannot be natural and cannot mean a spinoff of what will happen in the autarchic elections, which at this time must begin to be planned.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u55	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u56	To conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are going to vote here today should not mean that responsibility is passed on only to people at home, it must be shared, starting with this Chamber and our governors, so that there is proper planning and no one is left behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u57	You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have this debate on the renewal of the state of emergency at a time of uncertainty and concern. The National Health Service continues to ensure remarkable care, even though the human, technical and even material means do not always meet the real needs. Thus, we reiterate our gratitude to all professionals who contribute in all areas for the SNS to be for all. Therefore, we must not fail to remember that the reinforcement of the SNS in all its aspects should have happened during the last few months, because it was already foreseeable that the increase in cases would arrive with winter. However, what we verify is that access to primary care, communication with family doctors and nurses is still difficult to establish, which causes the list of consultations to be carried out and the lack of follow-up of users, while not forgetting that the vaccination plan will be another challenge for health centres and their professionals, who will have the responsibility to comply with the established plan. The state of emergency was not necessary for this reinforcement to happen. With regard to schools, present education is essential, but in order for students and teachers to feel confident in the school space, it is necessary to hire more teachers, more educational assistants and that learning can happen with all conditions and with all protection. Ensure that everyone can complete their school course even in time of pandemic requires more investment, ensuring that even students who are infected or have to stay in isolation can continue to be involved in the completion of school curricula. And, for teachers and education assistants, it is necessary to listen to the requests to test, to follow up in case of prophylactic isolation, to ensure that they are not alone in the effort to ensure normality in school, even if limited in some behaviors, is guaranteed. And for that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, no state of emergency is required. In the homes, it is urgent to invest, so that the protection of the elderly, more vulnerable to the disease, the monitoring of chronic diseases and the care closer to those who are more fragile, are done appropriately. This is only possible with teams, with more training, with job stability, with close monitoring of state structures, taking care not to expose the elderly to the virus. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are failing in this central issue, because also in the case of households, the state of emergency has not been useful or has made any contribution, without forgetting the workplaces, in which the complaints that come to us are from a number of obstacles to the measures imposed by DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ). The statement released by the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security this week indicates that 738 irregular situations have been detected in 1050 employers. Which will not go through this country, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! Strengthening supervisory teams can ensure that the rules are met and that workers are defended. Once again, the state of emergency was not, as it is not, necessary to strengthen or strengthen the human and material resources so indispensable. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens stated that the state of emergency, so often declared, was not necessary for the Portuguese to feel alert and comply with protection measures. Today, we demand that health protection measures be accompanied by social and economic protection measures. At the most recent meeting with Mr. Prime Minister, The Greens recalled the precarious conditions in which many Portuguese live, in housing that does not allow family members to make the prophylactic isolation without contaminating others, those dwellings that are not energy efficient, in which electricity or gas bills increase exponentially in winter. In time of pandemic and with the country being invaded by a cold wave, with people staying at home involuntaryly, these expenses are transferred to workers, especially those in telework, so it is necessary to guarantee support for the payment of the invoicing time of confinement. in this essential issue of access to electrical energy to ensure the comfort of homes, Mr President of the Republic says nothing in the decree to amend and renew the state of emergency—options! Open... The government showed openness to this proposal made by the ENP and we hoped that this would be announced today. We will not rest, until that is a reality. There is an emergency to protect the health of Portuguese, to maintain jobs, to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, to invest in culture, to change policies in the protection and conservation of nature. What is needed is for the State to respond swiftly to this emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u59	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on the renewal of the state of emergency and we can clearly say something which is already clear to all Portuguese: the government has not been able to prepare itself for the second and much less for the third wave of the pandemic. A few months ago, Antonio Costa said, and I will quote: « The country will not endure a new general confinement». A few months ago, at a meeting of Infarmed, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa said: «If we do not do the work now, we will pay expensive in winter». And winter is here. It was brutal in its consequences, without the government being prepared for that which would be a foreseeable tragedy of deaths, of new cases, of new infections. We failed across the line, when, in April, May and June, we said we were successful across the line. Today, we can say that we are worse at the number of deaths per million inhabitants and that we are worse at the number of new cases. And the worst, we can say with shame, is that Portugal is one of the countries that spends less on combating pandemics in the context of the European Union. How is it possible for such a government, which is currently leading the European Union to be one of the least spent on aid to Portuguese? Oh, my God! We didn't strengthen our health, we didn't support those in the front line and we left them alone. We did not make the alternative planning we should have made. There have been millions of consultations that have not been held, millions that have been left behind, and millions of postponed operations that the Portuguese continue to demand, without success, from this government. When it was known that the tragedy was there, we failed to control airports and entrances to Portugal, in particular the new strain of the virus. And we keep looking to the side, in the face of a tragedy that goes through the door inside. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we're at war. And in a war we cannot have any erratic measures—one day, one day and another day—we cannot offer support that never comes and that has never arrived since March. We cannot say, one day, that there will be no confinement and another that there will be confinement. We cannot have fully disorganized presidential elections and a country collapsing while looking at this scenario. We're at war. And socialists never even knew how to handle a crisis, how much more a war! If anything teaches us this pandemic and if any lesson we can take from this pandemic is that God allows the right hand to quickly return to power in Portugal so that he can finally give the answer that Portugal needs, that the Portuguese demand and that the European context would deserve us to leave.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u61	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u62	If this crisis has shown us something, Mr President, is that the PS should no longer be here, and if the Portuguese are called again, soon we trust you to stop being.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u63	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u64	Mr. President, Minister of Internal Administration, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Before discussing the renewal of the state of emergency, it must be said, without tibias, that the government has failed to combat the pandemic. Portugal has today more cases per million inhabitants than countries whose pandemic situation has always been looked at by the arrears of the Portuguese miracle: it has more cases per million than Italy, than Spain, than the United Kingdom and Brazil. The government failed. There was no competence in strategy, consistency in data, care in preparation, nor clarity in communication. There was propaganda, discoordination and casting errors. The government failed. [[Protests of PS Members.]] The latest evidence that the government has failed is the data of the last 15 days that the perpetrators were surprised. And it wasn't just the record number of daily cases, it was above all the unpublished rise of the contagion index, which no one knows and hardly tries to explain. The Government's surprise is synonymous with disorientation and lack of a clear strategy to combat the pandemic. Here, after several periods of emergency, with the uncontrolled pandemic, the hospitals on the edge of the rupture and the professionals on the edge of the exhaustion, the incompetence of the government seems to leave only one way: confining, confining, fulfilling what remains of the economy and mental health of people. In view of this dramatic choice, it would be logical for the President of the Republic and the Government to seek the greatest possible consensus around the road ahead and to take into account the criticisms that the Liberal Initiative has made to the state of emergency from the outset: the limitations of unnecessary freedoms, the excessive powers, the lack of scientific reasons for the measures. For the most distracted, it is better to be even clearer: these were criticisms of the Liberal Initiative to the state of emergency and not of the containment measures that proved to be effective in combating the pandemic. But the decree we are discussing today goes exactly the opposite way: it does not promote consensus, rather it stimulates cleavage. It is a decree that once again expands the powers available to the Government, which introduces, or reintroduces, without any evidence of its need or usefulness, measures such as price control, interference by the State in private business distribution to the household or the obligation of telework. It is a decree that maintains the restrictions on the freedom of SNS workers and that it believes that requiring the Government to justify the measures taken is summed up in a statement of flight to « better scientific knowledge». It is a decree that opens the way for an even deeper social and economic crisis and that would be avoidable; a decree that shows that nothing has been learned and that, instead of catching up, the government is trying to escape forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u65	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u66	Such a decree, worse than the previous, can only count on our vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u67	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The most effective measure to combat this and other pandemics is the increase in national minimum wage for 900 €. This is the most relevant measure, precisely because it generates the creation of a huge oxygen pump, which is fundamental to ensuring the rights and needs of subsistence and access to housing. There is no requirement for confinement if the issue of housing is not resolved. We cannot demand confinement, when people have difficulty satisfying heating needs, food needs, even needs to acquire hygiene materials.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u69	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u70	That is why we need to repeat, successively: the poverty pandemic exacerbates the health pandemic. And this is the war we must wage, the only thing we need. I will not vote in favour of this state of emergency, because I do not consider it essential for the implementation of more effective measures, such as investment in SNS, mental health, the hiring of more doctors and health professionals, in support of cultural workers, independent workers and informal workers. In vaccination, illegal homes cannot be forgotten either. The rights of migrants and migrants cannot be forgotten. We must not forget that there is no need for an emergency in order to ensure that there is effective and immediate support for entrepreneurship, restoration and tourism. I repeat again: the pandemic of poverty exacerbates the health pandemic. That is where immediate and effective intervention is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u71	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are experiencing a general increase in the number of cases of COVID-19, with historical peaks of cumulative incidence being recorded per 100,000 inhabitants. The number of deaths and hospitalizations is increasing. The experts warn of the possibility of reaching the 14 000 cases per day and that it will take about three weeks to reduce this value to 7000 and more three weeks to reduce to 3,500. The number of deaths may reach 150. SNS is under strong pressure. The occupation of intensive care is approaching the limit in several hospitals. The postponement of surgeries and examinations is verified. The tension to which health professionals are subject is increasing. The number of beds increases, but the professionals are the same. The rest periods are scarce and, after so many months, the professionals are exhausted. This scenario justifies general confinement and does not favour the renewal of the state of emergency is irresponsibility. We are all tired of restrictive measures, but we have no choice. We need to alleviate the pressure on the SNS and ensure that we have enough human and material resources to respond to the needs of the country, both COVID and non-COVID patients. This situation demonstrated the importance of having a strong National Health Service, investing in hiring and valuing professionals, improving infrastructures and strengthening the means of diagnosis. in this context, we have to mention mental health as a sector that needs urgent intervention. A recent study revealed that more than one third of the population and almost half of the health professionals surveyed showed signs of psychological suffering, such as anxiety, depression or post-traumatic stress. Portugal is already the second country in Europe with the highest prevalence of psychiatric diseases. Therefore, in the current context, mental health cannot be neglected and it is essential that a serious public investment be made in this matter. We live in difficult times, but the truth is that the situation can get worse. I therefore appeal to the Portuguese not to be overcome by fatigue, not to lower their arms, that they continue to comply with the DGS guidelines and the rules that are being implemented. Let us do this for ourselves and for others, keeping the hope that better days will come.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u73	The Government has the floor, through the Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing the draft decree submitted by Mr. President of the Republic, which establishes a new period of emergency for response to the health crisis of COVID-19, for the period between 15 and 30 January. We are taking a further step in the very difficult effort of mobilising Portuguese society, which we have been accompanying in the Assembly of the Republic with the adoption of new phases of the implementation of an emergency state regime since the beginning of November, and which have allowed to stop the increase in contagions and the increase in cases, in the period of November and December. Today we are confronted with information that a week ago did not exist and we have a full view of the evolution that accompanies the European dimension of the pandemic. The Government therefore issued an opinion in favour of this new emergency period, marked by the adoption of more significant measures to restrict contacts, in particular by the mobilization of mechanisms to support the National Health Service in this fight, by safeguarding the fundamental principle of democracy in achieving, with full health conditions, the presidential elections on the next day 24 and by the creation of new mechanisms to defend the weakest, to combat economic speculation, with the use of this moment of fragility. We do not hide the dimension of the complex health situation we face. Today we have 92 million cases worldwide and close to 2 million deaths. We have recorded more than 26 million cases in the European Union. We have recorded in Europe some 600 000 deaths. Portugal has promoted, in the health response, an adequate mobilization which has resulted in 6 million tests to date and with the highest testing capacity since the beginning of the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal, contrary to what has been uninformedly said in this debate, tests per inhabitant more than France, more than Italy, more than Germany or more than Sweden. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we do not hide the gravity of a situation where we need to respond properly, when we are about to exceed half a million recorded cases, having already exceeded the 8,000 deaths, which we all regret. Therefore, the response is to support the National Health Service through the duplication of the number of beds in intensive care, which has occurred since the beginning of the pandemic, the increase in response capacity, the mobilization of means according to the social sector or the private sector and the repeatedly expressed will of the use of all legally accepted mechanisms, including the civil requirement of equipment or health personnel in these sectors. That is why, also here, the vaccination effort corresponds to the need for this response, and until yesterday we have exceeded the 82 000 vaccinated citizens, with clear priorities: first, health professionals and, since last week, residents, users and workers of homes and other structures supporting the elderly. It is in this context that this state of emergency mechanism provides for the conditions necessary for the Portuguese to participate in the presidential elections on Sunday, using the early vote it had so far 151 000 registered,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u76	... the triple of those recorded in the 2017 legislative elections. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This proves the organization and decision taken early and a response from the Portuguese who want to participate in democratic life. As evidenced by the forecast of mechanisms that allow the vote of confined citizens and the health conditions for those who will vote on the next day 24. These measures correspond to the timely implementation by the Government of the decisions taken here at the Assembly of the Republic on 23 October. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I cannot fail to note, in view of the verification in the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic, that the only parliamentary group that I said, still today, reiterating a lie and an offense to democracy, which had not been taken or which had been taken seriously the necessary measures to exercise the right to vote in pandemic was the only parliamentary group that was missing at the session on 23 October, where the Organic Laws Nos 3 / 2020 and 4 / 2020 were approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u77	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u78	It wasn't enough! In fact, it was absent from the time required by the Assembly of the Republic to take the necessary measures to vote in the coming days 17 and 24. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore also important that at the moment there are other mechanisms for responding to the pressure that Portuguese society is feeling. hence the extension of the response to workers, ensuring the payment of wages to 100 % for firms in layoffs, the extension of moratoriums, the extension of citizens' rights in the use of expired documents, the entry into operation of the backup support structures that have been created between the Ministry of Internal Administration, in the area of civil protection, the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), the health structures, social security, in conjunction with the structures of defence and local authorities. There are 19 rear support structures already in operation, corresponding to about 2000 beds,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... of which only 79 are currently in use. That is why, in this context, the mobilization of Portuguese society is essential, and we therefore very positively note today, again, a crushing majority, corresponding to more than 90 % of the Assembly of the Republic, making this additional extension of the state of emergency possible. But I would also like to say to the right-wing parliament, which has again here today referred to the non-adoption of measures, which, as the President of the Republic had clearly stated yesterday, did not, by any of these forces, register the proposal, nor in this dialogue with the President of the Republic, nor here, in the parliamentary debate, of any additional restriction in the Christmas or New Year's period. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More: when we said last week that the only way to limit the spread of the pandemic was to limit contagios, what we had here was the parliamentary right to talk about opening restaurants in the afternoon, opening trade all day, at the end of the week. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u79	It was easy! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u80	As was told here, in Portugal there was the adoption of balanced measures in a very difficult balance between health and the economy and, in fact, the alternative was not what Dr. Rui Rio said, in having restaurants open at lunch and until mid-afternoon. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Telmo Correia and the Member of the CH André Ventura.]] Unfortunately for all of us, the alternative was between the restrictions taken up until last week or those which today, with the new decree, with the new state of emergency, the Government will adopt in the Council of Ministers, which we will immediately carry out following the vote on this new state of emergency decree. The alternative is this mobilization of Portuguese society, exercising in democracy the manifestation of its will, now in the election of the President of the Republic, supporting the National Health Service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u81	And the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders) too! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u82	... but, above all, with a sense of responsibility that unites all Portuguese in risk prevention, for a battle that will be long, a battle that will bring us here, several times, so that, without desisting, without desertion—as Mrs Cristina Rodrigues said in her last speech,... [[Representatives of PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] ... symbolizing what is the general feeling of this House — firmly, with social cohesion, with national cohesion, we fight this terrible pandemic, for democracy, for life, for the recovery of normal life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of Members of the CDS-PP and CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u83	I'm asking the ladies. Members who are silent, because we all have to vote on the right, on the left, at the center. So there must be silence. [[Pause.]] 214 are registered, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we therefore have quorum to vote on the request for authorisation, requested by the President of the Republic, to renew the state of emergency. Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of BE.]] We have thus reached the end of the first item on our agenda. Let us start the second point, which consists of political declarations. For the first political statement by the NAP, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor. [[Pause.]] Let's make here a slight waiting compass, since Mrs. Deputy is not in the Chamber. I hope you're on your way. [[Pause.]] As you are already present, I give the floor to Mrs Bebiana Cunha. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With several days with 10,000 infections and about 600 patients in intensive care units, we have exceeded 8000 deaths and recorded daily new maximums of hospitalizations of patients, the highest data since the beginning of this outbreak and which have been growing for more than 10 days. One of the experts who has been consulted by the government had already mentioned that he feared that the number of cases could still be increasing and that if we were to stay for the 10,000 cases daily it would be extraordinarily good. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u85	Madam Member, I apologize for this slight interruption, but there are many Members on the move. There are Mrs. and Mrs. Members standing, some of whom turned from their backs to the Bureau. I'm asking you to sit down or get out. Thank you very much. Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I was saying, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control ( ECDC) is concerned that the new variant, which appeared in the United Kingdom, is up to 70% more contagious than the first and most difficult to control, admitting that it will be very difficult to contain it. In fact, in Portugal, the average number of infections caused by each infected person, better known as R0, increased from 0, 89 to 1, 2 very quickly. We all know that the situation is serious and if in some decisions there is no consensus on the level of gravity, we all seem to agree. What can distinguish us is the values and political decisions that can take place at this level of gravity. One of the information that yesterday the session at Infarmed brought us is that this is now a cross-sectional scenario across the country. See the R0 of 1, 3 in the Alentejo, or the prevalence of the new strain in the region of Lisbon and Tejo Valley. The country is therefore forced to confine itself possibly for one month, because the situation is critical and it is necessary to prevent the transmission of infection, but it continues to want to treat schools with the same measures as before, i.e. only if the person has symptoms is tested. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not by chance that the start of the 2nd grade was postponed on the return to school in Madeira. the period to test teachers and educational assistants. When we discuss policies for schools in this health context, we cannot, nor should we, ignore the professionals of educational contexts, who, contrary to other sectors of activity, did not see the occupation of the spaces reduced to one third, which could be done, for example, by reducing the number of students per class, or by most of them were not possible to guarantee the minimum distance of 2 meters recommended by DGS. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, there is no extraordinary secret that leaves the virus at the door of schools! Yesterday, we asked the Minister of Education whether he would ensure that education professionals would be properly protected, if schools were to remain in presence. This is because nowadays in schools only those who have symptoms are tested and asymptomatic people infected do not enter into accounting. We are still waiting for Mr. Minister's answer. Now in the face of a scenario showing Portugal as one of the European countries with the greatest growth of R, an epidemiology specialist heard by the government yesterday said at the Infarmed session that « if there is confinement of one month and not closing schools, R will fall below 1. If schools are also closed, the R will come down even longer». Yesterday it was also reflected on the possibility of closing only the academic years where there is greater autonomy, namely 3. the cycle and secondary education, thus reducing mobility and the number of contacts on the routes. It was argued that younger children have fewer risks and will not be superspreaders, but we still do not know it exactly. We only know that the professionals are not tested preventively and that it must cease to be so. Just testing, even by sampling, we'll know. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the event of any confinement of schools, the rights of children must be guaranteed, until we all realize that confinement will aggravate inequalities and risks of lower access to education, even more so with the delays of the Digital School for all. With a new general confinement at the door, UNICEF (United Nations Children's Fund ) Portugal appealed to all public officials to the importance of safeguarding and protecting children's rights, including access to education and school frequency, as well as the full functioning of public services dedicated to child protection. Contrary to the national landscape, the British Government, in its winter plan, says that the fight against the virus will depend less on economic and social restrictions, but more on solutions resulting from scientific progress, including vaccines and tests. Knowing that 90% of people are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, there is a serious risk of being able to spread the virus even without knowing it. Since March we have come to warn about the need to test asymptomatic people, especially those who, for essential reasons, have to leave their homes and who are in contact with other people, whether by work, support to third parties or other services, and who cannot stop. If the decision of the new general confinement is to maintain some courses of studies in presence education, an effective strategy will be required to ensure the safety of professionals and students. Avulsive and unconstant measures lead to panic, disbelief or revolt. None of these promote responsibility. We are also concerned that current data point to a reduction of measures such as the distance and use of masks. About 60 % of people have shown that they have not used masks in groups of 10 or more people in recent days. Non-pharmacological measures are essential and will be the best allies until the end of this health crisis. We well know that there is a social dimension, even related to learning processes, which may lead to the need to maintain schools in presence, but if the way chosen by the government is this, even for just a few cycles, it must be ensured protection and prevention of its professionals and students.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u87	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u88	I will conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: education professionals cannot be asked to risk and then not protect them. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u89	Mrs Bebiana Cunha, for requests for clarification, wrote five. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u90	First, three and then two Mrs. Members, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u91	So you have the floor, first of all, to ask for clarification, Mrs Ilidia Quadrado of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we follow the NAP in the concerns expressed here regarding the health tsunami that afflicts us. There is no consensus, as we have seen, between the experts on closing schools and the government will have to make a decision with the data it has. Yesterday, at the meeting held in Infarmed, it became clear that case growth is uncontrolled. Unfortunately, even the worst projections of the number of deaths were soon out of date by the dramatic number that was recorded, 155 dead. of the information that was provided at that meeting, it was evident that there was an increase in the number of cases of infection in all age groups and that, among young people between the ages of 10 and 20, the number of cases of infection increases at an accelerated rate. We must not fail to remember that those who work in schools, teachers and non-teachers are on average over 50 years old. If the authorities do not know the origin of 87 % of the contagions, how can they be given guarantees that it is not in school that happens? If the option is to keep schools open, it cannot be in any way. It is essential to take measures that protect the entire educational community. The PSD has argued that the measures to be taken must be of great responsibility, following the scientific guidelines and defining priorities, in particular with the testing of educational professionals, teachers, technicians and operational assistants and including them in priority vaccination groups. Mrs PAN, does she agree with this measure to also vaccinate education professionals? Indeed, there is a need to take a unanimous decision on this subject, which is the responsibility of all and of the government, in the first place. The Government must decide and assume responsibility for its decision. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to this House. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u94	Mr President, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, I welcome you in bringing this issue to the debate which, together with others, is obviously the subject of the day. Many Portuguese — students, parents, teachers, officials — are suspended from knowing the decision that will be taken by the Council of Ministers this afternoon as regards what will happen to schools tomorrow, i.e. whether they will remain completely open or whether there will be a partial closure of these schools, with a cut that may be discussed in 7. the year or the 10th. year. Obviously, the first thing to say is that it will be difficult, for these educational communities and their families, to manage this decision somehow known during the afternoon of today, but to prove tomorrow. Therefore, knowing that the information was collected yesterday, also by various decisions that are contested, the first thing to say is that it is regrettable that in schools, as in many other sectors, it is during the afternoon that you know what will be binding tomorrow with enormous impact on the life of all of us. Having said that yesterday, we had the Minister of Education in committee, by coincidence or by successive delays in his coming to Parliament, and what is true is that we learned yesterday in Infarmed that there is, indeed, no consensus as to what should be done in relation to schools, from the point of view of scientific knowledge. Therefore, the decision is political and being the political decision is the responsibility of the Minister of Education to have a weight in the Council of Ministers on this decision and one of the things that many of us discussed yesterday with the Minister was the need to finally be implemented a system of mass testing in schools, screening, with antigen tests so that schools that are open, whether in which cycles they are, offer security to those who are there. The Minister says that he is not with him, that he is with DGS and I ask him if he does not think it reasonable that, being a political decision, the Minister of the Guard should have a word to say and, to the limit, impose as a condition, so that schools are open, that this tracking system should be implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u95	For the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u96	Mr President, first of all, I begin by congratulating the NAP on the subject of its political declaration. Yesterday we discussed widely in the Education Committee that the worsening of the epidemiological situation and the specific difficulties in the operation of schools say that, in order for them to continue to function and to ensure face-to-face education under all conditions, urgent measures are taken to ensure that this can happen with complete tranquility, solving remaining problems. In fact, we follow the idea that it is not enough to do what has been done so far, it is necessary to go much further. Therefore, the question we would like to put to the NAP in this area of which we agree is the following: there are areas of scientific progress that will be fundamental to contributing to the resolution of the pandemic context, but there is also another issue that is within the framework of emergency measures that must be taken, one of them will essentially be investment in public services and therefore an investment in public school so that it can give the answer that is necessary at this time. Now, it is necessary to reassure the school community and ensure all health security so that all this can be right and develop in conditions. The question that the CFP would like to address to it has to do with one of the urgent questions to which we find it essential to answer is the strengthening of the number of workers. Therefore, I ask whether the NAP accompanies what the CFP has proposed is an urgent reinforcement, in compliance with what is envisaged in the State Budget, of the hiring of assistants, which are fundamental to the functioning of schools in this context, taking into account the demands for cleaning and hygiene of spaces, but also the strengthening of specialized technicians. It is still a matter of great concern to us and that it will be a lot felt in this context, especially if there are students who have to go home, for example: it is known that there is a lack of teachers at this time, because there are still 15 000 students who do not have classes in various disciplines. The NAP follows the idea of the CFP that action must be taken — and the government must take them — so that this problem will cease and that all students are entitled to what is a quality education? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u97	To answer, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u98	Mr President, I thank the honourable Members for the various questions they have raised here and, of course, I would like to say the following: we are clearly speaking of a class of professionals who are tendingly aged, thus adding the risk factors. With regard to risk factors, the NAP has clearly come to reiterate that the Ministry of Education has to find solutions for those who are precisely professionals at risk who cannot be forced to lower when they want to work. In addition, the question of the possibility of these risk professionals may be working at a distance, providing the necessary aid until, in what the Ministry of Education has fought and used as an argument, the need for consolidation of learning. With regard to the vaccination plan and its review yesterday, we had the opportunity to ask the Minister of Education whether he would act with his government team, referring to the fact that it is important for teachers and non-teachers, if they are in presence, to be vaccinated as soon as possible. We are not talking about going beyond the first group, but about being able to be inserted into a second phase. To date, we continue to wait for the answer but we understand that it is clearly a political decision and that, on the part of the Ministry of Education, all that is to value professionals, give structural answers either in number of workers, whether in relation to the structural needs of schools, in equipment, in necessary works, in strengthening educational action assistants, is essential not only to be done but to accelerate the process. Obviously, the NAP has supported not only the review of the ratio of educational action assistants, but also, in the background, that the answers that are needed for yesterday are given today and not tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u99	Madam Member, you have two more entries for requests for clarification, so you have the floor from now on Mr Porfirio Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u100	Mr President, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, I would like to congratulate you on having brought this very important matter in the present circumstances. I'm going to focus on the question of what to do to schools, at a time when we're going to have greater restrictions and I'd like to start by taking the following consideration: yesterday, we were at Infarmed. Anyone who's been four hours realizes that it's difficult to follow all the arguments, but it's important to hear everything and not just a part. For example, on the issue of testing, one of the experts said very clearly that testing to make sense has to be guided by specific suspicions of infection, cannot be made voluntarily. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] I think it was good for us to pay attention to the balance of arguments and not want to simplify what is not simple. For example, come here to say, as Mrs PSD said, that the data of one day confirm the forecasts, is to have no idea what it is to use the data correctly, responsibly and appropriately. On the issue of schools, and I would like to stress this because it is on this subject that I want to ask you a question, in fact, for students over 12 and 13 years old, there has been a difference. There were experts who said that closing everything is always better and there were other specialists who said clearly that they did not agree with it, that there are no outbreaks in school spaces, that there is a risk yes, but in living outside school spaces, that school age is not the locomotive of infection. There was also a specialist—and this is my first question—who clearly said the following: « How do you defend the closure of schools to control the increase in numbers, when the increase in numbers occurred when the schools were closed? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This is an essential question, we are here using specialists against the very word of the experts.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u101	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u102	I conclude, Mr. President. So the first question is whether the honourable Member agrees with this. The other question is: in your assessment of the risks, what weight do children and young people who are closed at home risk for more weeks?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u103	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u104	Risks to the mental health of children and young people themselves, families, family balance, because we believe that this also has to be heavy and we have not seen this consideration in what he said. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u105	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alexandra Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u106	Mr President, I welcome Mr President and the Bureau, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to congratulate Mrs Bebiana Cunha on the discussion she has brought here to Parliament today. In absolutely exceptional times, motivated by a pandemic crisis of overwhelming proportions and with very serious effects in all areas, whose extension we have not yet been able to perceive, schools and groupings have done everything possible, and continue to do, with regard to maintaining the rules imposed by DGS and vague indications and pointing to a supposed autonomy of schools by the Ministry of Education. However, human and physical resources were not assigned to allow compliance with these rules, especially with regard to social distancing. The bubble strategy has been invented, but what we know is, in general, a soap bubble and, as such, very difficult to maintain. Still, the school year began with an apparent normality. The size of classes, programs, educational times, tests, exams, evaluations, bureaucratic processes and timetables were maintained. The well-known workload added even more work to the follow-up of sick students. The Ministry of Education has been inflexible and not open to suggestions put forward by trade unions, associations, the Left Block and other parties. Everything continues in the same, only with more disinfectant, sanding with negative temperatures and soap bubbles. In the Left Block we defend the reopening of schools because they are the guarantor of many rights and support, in addition to learning, but three months have passed and everything has flowed so normally? After a question from the Left Block and many complaints from students and parents, the DGS finally decided to send an information note last Friday, allowing the windows to be finally closed. The directive came and it became possible to close. Is this autonomy? The normality so propagated by the Ministry of Education, the praise torn to schools, especially the directors, conceals the difficulties faced by the educational community, Mrs. Will the measures taken to deal with the third wave be sufficient in the face of the third wave? Would it not be right now to set up other measures and, above all, to hear who has the proposals? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u107	To answer, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Porfirio Silva and Alexandra Vieira, thank you for the questions you have referred to us. I begin by replying to Mr Porfirio Silva, saying that I have been at all the sessions of Infarmed, during the hours that lasted, either at present or at a distance. But apart from the sessions in Infarmed — and we always defend its continuity, transparency, openness to all citizens so that everyone can access the information that is actually conveyed in that space, but also to the debate that takes place — we think it is quite important that people have all the information available, because only after they have actually been able to draw their conclusions. Having said that, we would like to point out that, obviously, we have heard the whole, not only the experts who are in the Infarmed session, but also other experts who are part of the scientific community — we have, in fact, this care — because it is essential to listen to them to inform us properly. And I would like to say the following: of the intervention we have made, in particular with regard to the need for tests, for example by sampling, Mr Porfirio Silva said that this cannot be done at all. What I am asking is whether you will be saying that the Ministry of Health, through DGS and public health teams, cannot define a sampling plan. It's just that we understand that it's perfectly possible to do it...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u109	Why didn't you say that yesterday at Infarmed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u110	... and that is why we say it, in fact, we have said it several times, including in conversations with the Minister of Health himself, who we respect and to whom we make our contributions. But, indeed, it cannot be done at all. However, we believe that DGS and public health can perfectly define this plan. Then I would like to say that he seems to forget that when we speak in the "school" areas and the risks they carry, we are not talking only about our children and young people, and it is assumed, in the face of scientific evidence, that children will not be superspriaders.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u111	But will you answer my questions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u112	We speak of the professionals who work there and also of the mobility issues associated with the travel to schools, since obviously there was no proper strengthening of public transport,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u113	What about the questions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u114	...in good time. We know that it is being done through the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, it comes late. I'd like to tell you that we can't forget this in this analysis. As far as mental health responses are concerned, we value them very much. In addition, we have presented a number of proposals in this regard, with the schools operating in presence or at a distance.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u115	That's not what I asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u116	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u117	I will therefore reiterate to Mr Porfirio Silva that it is indeed important to do macro analysis, so I also appeal to him and I hope that he will not only do so to the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u118	He didn't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u119	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to today's second political statement, which is for Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The year 2021 is the European year of the railway, a year that we can say - it started well for the railway in Portugal. The reactivation of Guifões workers' train is an example that may seem of little relevance, however, is clearly indicative of the management of the turned railway service for better operation of the CP, reducing costs to the company, not with cuts in services, as was usual, but by improving the working conditions of its workers and the productivity of the company. Such measures as this, and others, such as the amendment made at the times of the West Line, which, not yet the desirable, have extended the offer to passengers and improved the connection between Caldas da Rainha and Coimbra and with the North Line, are indeed a good start for the European Year of Rail Transport, in the Portuguese version. To these we add the decisions made last year, such as repair, at CP workshops, of 27 units, cars, carriages and machines, now returned to service. These results clearly show that the EMEF / CP merger (Equipment Maintenance Company / Trains of Portugal) and the hiring of new workers were fundamental and necessary decisions for which The Greens are proud to have contributed. The recovery of this circulating material, for years stopped at the yards of the Shipment, of Contumil, etc. , it is proof that we had in our railway companies knowledge, quality labour and committed workers, which was even lacking were successful political decisions. in this context, takes particular note of the elaboration of the National Railway Plan, the result of the approval, at the state budget, of the Greens proposal. The National Railway Plan is a structural instrument for defining a strategy for rail mobility at the service of a harmonious and balanced development of the country, which will contribute to breaking regional asymmetries and reshaping the interior, but it is a plan that is also widely desired. We are talking about measures and decisions that have strengthened hope, which emerged in 2017, with the first reopening of a railway service closed by the PSD/CDS government, the daily transport of passengers on the East Line and the reopening of an international link. This turn in rail policy, in case there is no roadblocking, is undoubtedly the prenunciation of a new railway era, to which The Greens have made an undeniable contribution, with the persistence with which we have brought this matter to debate, for more than two decades, with the persistence with which we have put the trains, bringing up numerous struggles alongside the populations and railway workers, with the proposals we have put forward in this House and with the firmness that we have maintained in the defence of the railway, during the talks we have had with the government. A new era that translates a paradigm shift, in the face of decades of dismemberment of the National Railway Network, with policies that have disabled more than 1000 km of railway line, have shut down hundreds of stations and fences and numerous fundamental services. For decades, we have seen the elimination of the train as a viable alternative to transport for passengers and goods, the destruction of the installed potential of manufacture, repair and maintenance of railway material, by successive governments and rulers who, paid to the economic interests of concrete and the car industry, have turned their backs on the right to mobility of citizens, the development of the country, in particular of the interior, and the social and environmental impacts of these options, particularly in terms of climate change. Therefore, we must not fail to value the new route in the railway, which also does not prevent us from looking at the still existing weaknesses, for all that is lacking to do and for the many existing pressures to get this train of change unloaded. Furthermore, it is ironic that in the European rail year with Portugal to preside over the European Union, and when the government says to place climate change on the priorities of its agenda, Lisbon, together with Athens, make up the small group of the only European continent capitals without international rail links. And if it is true that some things have changed other things seem to stay the same as before. Let me give you a few examples. The Greens consider it inexplicable that the National Railway Network continues to be managed by an entity in the case of the infrastructures of Portugal, which does not have a « rail culture », but rather a road. As EMEF returned to CP, it is urgent for the National Railway Network to be planned and managed according to its users and their specificities. But we can also mention the impacts on certain regions served by the North Line, in particular the Ribatejo, Beira Baixa, the Alentejo and the international link of Badajoz, resulting from the construction of a high-speed connection Lisbon-Porto, if this happens. It is essential that the construction of this new line does not remove rapid rail responses to these regions. The abandonment, based on PNI 2030 ( National Investment Programme 2030 ), of the variant Santarém is another matter that concerns us. The impact of rail traffic on the slopes of the Scalabian plateau is a risk that needs to be eliminated, although the Greens consider that a new alternative for this variant should be assessed. A note to highlight the importance of the reopening of the Douro Line to Barca d’Alva, and the reactivation of its blouses, as well as the electrification of the Beja Line. In conclusion, I wanted to say that, despite these signs, there is still much to be done, if we intend to have a real rail network that works like a mesh, at the service of all the national territory and all Portuguese, and the preparation of the National Railway Plan will represent a great opportunity for the country to pronounce itself on a subject that is so relevant to our collective destiny.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u122	Mr President, you have signed up to make requests for clarification six. Ladies and gentlemen. I suppose you're going to answer three sets, but I don't want to go ahead with your answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u123	I will respond to three sets, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u124	All right, Mr. Deputies. So in order to make your request for clarification, Mr Carlos Silva, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I welcome you for bringing this up. It is true that there are very serious problems in the railroad. There continues to be daily time suppression, users, in general, in the country outside, continue not to see the trains pass. The Government invokes the pandemic as a reason for these suppressions. Yeah, nothing more fake! In fact, hours were removed at the time of initial confinement, because the demand did not require it, but from the end of the state of emergency, the need for the replacement of hours to 100 % was evident, since the demand returned and the users needed more trains, even by means of the lot imposed in sanitary terms. But if this situation of degradation and suppression of trains is felt daily by users, there are alarming situations, reported by a report by the Mobility and Transport Authority on serious and serious problems on the network, with reflections on the safety with which users are transported. Note well: of the 16 lines existing in Portugal, only 4 have satisfactory conditions, the rest, that is, 12 are in bad conditions, I repeat, bad conditions, do not become mediocre. But what is amazing is that a programme is under way to deal with these circumstances — the 2020 Railway — and, apart from the initial 20 projects, 18 should have been completed by December, but only 3 are completed and 1 of them is only 2 km long. In short, only 5 % of the initial programme proposed by the Government has been implemented. There are even projects that have not come out of the paper, although they have been promised to the populations. So I would like to ask you a question, Mr President, which has to do with the following: since the 19th century, with the exception of the periods of Spanish civil war and world wars, Portugal has always had international railway links. Mr President, because it is the government you support, does it make any sense that, in the European rail year, Portugal still presides over the European Union, Portugal is ashamed to be one of the few countries whose capital does not have an international link? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u126	That's what the man just said!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u127	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Hugo Oliveira, from the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Luís Ferreira, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on bringing again the issue of rail to this Parliament, which has not been discussed for a long time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u129	He's distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u130	And it wasn't discussed for a long time, not for bad reasons, but for good reasons. It's that there was a time when the right, the PSD and the CDS were talking about railroad every week. Now, you don't have much to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u131	It's always being discussed! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u132	They were talking about the suppressions and delays that, today, almost no longer exist as a result of the investment in EMEF, the opening of the Guifões workshop, the recovery of circulating material that had been stopped for years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u133	The timetables continue to be deleted!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u134	That's not true, sir! That's not true! The only truth that exists in what he said is that the PSD, in this matter, has even been watching trains pass! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u135	Too bad the Portuguese don't see them!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u136	But after decades of de-investment in the railway today in the 2020 railway, what we have, either in work or in competition, is EUR 1200 billion. In the 2030 PNI, the great investment that exists is even in the railway. At CP and EMEF, as I said, we have contracts for business agreements, which did not exist in CP 20 years ago. I recall that these business agreements were signed by all trade unions, which also allowed the company to work in a more demanding way, not only but also more qualitative. Mr President, I would like to ask you whether, in the face of a de-investment of decades, of the country in the railway and even with all the issues that you have to resolve, this is not really the way, if this is not a real investment that will transform Portugal from a social and economic point of view. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u137	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Luís Ferreira, the speech, which we very much welcome, of the Greens Ecologist Party in this plenary on rail transport in Portugal, has demonstrated and confirmed, in its political statement, that it is worth fighting, that it is worth not to lower your arms and not to give up a coherent intervention, consistent over the years, in the persistence of the defence of rail and public service, with undeniable environmental and development advantages for our country. He spoke of several measures that have been taken and achieved — I want to highlight the return of EMEF to CP — and he referred to several almost symbolic facts, such as the return of the workers' train to Contumil or the return of the links he mentioned, but also referred, and well, several undisturbed issues that require, themselves, a different political option, that responds to the problems that the country faces in this sector. With regard to international rail transport, the CFP has long been raising the issue of lack of funding. In fact, you have already confronted the Minister for the need for a response that needs to be given and that requires a change in the options, from then on, in the public service contract, since the public service contract between the State and the CP does not include financing international transport. This is a problem which the CFP has pointed out, which the Government has acknowledged and which is in the process of resolving. The PCP hasn't figured out this problem now, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. This is a matter, we continue to insist, which must be answered with concrete measures, which the Government has not taken and which must take, urgently. On the other hand, the structural issue, which continues to be ignored and postponed by the Government, concerns the reunification of the railway because the rail infrastructure needs to be reintegrated with the management of rail transport. In fact, this same issue must also be considered, from the outset, in the preparation of the national railway plan. Strategic planning in this area must be coherent and integrated and we must think of rail as a whole. Even to conclude, Mr President, I would say that, in addition to these strategic and structural issues, there are also, at present, urgent and unacceptable issues related, in fact, to the epidemic of COVID-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u139	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u140	That is, the guarantee that all transport services are carried out without suppression, without reduction of supply, the guarantee of measures to ensure that public safety and health are effectively guaranteed at stations, trains and in the public transport system in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u141	To reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u142	Mr President, first of all, I would like to begin by thanking you for your clarification requests. Members Carlos Silva, PSD, Hugo Oliveira, PS, and Bruno Dias, PCP. Mr Carlos Silva, I also said, from the rostrum, that there is a great deal to be done and we have been demanding, over the years, investment in public transport, in general, and in particular in rail. But there's a lot to do, actually. As the honourable Member will agree, what we need to do, much is also due to the de-investment that the PSD governments have made over time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u143	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u144	Not to mention the Government of Cavaco Silva, which, in addition to the de-investment, has still stopped closing lines. You know the Corgo Line — I know you know — and perhaps you also remember the year she was closed and who was the Prime Minister at that time: Prof. Aníbal Cavaco Silva. This is not to mention any other lines. Mr President, I said in my speech that Lisbon and Athens were the only capitals in Europe that had no international link. Mr. Hugo Oliveira, I spoke in some advances made by this government, is fair to underline it. I am referring to the reopening of a railway service which had been closed by the last PSD/CDS government, the daily passenger transport of the East Line, and the reopening of an international link. Another very important measure, in our perspective, was the reactivation, which took place in the early days of this year, of the Guifões workers' train, an internal service of the CP that links the workshops of Contumil to Guifões and which represents a clearly indicative measure of a railway service management turned to better functioning of the CP, reducing costs to the company, not with cuts in services, as in fact it was usual, but on the contrary, improving the working conditions of its workers and the productivity of the company. Why do I mean this case? Because before this reactivation happened, it cost €7000 per month to transport the workers between these two offices, Contumil and Guifões. So, just here, we're saving 7000 €. This is a good example of how public management should work and that investment in rail is worth it. After all, we're winning! The question of Mr Bruno Dias is, in fact, right, a reuniting structure of the railway must be developed. I also said it in the intervention. The National Railway Plan must be structured and there must be no restrictions and restrictions on public transport, especially on rail and, above all, when we are experiencing a pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u146	For clarifications, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u147	Mr President, I begin by congratulating, firstly, Mr José Luís Ferreira and the Greens for having brought to the Assembly of the Republic, during the period of political declarations, an absolutely relevant issue and which, for some of us, has never ceased to be on the political agenda as something absolutely structural, because the development of the railway also means the development of the country at the economic, environmental and territorial level. From that point of view, in recent decades, and in particular in recent years, we have, as has already been mentioned here, and everyone perceives, successive periods of public de-investment leading to closures, suppressions and a state of rail, in Portugal, in which the international connection or in which district capital does not even have any connection to a national rail system today. Also from this point of view, and despite the significant advances made in recent years, such as the merger of EMEF with CP or the way in which rail is being operated in operational terms, in practice, the development of the national rail system has fallen far short of what is desired, particularly with regard to the implementation of the 2020 railway, for example, but also at regional level, we know that a lot of matters have been kept consecutively behind. We speak again of the connection to the district capitals, we speak of the Alentejo Line, the Douro Line, the requalification, which has not yet advanced, the West Line or, then, the variant of Santarém. We also have the question of international lines, on which the Government continues not to give any information as to when they will be working again, while dozens of workers are at risk at the moment. Therefore, there are still many subjects that need rapid response and it is true that a national railway plan is a fundamental instrument. Moreover, since 2011 the Left Block has at least presented national railway plans and encouraged this debate, but unfortunately they have been rejected in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u148	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u149	Finally, Mr President, I ask Mr José Luís Ferreira how it is that, from the Greens' point of view, this national railway plan should begin to be discussed and implemented in order to respond to all these situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u150	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u151	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr José Luís Ferreira on the subject he brought, essentially because at a time like what we live, these investments cannot be forgotten. Railway is essential for the sustainable development of the country, for the fight against regional asymmetries, for social, territorial cohesion and, indeed, has not been a real option, knowing that it has a fundamental role to play in decarbonisation with regard to modes of mobility. There is, in fact, still much to say about the railway, but, above all, the important thing is that the government implements the national plan is not enough to talk about it. We would like to ask you specifically about a topic that relates to the modernization and electrification of the Alentejo Line, which we obviously consider essential for the development of the country, either in terms of reducing the road transport of goods, or in terms of territorial cohesion, in a region that has been very forgotten. For the NAP, priority should be given to the execution and re-qualification of the Casa Branca-Beja railway section, the construction of a variant of connection to the airport should be included in this project, the urgent electrification of the Beja-Funcheira section, promoting links to the south shall be ensured the electrification of the connection of Ermidas from Sado to Funcheira and an offer of trains and schedules which are attractive and appropriate to the mobility needs of the populations of Alentejo and Algarve. We would therefore like to know whether the ENP agrees with the needs identified by the NAP and what priority it should have.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u152	You have the floor to make the last request for clarification to Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by making a first comment on the intervention of the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party, in this House, says that the issue of rail has not been discussed, beginning with congratulating the Greens for bringing the very issue of rail to Parliament. Mr President, there is one thing in which I could even agree with you: there has been more debate and less execution. [[PS Member Hugo Oliveira's protests.]] in that, we could agree. But, in fact, in the Socialist Party, the discomfort is so great with the execution in terms of railway that it actually pretends that there is no debate, that there is no problem and that there is nothing. With regard to Mr José Luís Ferreira, I greet you for bringing this issue here. I must even say more: I agree with some of the comments you have made on the topic of rail. However, he forgot to say that in the previous government, a PSD / CDS government, there was a troika that prevented a set of investments that would allow the country to grow and develop. It was then forgotten that the Greens, for the past six years, have put the signature and the vote in the Government of Dr. António Costa. You forget all that! You spoke of the railroad in Cavaco Silva's time. I don't know why you didn't talk about the railroad in the time of the New State, this, about that and the other. He talks about the present and then he makes some kind of zigzag between what's really good and that's really bad after all... well, you don't get it. There's one thing that's right: the West Line is leaving...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u154	It's nothing! It's nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u155	Take it easy, sir! We're going to the North Line and, as we heard and the CDS pointed out here, we see that the government is disinvesting. Minister Pedro Nuno Santos withdrew from the NIP, for example, the investment in the Santarém area, which was so important. Next, we have the Douro Line. in this line, investments do not come out of paper. However, we have a lot of money, we hear of a lot of millions — there is the PNI, there is the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) — but there is a problem, which is the execution rate, which Mr. I know you don't embarrass us, but this is a problem of the Socialist Party, who lives well with it. We don't live well with that! We want an effective railway. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u156	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u157	I shall finish, Madam President, by thanking the tolerance already. The question I put to Mr. José Luís Ferreira is whether he does not feel that the Greens Ecological Party has a responsibility over the past six years for the state in which the railway is located, because you are making the governments of Dr. António Costa viable.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u158	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u159	Or is your signature and your vote only important for matters other than railways?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u160	To reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the PEV Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u161	Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block and Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the PAN and Mr João Gonçalves Pereira of the CDS-PP for the questions they asked me. Mrs Isabel Pires, in fact, the development of the railway is the development of our country — one thing has to be connected to the other. Development of our country, of our economy, with many environmental advantages, especially with regard to greenhouse gas emissions and the fight against climate change, but also from the point of view of population mobility, because this, in addition to being a right, is also an important instrument for access to other rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u163	As far as district capitals are concerned, I would like to remind you that in the Government Programme this promise is made to make rail connections to all district capitals and, therefore, we will continue to demand that the Government comply with what is in its Programme. With regard to the railway plan, as you know, during the discussion of the State budget for 2021, the Greens adopted a proposal requiring the Government to submit the railway plan, I believe, within the first quarter. So let's wait. What we want is that this is a broad-based plan. Mrs Bebiana Cunha, we are perfectly in agreement with the Alentejo Line. In fact, from Beja down the government has no plans, which is absolutely unacceptable to all titles. Finally, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, in fact, I have to redeem myself. I forgot to say that during the PSD government there was indeed a troika, but I also forgot to say that this government, I don't know whether because of the troika, if for other reasons...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u164	Over the past six years, you haven't seen anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u165	No, I didn't see anything there about EMEF! I didn't see anything there about the efforts to sell EMEF and they just didn't sell it because they couldn't! I wasn't even there that they ended up not selling it! Mr President, I will repeat: the PSD/CDS government has tried to sell EMEF and has not only sold it because it has not succeeded. If it were sold, it would have been a crime, as it was, a crime that represented the sale by the PSD/CDS government of CP Cargo. Therefore, Mr President, I have forgotten to talk about the troika, but I have also forgotten to mention this data. Mr President, as far as the Greens' responsibility for the budgets we have made feasible is concerned: none of these budgets had a single line to close. I do not know how many budgets the honourable Member has approved and which provide for the closure of lines,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u166	Investment and execution, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u167	... but now let me also tell you that we are responsible for Budgets representing the largest investment in railways, which has not occurred for decades.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u168	Investment and execution, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u169	For a political statement, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over the past few months, the country has seen the importance of a strong and robust social state. The fight against pandemic has been possible because we act as a community and as a society in which the problems of each one are those of all, not as individuals isolated and disconnected from each other. That is why the socialists firmly believe in the value of solidarity as a fundamental condition of individual freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u172	It only exists with the social state and the social state has shown its enormous strength in the difficulties we face. This has been the case in many areas. This has been the case with the National Health Service, the creation of António Arnaut and much greater of Portuguese democracy. Social status and solidarity is that we need a doctor and ask us for the citizen's card and not the credit card. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Freedom in health is to be equally rich or poor, not making accounts to life to protect our lives and all lives. This has been the case with the public school, the great social elevator of Portuguese democracy, after decades when the dictatorship violated social stratification and reproduced an elite of privileged people in a impoverished and illiterate people. The public school, where we are all equal in our differences, is the driving force of our democracy that is built daily in the classrooms of this country. And it has been so, above all, with social security. The name says everything: social security. We act together and in many areas — from childhood to old age, from parenthood to unemployment, from inclusion to income — creating an interdependent, redistributive and fair network for all Portuguese. This is a social and humanist model, always unfinished, which can only be replaced by models of social insecurity, where the praise of individualism is nothing more than the law of the strongest or the law of the richest. Social security is the pillar of the social state and it is a seat of security for our democracy, because there is no freedom in poverty and citizens in despair and misery are the fermenting of radical political solutions that exploit fear, despair and divisions. Social security has shown its strength during the pandemic, but pre-existing to the pandemic, and we have to defend for the time that will come. We therefore turn away from those who use lies and demagogy to destroy this solidarity system and also challenge those who when they are government only know how to cut, limit and market. Social security has never advanced after a right-wing government, but it is difficult to find a socialist government that has not taken any further steps to make it wider and more inclusive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The new social policies over the past decades have always had the brand of the Socialist Party and we are very proud of it. I remember here the guaranteed minimum income, today social income of insertion (RSI), a policy that is still misunderstood today only by those who blame the poorest for their own poverty. It is important to remember it, because this emblematic measure celebrates 25 years. It was created on 10 January 1996, at the initiative of our current President of the Assembly of the Republic, Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues, on the date of the Minister of Solidarity and Social Security, and is today one of the most important measures to combat poverty and exclusion, without forgetting the professional and social integration of beneficiaries. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Those who criticized her and tried to decharacterize her never ended this measure for a reason: it works. RSI is not a smoldering nor creates subsidies. The RSI covered 267 000 beneficiaries in the pre-pandamia year, 34 % were children, young and old, and less than 6 % were beneficiaries of the Gypsies community, which extremists today want to turn into a target of social rage but that we fight eyes, indeed, with values and principles, especially when they send others to work and leave their seat empty in this Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] This measure has allowed to combat child poverty, reducing it, since 2015, to 4 percentage points, but also reduced poverty in numerous families, which often on the right, are so spoken, by 12, 5 percentage points. The RSI is the most important measure of our social system, but there is more, as is the case with the solidarity complement for the elderly, which was released in 2005, or the social benefit for inclusion, created in 2017, always with the brand of the Socialist Party. Today, in Portugal, around 17 3% of the population still live in poverty conditions, but if it were not for social transfers that would be 45 % and we finally managed to put the risk of poverty below the European average. The Portuguese who benefit from these and other measures have not chosen their vulnerability, and that is why we do not give up on them, we do not give up on these Portuguese. during the last year, with the pandemic, we realized that no one is immune to vulnerabilities. No one is immune to crises or weaknesses, and that is why we need to protect one another. And there too, in the fight against the pandemic, social security has been, and it is essential. We had a strong state in the fight against the health crisis and a strong state in the protection of incomes to avoid the social crisis, with hundreds of measures that gave a firm and rapid response to workers, families and businesses. We will continue this path in 2021, from then on with the layout paid at 100 %. The social security budget for this year has an increase of EUR 2000 million in comparison with the 2020 budget, but in view of the 2015 budget, the allocation has grown EUR 5, EUR 2 billion, which shows well the strengthening of social policies with our governance and always improving the accounts and sustainability of social security so that it responds to the present without abdicating from the future. This social model that we have built is the one in which we believe, convincing even the most liberal ones, who talked about fats, asked for cuts and now want more spending and more investment, so that the hand of the state can be visible that helps us get out of the crisis. That is why we are going to continue this path. We will continue this path with the conviction that, after each one contributes according to his or her possibilities, no one should be below his or her needs, an idea that would make us believe that he was in disuse, in order, after all, to conclude that we never needed her as much as we do today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u173	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u174	I conclude, Madam President, by saying from here that, opposing those who want to diminish the social state, but also suspicious of those who have found in it a fast and transitional passion, we will be here to defend social security as the backbone of an inclusive society, cohesion and solidarity. Today and always! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u175	Mr President, the Bureau records five entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u176	Madam President, I will respond in two groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u177	In order to make the first request for clarification, Mr. Germana Rocha, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u178	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, social benefits, including social income for inclusion, are a fundamental instrument in combating poverty, provided they are properly applied and adjusted to reality. The negative effects of this pandemic, such as the reduction of resources, unemployment and the growth of poverty, have been mitigated by some social support measures, but the real fight against social inequalities is done with something essential: trust in the social state, through clear and rigorous measures in the decisions taken, because it is to save lives and families that we are talking about, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u180	But the government has been fortunate in undermining this trust, with the disappointment in the measures that constantly change in form, as happened with the numerous versions of the simplified layoff; with the unbearable bureaucracy for those who are already in a situation of enormous fragility; with the « ghost debts», which prevent beneficiaries from accessing the support they claim to be available or with the support provided by the Supplementary Budget and which are not paid;...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u182	... with the non-fulfilment of the promise to raise the value of the social complement for the elderly to the poverty threshold; with people who have worked their entire lives and who wait and despair for the processing of their pension, surviving with the help of family members; or with national strategies, such as the fight against poverty, which passed from the Government's Programme to a Twitter announcement by Mr. Prime Minister, promising a strategy to combat poverty until 15 December and of which we know nothing so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u183	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u184	It is propaganda and photography repeated to exhaustion, at a time that should be of sobriety and respect for those who suffer daily in the skin this scourge and succumb to the pandemic. Therefore, I ask you whether or not these government policies, which only run after the damage, will lead to the worsening of social inequalities and will widen the line of those who are left behind. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u185	To request clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u186	Madam President, I begin by greeting the PS Parliamentary Group and Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro on the subject they brought us today. Debating ways to combat inequalities is of the greatest relevance, to more in a country that has now been hit by this economic crisis in the wake of a health crisis. We recall that, before this crisis, more than 17% of the population was in poverty and more than 30% of the population was in material deprivation and that even the recent data that the INE (National Institute of Statistics) brought to us on the social portrait of our country are now unfortunately out of date with this turbulence that has struck us all. And if, in fact, this had consequences from the context of learning, the closure of schools results in access, for example, to food, with social impact on essential services such as nutrition and psychosocial support, and also in terms of the breakdown of income and the failure of the social elevator. It is no less important to realize that in this time when we had the social support provided by the government, indeed, there have been failures that have prevented it in some way from mitigating the effects that may arise from this crisis. There are two aspects, in particular, that we would like to question. On the one hand, the access of people with disabilities. We know that this crisis will unfortunately generate a lot of unemployment and many inequalities...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u187	It's generating!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u188	You are quite right, Mrs Deputy, it is generating a lot of unemployment and indeed many inequalities. There are fringes of the population that have an increased rate of not only poverty as vulnerability, as is the case for people with disabilities, who have a risk rate of 32 %. The NAP has argued that we should not only be able to raise the minimum value of unemployment benefit in order to remain above the poverty threshold, as should be the case with social benefits for inclusion. We would like to know whether or not we can count on the Member and the PS Parliamentary Group to follow this measure or whether, here brought to the Assembly of the Republic, it is once again to reject, as is the case with so many other measures. On the other hand, we must also not forget that young people are the layer of the population where unemployment levels are higher and that this is also due to the encouragement of professional internships, the existence of labour rules that promote precariousness. We can't go on...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u189	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u190	I am indeed concluding, Madam President. As I said, we cannot continue to offer young people highly precarious situations and have no more stability to offer this generation. We wanted to see if you have anything to offer or if you are going to ignore that, in poverty, you also include highly qualified young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u191	To request clarification, Mr José Soeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u192	Madam President, I would like to congratulate the Socialist Party Member on his speech on the social state and the RSI. It is true that we have to dismantle some of the myths about the social state, particularly about the CSR, in which some people insist, in particular in this Parliament, such as the myth that the CSR is an unconditional benefit. The RSI assumes a duty of the beneficiaries, in particular to put children in school, to accept employment and to carry out an integration plan, where appropriate, and the State also has duties in this process of inclusion and social activation. We know that there are many lies about the RSI.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u193	Starting over there!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u194	The RSI is a small drop of water in the social security budget, corresponding to 1, 27 % of it. The RSI does not allow people to leave poverty, even. No one lives loosely with an average monthly value of € 119, which is what the RSI corresponds to. It is offensive to treat all the poor as if they were a bunch of lazy people who don't want to work. It is offensive and absurd because, in fact, a large part of the beneficiaries of the IRS cannot even be legally obliged to work: one third of the beneficiaries of the IRS are children, who are legally prevented from working; almost 10 % of the beneficiaries of the IRS are poor workers, with incomes from work and biscuits that do not allow them to leave a poor situation; 3 % of the beneficiaries of the IRS are pensioners who have worked their entire lives—see the undo that it is that these people have to go to work after having worked their entire lives! — Of the rest, most are women, many of them informal caregivers of disabled children, of elderly people, of chronic patients—and, even if they have no employment, someone dare even say that these women do not work? Oh, my God! It's an offense for these people!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u196	That said, there is indeed a debate to be held on the left, because there is a huge lack of social protection, which the pandemic has exposed. We continue to have a social unemployment allowance which is far from reaching the poverty threshold and, despite our proposal, in the State Budget, which would reach the poverty threshold at €502, this was rejected by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u197	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u198	I conclude, Madam President. The solidarity complement for the elderly (SIC) is far from reaching the poverty threshold and the RSI, as it exists today, was not able, had not enough vigor, to respond to poverty situations. That's why we had to create emergency support.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u199	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u200	I would like to ask you, Mr President, if I improve the CSR, social unemployment allowance and the CSI and, above all, create a new benefit, a social income of citizenship, it should not be an objective...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u201	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u202	... and why the Socialist Party rejected it in the debate of the Budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u203	To respond to these three requests for clarification, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u204	Madam President, as quickly as time requires, I will try to answer the various questions which I am grateful for. Mrs Germana Rocha, from the PSD, spoke about measures to combat the pandemic and the possible exclusion of some Portuguese. Well, certainly, in the face of a pandemic of this dimension, there will always be improvements to be made and a path that must continue to be made. However, I must say that one in four Portuguese has benefited from measures to combat the pandemic. Social security spent EUR 2, EUR 5 billion, including: contribution exemptions; support for job maintenance; layoff coverage; support for self-employed persons, totalling EUR 176 million; nearly 53 000 management partners supported, total value of EUR 73 million; stabilisation supplement; additional family allowance provision; extension of minimum social benefits; protection of income from those in prophylactic isolation; provision and support for child monitoring up to 12 years; etc. etc. etc. It could take a long time to list the various measures and policies that have been implemented in this area. I know that the PSD does not fully agree with these measures, because what it did, long before there was pandemic, while it had political responsibilities, was to dispense workers who were needed in social security and that we, however, contracted,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u205	Did you hire? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u206	...it was to cut the CSI, cut the CSI and only they didn't cut because they couldn't carry on with your policies, because we all know what they wanted to do, particularly with regard to cuts in pensions. Therefore, the PSD, speaking of pensions and social security in this Parliament, should do so by apologizing for what it has done and not attacking what others are doing right now. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, we fully agree with you. As you know, in support of disabled people, we have the new social benefit for inclusion (PSI) and now more than 110 000 Portuguese — the data are from the end of last year, November 2020 — are already supported by this benefit. The PSI allowed increases of 25 % to 34 % in relation to the monthly life support and an extended set of beneficiaries who have not received any benefit today have the PSI. We also increased disability bonus, third-person assistance allowance and self-employment support models, approved the status of informal caregivers, established a share of access to employment for people with disabilities, both in the public sector, in the Public Administration, and in the private sector, moreover, fulfilling the Constitution of the Republic. This is a path that we must pursue and which is unfinished and I believe that we have come to take significant steps in this direction, recognized by different social sectors. Therefore, this is what we will continue to do, certainly with the support of the NAP, as it has already given to several of these measures. With regard to Mr Soeiro's intervention, I believe that the dialogue he referred to and the work we have done have two dimensions: first, to combat those who want to attack the measures we have been implementing, not to go further, but to return to the courts, with the backwardness and regression in our social model, and, of course, new ways, new futures, new platforms of dialogue that seek to consolidate our social model and new benefits so that no one will be left behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u207	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u208	I believe that this is a path which must continue on the left in this Parliament and in the country in a general way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u209	For clarifications, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u210	Mr President, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, I also welcome him on the subject of his political statement and, even with regard to various dimensions of which he spoke, such as social inequalities, poverty, social security itself, he wanted to make a few comments. I begin by saying that there are structural problems in our country that break into reality the social inequalities and the numbers of poverty that we have today, structural problems that are aggravated by the reality that we currently live in, due to the epidemic outbreak that the country faces. We are talking about structural measures in which the CFP has insisted and it is absolutely urgent that the same should be taken: hence, the general value of wages and the significant increase in minimum wage; the recovery of pensions, in which the CFP has insisted over the years, having managed to ensure a further extraordinary increase, in this same State budget; an effective fight against unemployment and precariousness, which is also, at this time, inseparable from the prohibition of redundancies, as the CFP has defended, because it is the guarantee of jobs and wages at 100%, as the CFP has proposed and defended, which ensures better conditions for workers to face at this time; and at the same time it is necessary to guarantee investment in public services and in the social functions of the State, whether in the National Health Service, in the public school or in social security, ensuring access to them all. Of course, in today's reality, the set of social benefits that exist, as well as others that have been created, is absolutely vital to combat and provide emergency responses to the situations of poverty and urgent situations that exist in our country and that workers and populations face. However, Mr President, it was also necessary to have gone further with regard to unemployment benefit, in particular by extending its payment time, strengthening its amounts and, to the point of view of the very age of the people who receive it, ensuring more protection to those who are in a long-term unemployment situation, for example, and it was also important to have strengthened the solidarity complement for the elderly and improved access conditions, as proposed by the CFP, and to have also strengthened and improved the conditions for access to social benefits for inclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u211	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u212	Even to conclude, Madam President, I must say that as far as social security is concerned, you well remembered the race that existed over several years, with the loss of thousands of workers, and that you have experienced special emphasis during the PSD and CDS government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u213	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u214	But, Mr. Member, a month ago, there was a risk of social security losing 200 workers...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u215	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u216	... and this is also not acceptable at a time when social security must have answers to the workers and the Portuguese population.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u217	Mr João Almeida of the CDS Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u218	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, I have two previous issues, one of a conceptual and other practice. The first has to do with what you often do — and other Members have already done so here today, too — when you refer to the past as a negative example of some of the practices you think should be taken now. I remember that some of the social benefits that have now been valid to the Portuguese people and that they were already worth during the previous crisis were created exactly by a PSD/CDS government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u219	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u220	There is, of course, unemployment benefit and its extension to independent partners and workers. It should be remembered that today there is only such support because the last PSD/CDS government, even with the troika, created them. Therefore, from the point of view of the creation of social benefits with both impact on a crisis context and the one we are now living and the one we were living in the time of the troika, when you have this example, you can compare yourself with the past, but, I am sorry, so far, you are in deficit. It was not able to respond to emerging realities in the same way that this government gave, at the time, for example, with the increase in unemployment benefit for couples in which both members were unemployed. The issue of a conceptual order has to do with the support and with whom it lends. A discussion that at this time is completely meaningless is the one that has to do with the nature of the providers and not with the need of those who effectively need to receive social benefits. The discussion about whether providers are public or private, whether they are from the State or social response is absolutely unnecessary in a context like this. So I wonder when the Socialist Party will focus on the needs and capacity for full response, realizing that subsidiarity is fundamental in this matter. It is that there are those who are on the ground and who are able to respond and, of course, what the State has to do is to take advantage of this ability to respond and not come into conflict with it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u221	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u222	I shall end, Madam President, with one last question. Mr President, when we enter a new period of severe confinement, what assurances can the Government give that, for example, parents who will have to stay with children at home will have effective support...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u223	Thank you very much. You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u224	... so that they can do it by keeping your work or, if they cannot keep it, having the compensation necessary for that? Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u225	To respond to the two requests for clarification, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u226	Madam President, I am also grateful for the clarification requests made by Mrs Diana Ferreira and Mr João Almeida. In order, with regard to Mrs Diana Ferreira's intervention, I believe that we are structurally in agreement with the way in which we have come. I remember that several of the measures that have been adopted and presented, not only in this budget, but over the past few years, have precisely allowed to protect and safeguard several of the Portuguese people that you have referred to. As to: we increased 3, 6 million pensions, both by replacement of automatic updates and by three extraordinary pension updates—up to 1, 5 IAS ( indexing social support ), it is true — in August 2017, in August 2018 and January 2019, and we did so to compensate for the loss of purchasing power of these pensioners during the years of governance of the PSD and the CDS. At the level of wages, I am speaking in particular of the minimum wage, which in the previous Parliament we have increased by 26 % and we have increased again to 2021 and which, if we continue the growth path we want and we are going to implement, will have an increase of about 48 % in the area of two legislatures, which is truly historic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More: the real value of wages in the context of collective bargaining was even more significant than the value of wages outside it and the number of workers covered allowed to correct one of the distortions during this period, which was the attack on collective bargaining as a way to weaken social and labor relations. At the level of unemployment allowance—in fact, I do not have much more time—the automatic six-month extension of unemployment allowances ending this year was also approved on a proposal from the Communist Party in the context of the State budget. Therefore, I believe that this path has been made through dialogue, openness and the search for consensus. Mr. João Almeida, regarding the public/private issue, I understand that this complaint is dislocated from this debate and I believe that it is not on the table. The Portuguese know well what has been done by this government in combating the pandemic, mobilising all the resources available to do so. But I must say, because the honourable Member seems to appreciate the work he has done along... Mr. João Almeida is not listening, but I will try to continue to answer you! Basically, if what has been done during the Government that you supported has been so well done, then it has had the slight problem of the consequences of your measures have been increasing unemployment and poverty at all levels. It increased poverty for Portuguese in general, increased poverty for older people and increased poverty for children and for younger people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This has been done because you have had a deliberate policy of cutting incomes, freezing incomes, but also of attacking the foundations of our social state. The gentlemen cut the CSI, cut the CSI, cut pensions and wanted to go further. It was only not further because the Constitutional Court prevented them from continuing to make such cuts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we have been doing over the past few years is in part to correct what the CDS and Minister Pedro Mota Soares have in particular left the country and that has been a large number of injuries to your governance, which we have been able to correct by valuing incomes, wages, pensions and an integrated view of the social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u227	For a political statement, Mrs Monica Quintela of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u228	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Government initiates the Presidency of the Council of the European Union under a rain of strong criticism, coming from several quadrants, in the dark form as the European Prosecutor has appointed. This appointment has sparked controversy, because in a democratic state we cannot accept—and we do not accept! — any attempt to implement justice. Every day there are new facts that clearly and unequivocally demonstrate that Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Minister of Justice have been lacking in the truth. They have done so in Parliament and in the statements they have given to the media, and this is very serious, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It should be noted that Ms. Minister of Justice said in a recent interview to RTP ( Portuguese Radiotelevision ) that she was unaware of the document sent by her Ministry and that this document was from the sole production of the Directorate-General for Justice Policy. And he rolled the head of the then director! However, this issued a statement to refute the statements of the Minister of Justice and also gave an interview in this regard. With these background, the Minister of Justice, hearing in this House last day on 7 after all, admitted that she had convened a meeting and had given instructions for the preparation of that document, instructions which were intended to substantiate the government's choice. The writing of the document is known and has no correspondence to Mr. Procurator José Guerra's curriculum. The Minister of Justice said she did not read the document that had been prepared by her services, under her guidance. The European Council took good advantage of the information provided by the Minister and agreed to appoint the Portuguese Government. Let us remember the legal framework providing for the selection, graduation and appointment of European prosecutors. As the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister know very well, Regulation ( EU ) 2017 / 1939, which established the European Public Prosecutor's Office, provides in Article 16. , paragraph 3, that European prosecutors are appointed by the Council rather than by the Government. And not by the government, as false and erroneously Mr. Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice have insisted on disseminating, in the logic that a often repeated lie becomes true. But we know the law and, moreover, it is mandatory for this House to know the legislation that is being discussed at every moment. The government cannot choose whom it fully understands, how it has done wrong and which, even above, boasts. The legal processing of the selection of the European Prosecutor is quite explicit in its regulation, which provides in Article 16. the, which each Member State designates three candidates, without any graduation among them, to be assessed by the European Selection Committee. It is worth mentioning, for the most careless — there for the PCP! — that this committee, provided for in the conjugated provisions of Article 16. o No 2, and 14. Article 3 of the Regulation shall consist of 11 members proposed by the Commission and a member proposed by the European Parliament, with jurors coming from the highest courts such as the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Auditors, advisers and prosecutors of the supreme courts and other recognized jurists. Questioning the quality, competence, exemption and purpose of this panel is a shot at the foot. Moreover, it was created precisely to ensure that the selection of European prosecutors complied with the requirements laid down by the European Union, paying attention to the scope and importance of the newly created European Prosecutor's Office in combating fraud against Union funds. If it were for the governments of the Member States to indicate their commissioner or envoy, the selection committee would not have been set up, subject to their own existence, to be meaningless and not to understand why the other candidates were going to give evidence before the committee if, after all, one was already chosen. And since no one can transmit what he does not possess, the Government cannot transfer any power of choice to the Superior Councils of the Magistrature and the Public Prosecutor's Office. What these Councils can do is find out, each of them, three candidates and point them to the Minister of Justice, without any graduation or hierarchy. of the six candidates indicated by the Superior Councils, without any graduation, I repeat, the Minister of Justice chooses three, starting and ending the Government. Furthermore, it is not clear why the Minister excluded the candidate selected by the Higher Council of the Magistracy, in a jury, moreover, chaired by the current Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Dr. Mário Belo Morgado, who was in fact the only one who met the requirement of the professional category required by the Council of Europe. But the government did not respect the selection made by the European Committee and, in the wake of applicable legislation, wanted to indicate someone's political and personal confidence. As this is not the expected modus operandi of a Member State, the Council urged the Government to justify and substantiate the choice it made, in the pre-accession of the candidate selected by the European Committee. In the words of the Minister, more fine information has been requested, but we all know the fine-tuning of the information and reasoning that has been sent to the Council: a set of falsehoods, all aimed at painting a very attractive professional framework of the chosen by the Government. Let this be clear: not only does anything move us against Mr.Procurator José Guerra as we deeply regret that the government has greatly weakened the position in which it is, with serious damage, also to Portugal. It is extraordinary that Mr. Prime Minister's boldness to come to the ground, surgically, shortly before Mr. Minister of Justice came to inform the Members...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u229	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u230	Thank you very much, Madam President. Do so, precisely to divert the attention of this hearing, giving a press conference with the sole purpose of diverting the subject, which is of the utmost gravity, allowing myself to make a set of statements that I refrain from qualifying, sending personal attacks to those who have the constitutional obligation to examine the action of the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u231	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u232	... above all in a matter of this importance and sensitivity. It echoes the total feeling of impunity. The Government lied to the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u233	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u234	Madam President, let me conclude. The government lied to the Council and led it to take a decision based on false assumptions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u235	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It's been a long time since.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u236	Madam President, let me conclude. The principle of loyalty and cooperation between the Member States and the Council was called into question. The credibility and trust of the Portuguese Government has been questioned. Portuguese justice has been called into question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u237	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u238	I shall conclude, Madam President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow and deal with the government's position in this whole process and we must take away the proper illusions and the inherent political consequences. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u239	The Bureau records five entries for clarification. How do you want to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u240	Mr President, I am replying together to the first three Members. Ladies and gentlemen, then the other two.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u241	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u242	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mónica Quintela, I would like to begin by congratulating her on the subject which she brings, the relevance and importance of it. Madam Member, we have long realized that the Minister of Justice has a total inability to reform, as she has an inability to respond to the necessary investments in justice, in particular the investments necessary to combat corruption, but this is a specific case of the greatest seriousness. And it is of the greatest seriousness, as the honourable Member said, by the following: from the moment of the choice of the European jury, it was reasonable for the Portuguese Government to agree, as most of the governments have done by this outside Europe, with the name indicated in the first place. [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] The government also opens an inevitable, serious suspicion, because it did not want the first name because—and it is appropriate to say the things as they are—is curiously the name of whom, shortly before, had completed an investigation to the Office of Minister Eduardo Cabrita about the famous case of smoking gorges. This is what we are talking about, and of course, this doubt is indisputable and unsustainable, I would say. From then on, what do we have? We have false information sent by the Portuguese Government to the European institutions. And from here we have several consequences. Don't you think the honourable Member that this could result in some kind of irresponsible theory? I mean, nobody's responsible. Someone made a paper, but no one knows very well how or why. Do you not think that this response is in any way insufficient? And there is an even more serious point, which has to do with what I and the honourable Member have already seen in a television debate and in the Commission itself, which is the Minister and then the Socialist Party and the Member who was just saying something to us: "The government has lied, we all understand, but it is not serious, because the European institutions have not decided on the basis of that lie. From my point of view, it would already be serious enough that the government had lied.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u243	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u244	I'm really finishing up, Madam President. What we know today — and it is - we are told by the European institutions - is that this lie was important to the decision, and that is even more serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u245	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u246	The honourable Member speaks of consequences, and I ask you: do you think that the Minister has the right to continue? It seems to me that it is hardly sustainable for the Minister to be able to continue, and that is why I am leaving this question to her.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u247	Fake news!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u248	To request clarification, Mr José Magalhães of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u249	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mónica Quintela, what evidence has it shown that the European Council has decided on the basis of a biased curriculum assessment?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u250	Oh, my lord!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u251	Answer : not one, not half. Nothing! Secondly, what was the method of choice used? It was based on a regulation and a law which, in fact, the PSD approved with us. It was strictly fulfilled. So the honourable Member does not bring anything, but she does a fool, I must tell you. If, on Friday night, he could still make this speech, as we have heard, and even repeat it - he repeated it twice, on VAT and then on Parliament's programme - he can no longer, because on Sunday, Dr. Marques Mendes presented, at SIC, a great novelty: he had arrived at RTP a « bomb», a letter from the Council which directly proved that there had been fraud at least. And that's how they stayed. This cheap trick did not even Mrs. Deputy repeated here in good terms, but this is more to the side of "Rangel Faction" and Dr. Rui Rio's tweets, which go back, etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u252	Are you gonna apologize or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u253	Of course not! Obviously, the point is this: to speak of a letter, to say that it says what it does not say and never shows the letter. I challenge her to deliver the letter to the Bureau. Hand over the letter to the table! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u254	I'll hand it over!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u255	The first aspect is that the letter does not mention the note sent by Portugal ; the second aspect refers strictly to the category and the course of the choice ; the third aspect is that Dr. Guerra is always referred to as « prosecuting » in the letter in English ; the fourth aspect relates to the fact that no participation in the investigation of the UGT case is assigned, it is referred to that he participated in the trial — the word « trial », in a basic translation, is even judgment of the UGT process.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u256	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u257	Therefore, Mrs Deputy, there is no reason and anyone who should apologize was the wrong you are doing, because of the reputational damage to Portugal and because of the sad figure that the PSD makes in saying that it will present a complaint-crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u258	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u259	Since you are a lawyer, say there you can file a criminal complaint against the Prime Minister! For God's sake...be patient, Your Honor! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u260	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u261	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mónica Quintela, if this intervention had a title it would perhaps be « revision of the given matter », but it is still not explained correctly, because there is not a single new element here that Mrs Mónica Quintela has brought to the plenary, there is not one element which has often been rejected by the PSD. So with the two meetings we had with the presence of the Minister of Justice...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u262	That doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u263	... and having heard everyone who has spoken on this matter already, we see that the situation is clarified with regard to errors committed and assumed and with regard to the validity and full legitimacy of the decision taken by the European Council. Mrs Deputy tells us the following: "Well, it is not the government that elects the representative of Portugal to the European Public Prosecutor's Office." Well, it's not! Furthermore, it was precisely the European Council who made that choice. Well, we already know what was the decision taken in the contest opened by the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor. We know that the Prosecutor José Guerra, who was actually chosen, was first of all in this competition ; we know that the Prosecutor, that the PSD, considers that he should have taken the place, remained in third place, a long distance from the first position ; we know that the opinion of the European Committee, that the PSD so much values, in accordance with the regulation, is not binding and therefore the Portuguese Government is not bound to follow the position defined by that Council ; we know that this Council has not excluded, and can do so, the Prosecutor José Guerra from being one of the chosen ; and we know that the Council of the European Union, in possession of all the elements and not only of the letter containing the errors recognised and that they are, of course, regrettable, made his choice. It seems to us that it is to disregard the European Council's belief that it would not have looked at Dr. José Guerra's curriculum and had just looked at a missile accompanying it. Therefore, Mrs McMahon, you will tell me: « Well, you didn't say anything here either».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u264	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u265	I did not say because, indeed, there is nothing new to bring about in relation to what I just said, but there was also nothing new in what you said here, because you basically repeated what you had already said at the Commission meeting where you were the Minister of Justice. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u266	In response to these three requests for clarification, Mrs Monica Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u267	Madam President, thank you very much. Mr Telmo Correia, Mr José Magalhães and Mr António Filipe asked the questions. On the web, Mr President, I understand, and we all know why. In general, it is clear that the Council of the European Union has accepted Portugal's indication on the basis of the false assumptions made in that false document. [[Exactly!]] [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u268	We've all seen this in an RTP program! I agree with the honourable Member's challenge and I will bring to the Bureau the documents which have been attached and shown on television. Don't try to divert attention, because that doesn't suit you! What is at stake here is the fact that the Council of Europe has only accepted the sent appointment of the Portuguese Government because of the wrong information that has been sent.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u269	It was the Council of Europe!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u270	It's clearly strung, the lapses have been strung!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u271	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u272	This has been every cockroach, every worm! First, the Minister did not know the letter; then, after all, the letter had already been made following a meeting; then, then, the letter sent was no longer relevant and came to the Minister and the Prime Minister said that the lapses were irrelevant and that they had not taken any importance at all. We have now come to know that the Council has accepted the appointment of this prosecutor, rather than the pretérida, on the basis of the leveraged curriculum, or rather, was not the curriculum that was leveraged, was the letter sent by the Ministry of Justice. Mr Telmo Correia, I answer you that the political illusions inherent in this must be taken away and you must understand why Mr. Prime Minister lied, why the Minister of Justice lied and why a feeling of impunity is reigning. Justice is a pillar of the democratic rule of law and cannot be instrumentalized.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u273	You're not right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u274	But in the international bodies, in Europe, the various groups have already questioned Ursula von der Leyen to find out if it is possible and if it is accepted that the principles of cooperation of the Union are thus called into question, the principles of loyalty, truth and trust in the Portuguese State. Is it acceptable for a State, which, above all, will now preside over the European Union, to lie with all the letters, black and white, sending an evading document of falsities?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u275	Show the letter! Show the letter!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u276	Just read the letter and the foundation sent — don't come with these noise strategies! — to understand that the Council only accepted it because it understood that the selected prosecutor, the political commissioner chosen by the Portuguese Government, had better conditions and more qualities. Unfortunately, Mr. Procurator does not possess these qualities. So this is the truth! Mr. Prime Minister lied, Mr. Justice Minister lied. Would you like more, Mr. Deputies? Would you like more?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u277	I do! I want the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u278	You don't think it's serious?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u279	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u280	I shall conclude, Madam President, but the other parliamentary groups have been more tolerant.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u281	You have also used more time in your political statement, as you can see from the table. So please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u282	Thank you, Madam President. Mr António Filipe, I can only suggest that you read the regulation carefully. I'm available to read it with you e.g. to clarify any doubts you have. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u283	Ah! That's beautiful!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u284	For a request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u285	Mrs. Deputy, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Monica Quintela, the position of the NAP in this case of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is already clear, particularly in the context of the hearing. Of course, we have all come out very little clear of this hearing that happened with the Minister. In fact, there are several doubts that have continued to appear in the air and we have followed some of the concerns that you have had the opportunity to express today. I cannot fail to comment too — we have heard today talking about'reputable damage' to the country — which, of course, cases like this mark a reputational damage to the country, not because we are here to examine what has happened but, yes, precisely because there was a set of matters which constitute falsehoods and which the Minister herself assumed. Sir, I can't help but tell you!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u286	Read the letter from the Council!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u287	The Minister herself assumed, in this House of the Republic, that this constituted a falsehood and it is very surprising that we see it today twisting what the Minister has assumed here. This is a serious case, just as other cases have been serious, particularly in the SEF itself, which undermine the confidence that the Portuguese have to have in a rule of law. Therefore, Mrs. Member, and not just for these reasons, for us, it is very clear that there was an attempt to remove Ms.Ana Carla Almeida. We must not fail to mention that, in a country where gender equality is so often challenged, until someone's curiosity, for his curriculum merit, has been named and then removed to appoint a man. In fact, once again, there is no merit here!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u288	Where's that going? Where's this going?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u289	In fact, there were errors that pushed the curriculum of José Guerra, translating into an official position of the Portuguese Government and that effectively conditioned this appointment. This position, in our view, does not contribute to the dignity that must exist of political power and also demonstrates some bad practices that are not recent. Mrs Deputy, let me tell you the truth: these bad practices are also dragged from the central block. Here you come, and although you agree with much of what you said, we can't help but ask you what the PSD, the biggest party in the opposition, will do in this regard. Are you going to promote any legislative initiatives? We haven't heard you mention this. Will you somehow try to strengthen the issues around nominations for high political positions? We didn't hear you about that.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u290	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u291	Madam President, I will conclude by now. When necessary, the PSD is quick to give its hand to the PS in some way to go back to the progress we have made in our democracy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in these questions it is worth knowing what you are going to do and what solutions you can contribute to this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u292	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u293	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Monica Quintela, I welcome you. Madam Member, I was told that the PSD was going to make a political statement on the state of justice in Portugal and I thought: 'Well, let's talk about the precariousness and social protection of lawyers; let's talk about disrespect for the professional dignity of judicial officials; let's talk about the lack of investment and about the physical and technical conditions of the functioning of the courts; let's talk about the imperative of the next justice that is to be met; let's talk about the deterioration of the conditions of the operation of the prison system.' Nothing! I was, in fact, outraged by the source that gave me this news, because I was deceived. This statement was not in any way about the state of justice, but it was about a case. In fact, the PSD now has this approach to national policy: it speaks of cases. It is a strategy that the PSD has chosen and has all legitimacy to do, but I believe it is not a great help to improve the state and situation of the country. Mrs Mónica Quintela's intervention was in some way a downward review of the oracle of Dr. Marques Mendes. [[PS laughter.]] That was a little bit what happened here and, in fact, I believe that this characterizes it very well. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see what we already know. We know that there has been a political choice on the part of the government — very true. We know that the government had all the legitimacy to do so — very true. We know that this political choice by the government has added responsibility to the government, which should have led the process without any problems - we know that. We also know that the process was all but what it was supposed to have been, because it had a very relevant component, which is the document that you mentioned here. Therefore, we know that the Minister, at the hearing she had with us, clearly recognized her responsibilities, personal and political, in what happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u294	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u295	We also know that the stain remains. We know! All this is bad, but even worse, of course, is the completely uncontrolled reaction by Mr. Prime Minister, and worse is the reaction of the PSD, totally uncontrolled also, to the uncontrolled reaction of the Prime Minister. That's bad! Mrs. Monica Quintela, this is all we already knew.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u296	Mr. Deputies, you must conclude!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u297	Mr President, I will conclude with a question whose answer will be 'yes' or 'no'. Do you have Mrs Mónica Quintela and the PSD Parliamentary Group have any new facts on this case which should be brought to Parliament's attention? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u298	In response to these requests for clarification, Mrs Monica Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u299	The Council's letter is missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u300	Madam President, I thank Mrs Inês de Sousa Real and Mr José Manuel Pureza. I agree with much of what Mrs Inês de Sousa Real here mentioned and disagreed, at all, about the issue of the central bloc's operation, because the PSD has always been on the front line, obviously, against this situation and against this appointment which seeks to instrumentalize justice. We already know that the European Prosecutor will then, on his own, indicate his delegated prosecutors. In fact, in addition to the web behind us, we are at serious risk of having a new web here, so created. [[PS Deputy Protests Urban Constance of Sousa.]] With regard to this, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the PSD is absolutely available and will look very closely at the appointment... Continuation of PS Deputy Protests Urban Constance of Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u301	Be quiet, Mrs. Member, please interrupt me! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u302	Mrs Mónica Quintela, I apologize for interrupting but you can't be silenced by your colleagues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u303	I'm sorry, I wasn't sending you to shut up. I just can't talk! You're asking me directly...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u304	Don't! I'm sorry but I said clearly: « Be silent, Madam Member! Do not keep on seeking. ” Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u305	Very well, Madam President. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, we are absolutely available to contribute and to make this state of things stop repeating. That's what we've been doing. The state of justice in Portugal, Mr. José Manuel Pureza, is a true frame of misery.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u306	So why didn't you talk about it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u307	The administrative courts don't work; the prison system has put the prisoners out here to avoid COVID-19 but are the prisons full of COVID!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u308	Looks like Ventura!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u309	The investigations are stopped, the experts are not going, the deadlines are not working, the courts do not have rooms to work! All of this we know. But Mr President — and this is not a 'case policy' — in view of this serious situation, in which a European Public Prosecutor's Office is set up, where the Portuguese State had to go up to the rest of the Member States, a shameful appointment has been made — the word is even this and I repeat — that shames the country. The same is said about the way the process was done. It is clear that the state of justice in Portugal is this, and it is this state that we cannot accept. I repeat, it is this state that we cannot accept, in any way. Mr Deputy, who says: "We know that a political choice has been made. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u310	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u311	You think that's okay? Oh, my God! He says he had no legitimacy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u312	I had, I had!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u313	I had, I had!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u314	... says that the process was not correct, and does it conform? Oh, my God! Sir, you think it's all wrong...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u315	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude and listen to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u316	...is it okay? Oh, my God! We don't get along. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u317	Madam Member, there are protocol rules, regulations, in this House, and when those who are presiding over the session say to conclude, at least the honourable Member says « conclusion already », it gives a justification to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u318	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u319	Mr. José Magalhães, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u320	It is for questioning the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u321	What's the point? About the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u322	Mr President, this is actually a request. Since Mrs Mónica Quintela did not submit the letter from the Council she promised to present, we would like to ask her to distribute a short text that fulfills this mission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u323	Thank you very much, Mr President, it will be distributed. For a political statement, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u324	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The new declaration of the state of emergency brings the anguish of the return to a confinement which will have the consequences that we all already know. We are still paying dearly the bill of the previous confinement, the economic invoice, the social invoice and the pedagogical invoice, and today it is clear that the consequences of the pandemic crisis have not all affected the same. In October, Prof. Carmo Machado asked her secondary students to testify about the period of confinement. The answers confirmed their worst fears: the experience was more traumatic than expected. Let us look at some of these testimonies. Ana wrote: « The confinement was the most extensive period of my life. It was weeks that seemed to take months, days that seemed weeks, hours that passed very slowly. Do not keep on seeking. ” Clara wrote: “My initial plans inevitably ended in tiredness and discouragement. And then the depression came and the despair came. Do not keep on seeking. ” Another student confirms: “I won’t lie. At the beginning of the confinement, I thought I was going to follow all my plans, but I began to isolate myself and ‘stress myself’ with everything around me. Online classes left me more worn out than a whole day of present classes. Do not keep on seeking. ” In the end, Prof. Carmo Machado reports that Ana continues to suffer from the effects of isolation and still has difficulties in controlling anxiety. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the balance of the effects of confinement on children and young people is very clear and consensual. The risk of diverting students from schools again is that social inequalities, mental health problems, definitive losses in learning and emotional and intellectual development, unequal access to distance teaching and the reduction of social responses against hunger and poverty, with less specialized follow-up for inclusion. in these ages, there are learnings that are not suspended. They're late, or they're just lost. It is true that the consequences are different according to the age and context of the students, but the impacts are transversal and extend to families, many of them in confinement and telework. The government must do everything possible to prevent students from being confined to their homes again. Schools have been safe throughout this school year. It is not to them that the third wave is due, but it is now called for an increased effort to keep them safe. Therefore, this is the time to send one of the strongest signs that can come out of Parliament: the recognition that education professionals integrate the front line of essential services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u325	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u326	... especially teachers, specialist technicians and operational assistants who are in close and direct contact with students. The State budget for 2020, on a proposal from the Left Block, required the Government to increase the ratio of helpers until June. However, summer passed and the doorkeeper was not reviewed. Only in September was there announced a reinforcement of 1500 temporary auxiliaries and had already elapsed the first period when the door was finally reviewed. These 3,000 new employees have not yet arrived at the schools. In April, the Prime Minister promised that in September each student would have a computer, but by the end of the first period only 100 000 were distributed. The Government has just announced 'for all' in September, to distribute only 10 % in December. At the end of last school year, we brought to Parliament the proposal for a reduction in the number of students per class, adjusting school hours and providing them with the necessary staff and equipment. As a rule, the classes were not reduced and an investigation by FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers) revealed that there were more classes that increased than those that decreased the number of students. throughout the year, we warned about the lack of teachers, which is structural and would worsen with the pandemic. at this moment, there are students without classes and there are not enough teachers in schools to accompany students who go home in prophylactic isolation. The 3300 teachers announced by the government for tutoring correspond to less than one per school. In addition, the Government continues to offer teachers the most precarious hours incomplete, with wages sometimes below the minimum wage and without any support for travel. In December, on a proposal from the Left Block, Parliament approved free sampling in schools, but the Minister of Education and the Government continue to hesitate to carry out their surveys. The application of these surveys should of course be generalized between teaching and non-teaching staff. Finally, it was requested clarity and uniformity of procedures to deal with positive cases in schools, but the public health teams were not strengthened to make this follow-up necessary to deal with the third wave. We want to keep schools open and, to that end, we must apply what we learn from experience. Schools cannot stay behind in government concerns. To ensure that they do not close and that presenceal education is successful, it is necessary to act quickly. Yesterday, a director told me: "We are going to war, we are warriors, but give us weapons to fight the pandemic. Do not keep on seeking. ” That is what we demand, that the government not leave the schools unarmed in response to the third wave of the pandemic and guarantee the means and people to take care of the fundamental: the future of our children and our young people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u327	Mrs. Joana Mortágua...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u328	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u329	Mr Adam Silva, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u330	Madam President, I am very sorry, but I have to ask you, Ex.A., because V. Ex. sent her...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u331	Mr President, I did not say the reason for the question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u332	The reason is the distribution of the document that has to do with the European prosecutor, with false information. [[We are already in another debate!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u333	I know we are, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know we are!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u334	Mr. José Magalhães has left for now to do this scene!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u335	Mr. José Magalhães asked you to distribute a document and Mr. Exa sent you to distribute it. Madam President, I am absolutely sure that you have certainly not read this document.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u336	Mr President, it was not me who sent me to distribute and obviously did not read the document.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u337	Ah! Well, I thought so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u338	He was a member of the Bureau...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u339	Well, it seemed to me, Madam President, that it wasn't you. It's just...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u340	Mr. José Magalhães has left for now to do this scene!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u341	Mr. Porfirio Silva, will you excuse me? It is not worth any kind of "mouth" trail.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u342	Sir, please go straight to the matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u343	It is that, if the system established through this document becomes a rule of operation of this plenary, then the PSD and the other parliamentary groups, under a certain circumstance, ask you to distribute interpretative texts, not signed — not even if you know who this text is — so that Members, reading them, can somehow make a wrong interpretation of things that are uncomfortable. in this case, they are uncomfortable to the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u344	Sir, you got it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u345	I'm done now, Madam President. I therefore ask you to withdraw this document immediately. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u346	After the document has come properly signed and objectively written, the President may, if necessary, send it out. Thank you very much. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u347	Sir, you got it. Thank you very much. I said that five Members signed up to request clarification from Mrs Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u348	But does it remove the distribution of the document or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u349	She informed the Bureau that she wanted to respond first to a group of three requests for clarification and then to the other two. To make a request for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u350	Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Joana Mortágua for bringing this issue back, following the NAP, which only proves that this is indeed the subject of the moment. Madam Member, I would like to begin by saying that neither CDS nor anyone wants to close schools, like nobody wants to close restaurants, cafes, hairdressers, shops and other services. But it is also true that no one wants to see hospitals broken down, without place and without conditions to treat the patients they need. It is this balance that we are talking about today, that difficult balance, and the question is this: if it is necessary to send students home, to teach at a distance, from the very ones that are most spoken about, who are high school students, how can you guard this decision and how can you mitigate those effects that you have so well described? I would also like to remind you that, as the honourable Member has said, the words of the Prime Minister on 9 April. See how ironic fate is! Mr Prime Minister said: « Whatever happens, at the beginning of the school year all students will have a computer to ensure access to digital transition. Do not keep on seeking. ” Chance of luck, even an accident for everyone, here we are in the circumstance that exactly wanted to prevent. We are probably going to have to send students home and not, it is not guaranteed that all students who need them will have a computer, even because, as Mrs Deputy said and is of general knowledge, of a million computers promised in September, about 100 000 have been distributed. I ask you, Madam Member, if this situation has to happen, if you have to be sent home to students, from the beginning of high school, students who will have to take exams, very likely, at the end of this school year and who, therefore, really have an increased need to maintain proximity with their teachers, do you agree that you can say that Mr. Prime Minister has failed, that the government has failed to meet the conditions necessary to guarantee distance education in times of pandemic?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u351	For a request for clarification, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u352	Madam President, I begin by congratulating Mrs Joana Mortagua on the subject she has brought. For the PCP, it is necessary to fight fear and affirm the hope that it is possible to continue life beyond confinement and the pandemic with responsibility, which cannot be limited to individual responsibility. There has to be a collective responsibility and it is the government that has to promote measures for it to happen, ensuring the adoption of urgent solutions, such as effective strengthening of public services, particularly public school. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, the CFP considers that it is necessary to ensure all the conditions of health safety so that present education, yes, takes place, because it is important and is incontrovertible, and direct contact between the student and the teacher is irreplaceable. But more than ever, it is urgent to solve problems that are not now, come from behind and that have contributed to make everything worse in an exponential way in schools, which still have given a very big answer, taking into account the challenge they face. Emergency measures cannot therefore be directed solely to restrictive measures, they must consider such objective needs that life must continue to be secure in schools. I therefore ask you clearly whether it would not be essential at this time for the Government to take all the measures necessary to strengthen the number of missing workers in schools, beginning with, for such a basic thing, already planned and approved in the State budget, such as the strengthening of 5000 auxiliaries and administrative officers, whose recruitment to be made by the end of the first quarter — we were aware yesterday at the regimental hearing — is clearly late. As for us, this cannot be so, because they are urgent, taking into account the cleaning and hygiene tasks of schools. Therefore, more than ever, the contracting procedure needs to be streamlined. We are also really concerned — we are accompanying this concern that has already been identified — with the lack of teachers: 15 000 students still without classes, in those circumstances where many more can go home because of the moment we are going through, said, and that is the question we have left, the need of the government also to intervene on this subject and take action so that there are no teachers in need. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u353	For clarifications, Mrs Cláudia André of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u354	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by greeting Mrs Joana Mortágua for bringing the issue of education to debate, because the big issue of today concerns the possible closure of schools. Experts are unanimous when they say that students up to the age of 12 should continue in school, the position the PSD accompanies. Regarding the other levels of education, the PSD argues that students in high school and higher education should be confined, considering the severity of the epidemiological situation. We are concerned, however, that the inequalities and difficulties encountered in April remain. The accessibility of students and teachers to digital media remains reduced, as in April. Despite the promise, the fact is that today, the overwhelming majority of students, teachers and schools continue without computers, with low network coverage and no specific training. We are concerned that confined or risk students do not have the guarantee of personalised support for their needs and we are concerned that risk teachers do not see the possibility of teaching from their homes either. But what we are most concerned about is the fact that the epidemiological situation is serious and, despite this, no additional measures are seen for students, teachers or non-teachers in schools. There is no test, nor is there any priority in vaccination. Schools and all their professionals deserve a « brave! » Yes, even more worthy because they have put an end to the failings of the Ministry, safeguarding, within the many limitations, the interests of students and their families. The PSD accompanies the Left Block in the recognition that education professionals integrate the front line in the fight against pandemic and that education cannot stay behind in the pandemic, taking into account our students. Our question for the Left Block is simple: do you follow the PSD position and consider, like the PSD, that the government has completely failed in response to the shortcomings of schools, students and education professionals? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u355	In response to the three requests for clarification, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u356	Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, Mrs Mesquita and Mrs Cláudia André. We all want to prevent students from having to confine themselves. We already know that, if it is necessary for schools not to have present education, the priority is for younger ones, those who lose more learning and whose loss has more consequences. We know today that the students who moved to the 2nd. the year is with learning levels of 1. the year, which causes very great damage to your learning, and we will try to prevent everyone from having to go home, so we will try to keep everyone going to school. Before confinement, there is still the possibility, if necessary, of a mixed teaching, before moving to non-presental teaching. But the aim must be to prevent students from having to go home, whatever their age, and above all to ensure that students do not have to go home because the government has not done everything possible to ensure that there are security conditions in schools. That's what we agree with. If there is anything that has been proved during this period, the government has gone after the damage in terms of strengthening employees and teachers. And here, we certainly agree. I also agree with Mrs Ana Mesquita: The government spent the whole summer without updating the portfolio of ratios that would allow more operational assistants to be placed in schools and to which it was bound by the 2020 State Budget. The government did not anticipate the need for an increase in the number of teachers, not only for tutoring and for the follow-up of students who had difficulties and delays in their learning, but also for the increase in the number of teachers, the existence of teachers in the risk group, as was said here, and that it should be considered the possibility of these teachers being able to work from home and also for the follow-up, which will be intensified, of students who are in prophylactic isolation. The existence of a case in a school does not mean that there is an outbreak, but there must be a quite articulated and already very careful scheme, in which students who have to go home can do so and do not stop being accompanied. Schools at the moment do not have the capacity to make such follow-up.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u357	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u358	I will finish, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u359	I'm sorry, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u360	We receive e-mails from parents to say: « Prophylactic isolation means that my son is 15 days away from school». And this can't be allowed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u361	Madam Member, I apologize for interrupting you, but I am aware that you still have time. It is that I was thinking about the two minutes each Member has to make the request for clarification and not in time for those who give the answers together. Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u362	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Joana Mortágua, I would like to congratulate you on allowing us to continue to debate this issue. As a result of the NAP's political statements, it is important that we have a more in-depth discussion here. I would therefore like to ask you a few questions. We are facing a scenario of high transmissibility of this virus. I was just told by the Member of the Socialist Party that if we look at what the data were and compare them with the period when the schools were closed at the end of 1. the period, therefore for leisure time, these data continued to increase. I would like to recall that we were only able to do this reading in the first week of January, compared to the period in which there were still classes. But that is not what is actually at issue. What I would like to know is about three very specific questions. First: considers that those education professionals who integrate the risk groups, if they wish, should be able to work remotely, supporting the pedagogical activity through the necessary digital means, etc. to do work that also matters so that students can consolidate learning? Second : considers that, in view of the return to school, the continent should also have done the same thing as in Madeira, i.e. postpone the beginning of the 2nd. the period to be able to test all professionals before returning to school? Third question: does the NAP agree with what it said yesterday to the Minister of Education, i.e. that it should fight for the protection of all education professionals and thus ensure that a review is made to the vaccination plan — that is, of course, if these professionals have to continue in the present regime?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u363	Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u364	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we decide whether or not schools will close. And, indeed, this is the big issue of the day and it is undeniable that we can also discuss it here, as we can actually verify by the political statements of the Left Block and the PAN. In fact, today we are faced with this difficult balance between public health and the right to education for all young people. We are having this discussion on 13 January 2021 in the molds in which we are having it due to two major issues: firstly, thanks to the broad consensus that schools should only close in the last resort and, secondly, that this consensus is part of the evaluation that, despite all this terrible pandemic, schools are in fact a safe space, safe enough for us to be able to figure out whether they should continue to be open or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u365	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u366	However, contrary to what has been said at the time, today we can see that the guidelines produced by the Ministry and the Directorate-General for Health were not only of great use, but also sufficiently flexible and adequate for us to have 1. the period with the normality possible, taking into account the circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u367	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u368	We have seen that the return to the presence, although not entirely, at the end of the last period, has been successful, we have seen that national examinations have been a significant success in the context of difficulties experienced, but we have also been able to outline a school year — this school year — which included a plan A, a plan B and a plan C, in order to adapt precisely to the impossible situations like the one we live in. There is indeed a set of efforts to train school communities so that we are more prepared today, not only at the level of risk mitigation measures, of pedagogical guidelines produced, but also at the level of technical training. We therefore strengthened the education budget, with this State budget for 2021, by 7% but also that of higher education institutions by 6%. Mrs Joana Mortágua, the big issue that is being raised today is precisely this which I listed at the beginning of my speech: whether schools close or not. In fact, it has already been mentioned here by the Socialist Party that the contagions increased precisely when the schools closed. If, in fact, this must not be an element...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u369	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u370	I conclude, Madam President. I would ask you if you do not think that this is indeed an important reflection on the decision we have to make today and if it is not an aspect to take into account. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u371	To respond to the requests for clarification now made, you have the floor of Mrs Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u372	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions you have raised. I begin precisely with this question by Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins, on the lessons of the return to present education which was made in 3. the period. Now, if there's something we've learned is that priority is exactly the opposite of that which happened in 3. the period and which was the option of the Government. No. 3. the period of last year, again opened schools for older students, for high school students, and what we learned—and the government admitted that this should be the priority—is that they should be the youngest and the most fragile to return to schools and stay in schools, if necessary. Another thing we learned from last summer's lessons is that without equipment, without computers, distance teaching becomes an instrument for deepening social inequalities. And here I must be right to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa: the Prime Minister may not have promised that each student would have a computer at the beginning of the class. But he promised, it was his choice to promise. And the government has not fulfilled that promise. currently, there are about 10% of students with access to computers, outside the teachers, who will also need computers, and outside the school equipment. Therefore, the question remains: if it is necessary for older students to return to a mixed or non-presental regime, how will we guarantee access to equipment? But then there is another question that Mrs Bebiana Cunha put, which has to do with the preparation of the third wave. In fact, it is necessary, on the one hand, to consider that these professionals are professionals of the first line — that is what we demand of them and we must recognise their rights — but we must also acknowledge that schools are not obliged to have, or are, specialists in public health. We need to strengthen public health follow-up to schools! Even today, we heard here that Beja, for example, is without public health doctors, who came out for mobility. Who's going to accompany these schools? Oh, my God! It is natural that cases increase, but these cases do not have to become outbreaks and do not have to force the closure of schools. Schools must be accompanied and with new guidelines adapted to the third wave and tracking. And it is not true what I said here recently, Mr Porfirio Silva, which makes no sense to make any trace in cases where there are no contagions or in which there is no high risk. It is the National Testing Strategy for SARS-CoV-2 that says that, and I quote, "To prevent and mitigate the impact of COVID-19(...) and in vulnerable populations, TRAg tests can be used in tracking people without symptoms and without high-risk contact(...) in certain contexts, namely, "(...) in the context of hospital admission, in residential structures for the elderly, in units of the National Integrated Care Network and in social care institutions, among others. » That, like the others. You know, you have rapid testing screenings to ensure that there is a pandemic control, like the one we're going to need. This strengthening of public health, together with the strengthening of the number of employees to ensure health conditions, together with the capacity to strengthen the number of teachers to keep schools able to keep this transition between students at home who are in prophylactic isolation and those who are in school and to protect employees and teachers belonging to risk groups for which they will also increase the pressure, is this investment that the school needs to make to keep open and to ensure that it reaches the end of the school year without our students having lost one year. This, in addition to the learnings now also with data from the National School of Public Health that comes to tell us that it is the young people between 16 and 24 years of age who had the greatest degradation of mental health due to physical isolation and social isolation. We have to pay attention to these issues and we have to do everything we can to ensure that schools do not have to close, both the younger and the older students, until the end of the school year. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u373	Mrs Deputies, the Bureau was tolerant because it had recently stopped it unduly when it was responding to the first group of requests for clarification. For a political declaration, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u374	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday, hundreds of Petrogal workers went out on the street in Matosinhos to reject the closure of the refinery located in Leça da Palmeira, Matosinhos, and to defend their jobs. With the PCP present yesterday and solidarity with these workers, from here we reaffirm our solidarity with its struggle and its demands. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The decision to close the port refinery, made on the back of the workers, in the evening, as many have confirmed yesterday, brings severe consequences for the lives of workers, but also for the North and the Country, with consequences for the development of the country, industrial fabric, energy sovereignty, territorial balance and employment. It is 1500 workers with jobs at risk, skilled, highly qualified workers, who work daily in the refinery, whether directly linked to Petrogal, or through the provision of services. But they are all workers necessary for the operation of the refinery. This, apart from the profound impacts on the local and regional economy, whose economic activity and jobs are also threatened. Less energy independence and less sovereignty—this is what we talk about, when we talk about the closure of the refinery. A strategic enterprise for the region and for the country, which the administration of Galp wants to close and whose decision has an unacceptable complicity of the government. A decision which was known after having been distributed by the administration of the Galp EUR 580 million in dividends and known as also several announcements regarding the mobilization of public resources to be delivered to the economic groups that close infrastructure—even if in a position to serve the country, as is the case—, allegedly on behalf of the decarbonisation. But the closure of the refinery has no effect on combating climate change. Let us stop refining in Portugal and start importing already refined fuels, nothing helps to reduce emissions; on the contrary, it can have an inverse effect because there is a need for heavy freight transport. This closure is carried out by option of the shareholders of Galp, to increase their profits, an option that demonstrates once again that the privatisation of Galp has weakened the country's sovereignty in energy matters, an option that the Government supports, and the label 'environment' only serves for the operation to be financed from public funds. It should be remembered that the Sines refinery does not replace the Port refinery and that there is production in the Port refinery that is not made in Sines, as is the case with aromatics or base oils. Fuel supply to the entire northern region of the country is made from this refinery, in Matosinhos. A supply from Sines will bring a very significant increase in costs and, in practice, will not happen. What is really going to happen is a supply from Galicia and its Repsol refinery, which is already connected by a pipeline to the Portuguese border. In other words, we'd start to care about what we produce today. The port airport is supplied through a pipeline originating in the Matosinhos refinery. from this refinery, it is still dependent on an important industrial cluster, from the Aromatics Factory in Matosinhos to the Chemical Complex of Estarreja, which will face significant increases in production costs, putting it at risk and the companies that depend on it. The closure of the port refinery means, for example, that some of the medicines will stop using Portuguese raw materials, that road paving works will not be done with Portuguese asphalts or bitumen, that when we are buying a bottle of food oil, the solvents used in the refining of oil will no longer be Portuguese, but will most likely come from Spain. The closure of this refinery is an economic crime that brutally affects 1500 workers and their families, but will also affect the local and regional economic fabric. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The closure of this refinery is a form of Galp continuing to accumulate profits, at the expense of jobs, unemployment, a disaster in the local economy, the loss of sovereignty and more destruction of national production, and using public funds to finance the emptying of this infrastructure. It is urgent to stop the closure of the refinery and the government can do so if it has political will to do so. The Government is the second largest shareholder in Galp and also has a responsibility for protecting this energy sector which gives it the necessary tools to prevent this decision, contrary to the interests of workers and contrary to national interests. The demands of the CFP will be heard by the Minister for the Environment on this matter and we will not stop confronting the Government with its complicity to this situation. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the past few months in which the refinery in Porto was slowing down its activity and attacks on workers' rights were being carried out, the CFP denounced the situation and gave voice to the defense of the refinery and the rights of these workers. Now that it is intended to close the refining operation in port, what is required is the defense of the jobs, the defense of the refinery, of the region and of the national production. It is not the first time they try to close the refining activity in Porto. The mobilization of workers and populations was, then, decisive in preventing this intention. Today, as in the past, this mobilization will be a key element in preventing the destruction of this absolutely strategic asset for Portugal. And the PCP will be here for this fight. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u375	Six Mrs signed for clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. The honourable Member will reply, according to the Bureau, to three separate groups of two Members. Ladies and gentlemen. To request clarification, Mrs Joana Lima of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u376	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Diana Ferreira, I congratulate you and I congratulate you on bringing this very important and relevant issue to debate. This is a subject that the PS accompanies, confirming your concerns. In fact, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, as soon as it was aware of the social communication that the Galp refinery in Matosinhos would close, made a request to the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment to hear three entities, particularly the Minister for the Environment, as the CFP also requested. It is important to hear some entities that we consider crucial to the clarity of the process. With this initiative, we aim to find solutions and means to minimize the negative effects that this closure of the Galp refinery in Matosinhos can cause at work and social level and in particular its workers. The closure of this refinery brings serious economic and social concerns, but we cannot blame ourselves for having diverged at the environmental level. There may be gains in the goals set by the government for carbon neutrality. It was good that we could have "the sun in the air and the rain in the napal"! But despite the environmental gains, we cannot fail to point out that the great concern of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is certainly with the Galp workers. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that we can do something about regional development, particularly with regard to labour and social issues in this process, we never fail to see that workers, the environment and the economy deserve a just and adequate solution. This trilogy is fundamental to social cohesion, always with the concern of defending workers. I would like to leave you with this thought, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u377	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u378	I shall conclude, Madam President. I would like the honourable Member to pay attention to and comment on these three fundamental aspects: workers, the environment and the economy, which are in our concern in the defence of cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u379	To request clarification, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u380	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to greet Mrs Diana Ferreira for bringing this issue to debate. We would like to ask you two very specific questions, but before that, we wanted to tell you the following: in fact, it seems that we are facing a scenario that goes far beyond the closure of an industrial unit. For those who are outside watching all these movements between the Galp and the Government, it seems that we are facing a strategy to convert this refinery into a lithium refinery and, by the way, there is clearly an option here for the stay of workers. I say this, because there was no word from the Government on the subject, in particular about the possible conversion of these professionals. Nor is there any reference to taking responsibility on the part of Galp. In fact, the Government seems to push these costs into the Fund for a Just Transition. Now, in our perspective, this contributes to a deresponsibility of Galp. In the media media bodies, several reports have been sent about an alleged agreement by Galp with a Swedish company to convert this refinery to a lithium refinery, with raw material likely to come from Boticas, bringing environmental costs and economic costs. However, as it seems that Galp is in fact overcoming the closure of this refinery without financial damage, with various losses from the workers' and from the environmental point of view, we would like to know the position of the CFP regarding the transformation of this refinery into a lithium refinery and also whether the CFP considers that, if this happens, the professionals should be converted and maintained, occupying the jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u381	In response to the two requests for clarification, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u382	Madam President, I would like to thank Members Joana Lima and Bebiana for the questions that have been raised. There is an issue that is common and has to do with environmental matters, I mean that, as we have stated in the political declaration recently produced, the closure of this refinery, from the point of view of environmental matters or decarbonisation, will have no impact. In fact, we will not lose our dependence on a set of fossil fuels, particularly in the year 2021. It is therefore necessary to make an effective path, but the solution does not go through the closure of this refinery, knowing that this dependence will be maintained, that there is a pipeline of Repsol on the Portuguese border and that what will happen next is that we will import everything we are producing right now in our country, particularly in the North region. This is an absolutely central issue and the CFP believes that this closure of the refinery located in Matosinhos should be stopped, that all jobs must be guaranteed, because all these workers in the refinery are fundamental for it to work, and that our energy independence and sovereignty must be guaranteed in this matter. This is because we are talking about a strategic asset for the North and a strategic asset for the Country. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I leave this very simple question: when we have a single refinery in Portugal, in Sines, what is going to happen when this refinery has to stop for some reason? How are we going to do with all the production that is guaranteed by these refineries? We're going to import because a refinery has been closed and the Sines refinery is stopped, for example, for maintenance. So this is a fundamental concern that we also have and what we have defended is exactly this. With regard to workers, Mrs Joana Lima, our position is very clear and it is that of defending these jobs, it is that of defending the refinery and its activity, it is against the closure of this refinery. The question is: what will the government do with the instruments it has to stop this situation? This is a situation that has very strong implications for the lives of 1500 workers and their families. It is still a situation that will be an economic disaster in that region. There is a set of micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who have their economic activity closely linked to Petrogal, to the refinery located in Matosinhos. As such, this economic disaster we have referred to must be stopped and can be stopped by the hands of the PS Government. With regard to the energy transition that has been discussed here, Mrs Joana Lima, still yesterday the European Commissioner, confronted by the CFP with this money, said that this money will be allocated to large companies. So the so-called Just Transition we're talking about here is nothing a fair transition.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u383	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u384	I'm really finishing up, Madam President. Yes, this is a transition that says that workers today have a situation of unemployment and then tomorrow as soon as we see what happens. That is why, of course, we reject this path! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u385	For clarifications, Mrs Carla Barros of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u386	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin by welcoming Mrs Diana Ferreira for bringing the issue of closing the Matosinhos refinery to this Parliament. from the PSD Parliamentary Group, it is public that we have followed this issue with some proximity, not with regard to the decision which, of course, we do not criticize since it will certainly have some environmental merit. But we cannot ignore what has already been said by the honourable Members. Members, in particular on the adverse effects this decision may have on the business fabric — not only of the municipality of Matosinhos, but of the North and Country — which works and directly depends on the refinery of Matosinhos. In addition, we know that around 1500 direct and indirect jobs are involved here. With regard to the participation of the Government, we know that the State is a reference shareholder of the Galp, we know that the members of the Government have spoken on the matter, so the PSD understood — which is also public — to call this Parliament the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Labour so that they can be provided with clarifications to the Portuguese. The Portuguese should know the extent of the government's involvement in this decision. In addition, the Portuguese should also know what commitments the Government has made in this decision-making.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u387	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u388	That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all with some unanimity in the treatment of this subject,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u389	Or not!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u390	...but the PSD goes further, which is really to find out the government's involvement in this decision-making. Moreover, we know that unions have not been called to dialogue and negotiation, which also does not favor the reduction of anxiety and anxiety among these workers. Therefore, Mrs PCP, we invite you, not in the way of question, but in the way of challenge, to associate yourself with our concerns because our concerns are the concerns of the country, and to draw on some of these prejudices...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u391	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u392	I'm done, yes, Madam President. And that you may therefore, Mrs Deputy, take a bit of the ideological prejudices of the PCP and look at this in another way. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u393	To request clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u394	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Diana Ferreira, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this very important issue to debate. When a company distributes hundreds of millions of euros of profits, in a country where the minimum wage « does not leave the cake strain» of just over 650 euros and wages are generally very low, we are strange. When this company does so in a time of pandemic, with so many social dramas, there are many people who are unworthy. But when this company announces the closure of one of the largest industrial units in the country, then we can say that it is a scandal, that affects hundreds of workers directly and thousands indirectly, and that it will affect the municipality of Matosinhos, much beyond that. It is a scandal committed by Galp, but of which neither the Government nor the President of the Republic have demarcated. I would once again like to take advantage of the solidarity of the ENP to the workers of the Galp refinery in Matosinhos, and to say that the government has to do what it can to defend it. Mrs Galp is moving forward with the argument of defending the environment. For us, this issue is paramount. However, we consider this to be a false argument. If Galp had environmental concerns, he would have acquired better technology to defend the environment. But, as we know, he did not, despite the constant warnings of the workers. And we believe that the environment does not defend itself by transporting fuel from the South to the North of the country or from Galicia to Portugal. What is needed is another policy of environmental protection, which takes on a necessary transition, but where they are not always sacrificed, the most fragile, does it not seem to you, Mrs Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u395	In reply, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u396	Madam President, I am grateful for the questions put by Mrs Carla Barros and Mrs Mariana Silva. I begin by referring to the last question put by Mrs Mariana Silva, accompanying the reflections she has made, in particular on the question that the word environment is actually used only to seek out the public funds that allow Galp, its shareholders, to accumulate more profits. That's what we're talking about. As we have already stated, what this situation is going to do is that there is a need to import a set of products that we are able to produce in our country at the moment, which, in our view, is not entirely acceptable. Indeed, Galp, the refinery of Porto, can and should make the investment necessary to acquire the most advanced technology and make the technological modernization necessary to mitigate all environmental impacts that may come from its activity, and it is important to say, at the moment, that this refinery is the best in Europe with regard to technologies used from the point of view of the environmental impact. In fact, it is in such a way that the nine refineries that exist in Spain are doing the modernization to get to the level where this refinery is already in Matosinhos. Therefore, from the point of view of technology, this refinery needs to be modernised to mitigate these environmental impacts, although it already has a more advanced path than other refineries in Europe, if we make that comparison. We naturally subscribe to what he said is always the same. In fact, they are always the same to pay and the same to receive. It is the workers who pay with the dismissals and the loss of wages. And they are the same ones to be received, which are the shareholders, who distribute to each other dividends, as is the case with Galp, who distributed 580 million euros in dividends in an absolutely scandalous way, and who then prepares to fire 1500 workers, out of everything else that comes by drag from the point of view of the local economy, the regional economy and the rest of the country. Mrs Carla Barros, the concerns we have about the refinery, we have exposed them. We have the concern of defending jobs, which is to us decisive. We have the concern of defending the refinery, precisely by defending the production of the North region, by defending national production and by defending our sovereignty and energy independence. We cannot continue to pay Repsol what we can produce in our country, with highly skilled workers, workers who know how that refinery works. In addition, as we have already stated, the refinery of Sines cannot, at all, replace the production that currently exists in the refinery of Porto.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u397	Mr José Moura Soeiro of the BE Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u398	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate you, but allow me - let me first say hello to the workers who in Matosinhos yesterday made a demonstration in defense of their jobs. We've been there. Mrs. Deputy was there, and so was I. In fact, as has been said here, this decision of the Galp Administration is a cowardly decision, which was made behind the workers, without any process of dialogue, at least, and has nothing to do with any concern about climate justice. This is because, without changing production and consumption patterns, the closure of the refinery does not reduce emissions at all. It has the unique effect of deindustrialization to the North, with the transfer of part of production to the South, to the Sines, with the consequent increase in external dependence, because we will begin to import the products that are produced here today and, as has already been said, with the costs increased from the environmental point of view that such transport implies. In addition, it leads to the worsening of a social and economic crisis not only in the municipality of Matosinhos, but throughout the district of Porto and in the North region, because we are talking about 500 direct jobs and more jobs of workers who are outsourcing, in addition to indirect jobs associated with that refinery. The use of the Fund for a Just Transition is a huge perversion. And the government did not say anything, « it did not move a straw» when the Galp Administration, in May, distributed dividends in full pandemic, at the same time it was firing wildly precarious workers. When the Prime Minister was confronted here by Mrs Catarina Martins on the distribution of these 500 million euros in a company whose state is the second largest shareholder, the government said nothing. And now he has come to invoke the Paris Agreement in defense of this administration decision. Mrs Deputy, does it not seem shocking to you that the instrumentalization of the climate argumentary for a decision that only has to do with cost containment and the accumulation of profits by this shareholder? In fact, the climate argument is an argument that is used by the Administration, cynically, but is also backed by the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u399	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u400	...and here in Parliament by the PSD. We therefore agree that as an shareholder and as a government that has the protection of the economy and the environment, the government has an obligation to stop this process. That is certainly also what we will discuss during the hearings that will take place this afternoon.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u401	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u402	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u403	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by congratulating Mrs Diana Ferreira and saying that the CDS has a concern about the closure of this refinery, whether from an economic point of view, whether from a working point of view, or from a social point of view. But we do well to locate this debate on what is a refinery. And what is a refinery? It's nothing more than an oil distillery. I'll repeat: it's a distillery of oil! So we can't get here a few days and say, "No! We are very friends of the environment! We want to make the energy transition. We want carbon neutrality. We want decarbonization! » And then, the next day, when we're talking about closing a refinery, such oil distillery,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u404	Let's see if that's all! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u405	... come to say «a Jesus that nothing can be done. The refinery needs to be maintained. You have to keep the same practices! Do not keep on seeking. ” I know that local elections are coming, so I understand some of the speeches, some of the speeches and even some participations in some demonstrations. I get it all! [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]] Now, a refinery is something that has a high carbon intensity! It's not just a thing. I repeat: it's not just one thing! And then we have the state. So let us go to the state : it is true that the State, through the Public, has a participation in the Galp. There is therefore an increased responsibility for dialogue and for solutions for the company and its workers, of course. No one's hiding that. Now, there is something, there is a mechanism that is, however the left tries to devalue and say that it has no interest at all, the Fund for a Just Transition, which has been specifically created to address these situations. In particular, it provides for the protection of what are the most vulnerable working citizens in this same transition and which clearly applies to these same workers, has specific rules, has support, has paths, has solutions. But we can't... I mean, the next time I hear here the left and some of the parties come to defend: «We have to make the energy transition; we want carbon neutrality»,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u406	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u407	...then, yes, you'll remember. And so the question I ask is whether the CFP does not understand that this Fund for a Just Transition is the way, it is the support. The government can create other support, of course, yes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u408	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u409	I will now finish, Madam President. This is to support these same workers as compensation. But, I mean, to come here to defend the maintenance of a refinery, look, it will be a future memory for other debates when we talk about the environment here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u410	In response to the two requests for clarification, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u411	Thank you very much, Madam President. I also thank Mr José Soeiro and Mr João Gonçalves Pereira for the questions they have raised. Mr. José Soeiro, in effect, we accompany a set of concerns that have brought here, and environmental issues are no more than a « smoking curtain» to hide other objectives,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u412	And a distillery of oil is good!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u413	...that may even be behind the disappearance of the refinery of the Port. And, Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, the port refinery is much more than a distillery, from a point of view of its production and the unique production of various products in this same distillery.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u414	It's just good stuff!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u415	I could inform you about a set of them that we have here. I informed some of the gallery when I spoke, but we could, for example, refer to the wax production for the candles we bought in our country, which is also assured in the refinery of the Port, as we could also talk about the paper packaging that are used to transport, store or store food...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u416	Say there the percentages of each product!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u417	... or other properties susceptible to moisture, which are waterproofed with Portuguese mineral waxes. We could talk about a set of other examples of the Port refinery that its activity also guarantees and that these workers with their activity, in fact, give great wealth to our country, from a point of view also of the one that is the value of export. Therefore, the environmental issue here is a'smooth curtain' and, Mr President, as regards the issue of CO2 emissions, they do not know exactly borders, so what will happen is to relocate the question of this same carbonisation...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u418	No national goals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u419	They do not know borders and, as such, it is the relocation of a problem that naturally becomes a place other than that one. And with regard to the question of the need for technological modernization to mitigate those who are the environmental impacts, Mr. Deputies, the CFP has also stated here that this is indeed the way...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u420	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u421	... and that it is possible and necessary to do this technological modernization and that it is possible and necessary to do so in the refinery, in fact, as the workers themselves defend, as the workers themselves have said. What is not, at all, acceptable, because, Mr, what we are talking about with the closure of this refinery is the unemployment of more than 1000 people at a time of great difficulties and social misfortune; it is the impoverishment of thousands of families;...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u422	He wants to mix everything up!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u423	... is the increase in the import of goods and products into our country, which we are currently producing; it is to abdicate from the supply of the market for fuels and chemicals in the North, making the country also more dependent. It is against this, of course, that we are and it is for the defense of these workers and of these jobs that the CFP came here today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u424	For the last political statement today, Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u425	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since March last year, almost a year ago, we have been dealing with a totally new reality, but also from the beginning that there are things we know and that we should take into account whenever we respond to needs. The first, probably, of all, is the fact that the COVID-19 pandemic has a special impact on the elderly. When in March, in Portugal, we began to take steps to combat this pandemic, we already knew from other countries that this was a very obvious reality. That is why the CDS, like other parties, also in March and April, called for measures that directly addressed the older to protect them in a first phase and, in a second phase, to reduce the impacts of this pandemic not only on the institutionalized elderly and not only on those in the homes—we go there — but also, because little has been said, on those who are not in the homes, but on their homes. I'd start with those today. There are so many elderly people who almost a year ago lost almost all their ties to the community, their whole connection to society, in many cases, their whole connection to their own families. This is because they are not institutionalized, because they could not stay with their families, because they could not leave home and because obviously, even if they did not suffer the disease, they clearly suffered this isolation. That is why when we called for a social emergency program, as soon as April, we said that it was essential to respond through home support, that it was essential to create multidisciplinary teams not to expose the elderly to all these risks, the risk of disease, pandemic, but also the risks of isolation, the risks of mental health, the risks of other health problems that these elderly people have and unfortunately did not have answers. It is true that measures have been announced for the third age, especially aimed at homes. Some have worked better than others, as we'll see. But it is appropriate to ask: and for all the elderly who are not institutionalized and who have stayed in their homes, what has the government done? What has the government worked with institutions that already have responsibility on the ground and have always had responsibility for home support and other institutions? With the authorities, yes, they gave extraordinary answers to this proximity support, with much less means than the central State would have? With the IPSS, which continued and strengthened teams, which often had to replace the home support teams, because obviously the people who initially did so were also suffering the impact of the disease, or because they were sick, or because they had to stay with children at home or because they themselves had to care for the elderly in their families. at a time when we will start a new confinement, it is appropriate to remember, here, all these elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u426	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u427	And let them not be left behind this time, and let them not be forgotten this time, and that they should be given priority this time, so that they are not the most excluded from all, in the context of the fight against this pandemic. But we were also left with the answer that was not effective. Just remember the last measure, which appeared in September when so many parties had claimed it in March: the famous response brigades supposedly rapid in the homes. They appeared after all the infectious outbreaks, which we were maintaining knowledge in the summer, with the one who had the most mediatism, in Reg along Monsaraz. After that, the Minister of Health said that the problem was solved, that rapid brigades would be created, district to district, and whenever there was a problem in a home, these brigades would respond. It could be the CDS or other opposition party saying today, here, that these brigades didn't work. But we don't have to say it, because the Minister has already said it. The Minister who, in September, said that everything would work, last week said that there is no capacity of the Ministry of Health to respond to all demands and problems in the homes. This is called a lack of planning, it is not a lack of resources. Resources are missing at this time because planning has never existed; resources are missing at this time because priorities have not been listed and resources are missing at this time because there was no courage in time to assume that something had to be done. It is important to remember that at that time, as soon as March and April, what was requested for the homes, first of all, were personal protective equipment that had finally arrived, so many times by the authorities, not by the central state. Then they were the screening tests and still today, Mr. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what would it be for our homes and our elderly if, indeed, the government had been assumed as a priority for the screening of positive cases? If, from the beginning, we had done what other countries did, to have in the elderly and other populations at risk this strategy of testing, testing, to be able to contain the disease infection? It has not been done at the time and is not yet being done, even after a national strategy for this has been adopted in November. Then support for private institutions of social solidarity. We have often called for a fair update of cooperation agreements. It did not happen in sufficient amount during 2020 and, worse, it did not happen fairly in the Budget for 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u428	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u429	Finally, Madam President, what we want to remember here today is what I said recently: we are going to start a new confinement, a new difficult phase for all Portuguese, but being difficult for all, it is much more difficult for the elderly, and especially for those who are isolated. Let the government not forget them, as you have forgotten so far, and let the answer be much better than it has so far been. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u430	Five were registered. Members for requests for clarification. How does Mr. João Almeida want to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u431	Mr President, I would like to reply first to three Members and then to the other two.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u432	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr José Soeiro of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u433	Mr President, Mr. João Almeida, in common with your intervention, we have a concern about the reality that is being experienced by the older, social suffering, isolation, which is too hard for many people and the fact that the public response has been late and, in many cases, continues to be insufficient, with the consequences we know. Clearly, this is a complicated situation, also for guardianship, that is, it is not easy to have an immediate and fully effective response. But we are today—and here we certainly differ—to a large extent, to pay the price of a regime in which, contrary to what happens to health, which has a public service, a National Health Service, disseminated in the territory as a social right that is organized by the State, in the field of the care of the elderly, we have the monopoly of a private response, which does not, even, have the control capacity, of centralized intervention that has the National Health Service. We are also paying the price, to some extent, of favouring a model of institutionalization, vis-à-vis other models and other responses, which would pass much more, not only by remaining at home, but also by different institutional responses from home, as has been attempted, for example, in some villages, with more human models and models that, up to the point of view of isolation and the containment of the pandemic, are much more effective than the concentration of people in the same institution. Finally, we are also, and the government is insisting on answers that repeat old mistakes. The strengthening of professionals that was done in the homes did not take into account that we need professionals with conditions, too. This is the strengthening of professionals, the programme for strengthening professionals that the government has put on the ground sent to the households people who do not even have a job contract. They are unemployed who receive a grant, which adds to their unemployment allowance, to reinforce intervention in the homes and to respond to staff gaps.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u434	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u435	I conclude, Madam President. However, we needed precisely an articulated plan between health and social security, capable of providing qualified resources and also taking advantage of this opportunity to multiply home responses and other institutional models. On the left side of the Block, we hope that we are still in time to start that path. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u436	For clarifications, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u437	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr João Almeida, I begin by congratulating the CDS on bringing about such an important theme, especially at this time and now that we are going to enter a new confinement, concern for the elderly. In fact, this is a concern that the PSD accompanies. All that you have just mentioned is a concern that we, in addition to accompanying, have already come with certain measures to try to resolve the situation once and for all and that there is no elderly person left behind, but, in fact, that is not unfortunately what we are checking. What happens is that, for example, and you also mentioned it, and well, we have to find measures for all the elderly, regardless of whether they are in their homes, regardless of whether they are in their homes, institutions. And when I speak in institutions, I speak in legal or illegal institutions. So there are a number of issues here which the Government has not been able to answer. I recall that the PSD, in the last State budget, once again presented a measure, this measure which was plunged, with the support of the Socialist Party, to strengthen home support. If, before the pandemic, this support should have been strengthened, now for a majority of reasons, but unfortunately, this is not what has been done. As far as home is concerned, it is important to remember a very relevant matter here and which you also mentioned: we have elderly people outside the support of the State. Now that you start a vaccination plan, it is essential that you identify where all the elderly are.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u438	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u439	It is essential for the State to map and lift all legal and illegal homes, so that all the elderly are vaccinated, and it was in this sense that the PSD also presented a draft resolution. Therefore, we would like to hear from the honourable Member's opinion and to know whether the CDS also accompanies this concern of the PSD as to the need to identify where the elderly are, so that no one will actually stay behind. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u440	To request clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u441	Mr President, Mr. João Almeida, I welcome you for bringing this very important issue in the days we live and which concerns us all. The aging rate in Portugal is close to 144 %, with obvious implications for our social organisation. This situation requires responses at various levels. It cannot be accepted that the elderly population, after a lifetime of working and contributing to the development of the country, remains unprotected, at a stage of life in which it is especially vulnerable and sometimes isolated, being indispensable to implement measures for social inclusion, to combat isolation and social marginalization. Because of the lack of response from the State, the answers we find today are offered by private spaces, often very expensive and that do not meet the needs throughout the country. The few homes of the social network are overcrowded, without adequate means and without adequate human resources. However, Mr President, I would like to ask you if you agree with the considerable increase that is now taking place in some homes. This is because, Mr President, we do not deny that there are increased costs to meet the needs of fighting the pandemic, but this is not the time to overburden those who face so many difficulties, especially when resources are almost all public and are not as little as that. We cannot ignore that values become unbearable for families and incompatible with the low reforms that elderly people receive, especially at a time when Portuguese families face serious economic problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u442	To reply, Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u443	Madam President, thank you very much. Members who asked the questions and began answering Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP. Madam Member, I do not agree with the reduction in the net amount given by the State to private institutions of solidarity to perform a function which is a public function. Therefore, the question of the discussion of the monthlyities is a discussion that does not make sense in this context and that stems from those that are the difficulties of the homes caused by the net reduction of public participation, against which we are baptized here. Thus, what can be done so that the elderly will not remain in this invoice is the State, for example, to update the amount of cooperation agreements at least in the amount of the increase in the national minimum wage, because that means that these institutions will be able, at the level of their staff costs, to have a balance and not to have an imbalance in that component, which obviously causes the other components to have to compensate. That is where the State must respond, and with this I will also answer the question of Mr José Soeiro, the question of the supposed private monopoly: one thing is the private monopoly, another thing is subsidiarity. They're completely different things. What the State does here, and from our point of view, is to take advantage of resources that exist in the field for the performance of functions that are public and therefore there is no privatization of social security and social response to the elderly. The social response to the elderly is provided by those on the ground because, to the contrary, it is preferable to be competitive in creating another system. Mr. Deputies, where I disagree is the assessment we make. If there is a time when I think this response is more effective than the public response is exactly this. This is because if in institutions things may not always have been the best way, as it is evident, because the time is difficult — for the State, too, and I recognized it in the intervention — it worked much worse at the level of public support. Therefore, looking at the current reality, I cannot do the reading that you are reading. The reading I do is that if the homes were public, probably assessing by what has been the state's response, the elderly would be in a worse situation. In spite of everything, on the basis of the particular institutions of social solidarity and, it is recognised, with the State represented by the authorities, which are also State but not Central State, it has worked much better than, for example, the brigades created by the ministry or the non-existent articulation, as was also mentioned here by the honourable Member, between health and social security. We have had the two ministers in Parliament compromise with a better link between the two areas and we know that this has not happened, that we continue to have problems, because of course these institutions are not specialized in the provision of medical care.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u444	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u445	I will finish, Madam President. As I said, these institutions specialize in providing care to the elderly but not health care, and therefore this articulation did not exist. I shall finish, Madam President, by responding to Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, whom I thank for the matter, and saying that obviously the PSD project is of the greatest importance and that is why I am referring to other initiatives. All elderly people must be accompanied, wherever they are and even in illegal homes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u446	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u447	The State cannot at this time discriminate against those homes, harm the elderly, and that would be unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u448	Mr João Paulo Pedrosa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u449	Mr President, Mr. João Almeida, I would like to congratulate you on the subject you have brought, but I will not welcome you for your intervention. It is clear from unfair statements that do not correspond to the truth, because the honourable Member has forgotten two fundamental things: the set of measures taken by the government — which we could say were herculias — for the prevention of the pandemic in the homes made us have 0, 7% infected during the strongest pandemic processes, much less than the European average, and this is due to the set of measures taken, I repeat, with 1, 3 million PPE (individual protection equipment), with the increase and reinforcement of cooperation agreements by 70 million euros, with the increase of aid for strengthening home support, and, Mrs. Mr Clara Marques Mendes and Mr João Almeida, were for everyone, not only for those who were institutionalized but also for those who were receiving home support — and also with the formation of the brigades that worked in a set of extraordinary and very important matters. He then forgot and did not talk about what is being the success of the ongoing vaccination process in the homes, which has already led the President of the Union of Mercy, Mr. Manuel Lemos, to say that the programme is going to be a success.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u450	No one's with the virus! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u451	It is enough to say that in the first week alone and with a shortage of vaccines, more than 7000 citizens have been vaccinated in residential institutions, whether legal or illegal. There were 105 institutions, 30 municipalities, 10 % of the country immediately in the first week, I repeat.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u452	Yeah, it's okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u453	Extreme-risk Councils of VOCID moved to municipalities free of VOCID, because the most vulnerable populations were vaccinated. From 11 to 15 January more than 30 000 people are expected to be vaccinated in more than 5000 residential structures in 60 municipalities. Now, 60 plus 30 makes 90 councils, which means that, in 15 days, one third of the country's councils are free of VOCID in residential institutions, which are the most vulnerable. Therefore, and since I no longer have time, Mr. João Almeida, since he spoke about the exponential increase in outbreaks in homes, what I wanted to ask him is the following: we know that there were difficulties in making the prophylactic isolation of many of the elderly because there were no conditions...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u454	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u455	I conclude now, Madam President. Mr President, I would like to ask you the following: the CDS and PSD have exponentially increased the number of vacancies in homes, which has prevented there from being a prophylactic isolation in conditions today. Is the CDS sorry to have taken that step? Do you think that was a mistake for our elderly people? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u456	For clarifications, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u457	Madam President, I begin by congratulating Mr João Almeida on the subject he has brought here. The CFP, soon in March, by the voice of its Secretary-General, raised concerns due to the situation of the outbreak that the country faces, soon in March we raised concerns regarding the issue of residential structures for the elderly, the homes of the elderly, and how this whole situation was to be dealt with in these same institutions. throughout all these months, whether with questions addressed to the Government in writing or also in statutory hearings, we have come to question the government on this matter, especially those which have to be the solutions adopted in the face of the problems that exist. Indeed, we have a worrying situation in the case of the elderly who are at home, but there is also a concern with the elderly who, not in their homes, need a set of responses and follow-up they are not having, as well as we mention concerns regarding the worsening of the isolation situation of many elderly people. This is because if it is true that at the moment this reality exists, it is no less true that this reality already existed before and the pandemic situation has only aggravated a reality of isolation which unfortunately occurs with many elderly people. Mr President, I would like to ask you the following: the CFP has put forward a number of proposals to respond to this reality. We have even put forward proposals for strengthening workers for homes, understanding and advocating that the State must take on its responsibilities here. The CDS does not follow the CFP in the proposal we have regarding the public home network.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u458	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u459	We understand that it is important, even to reinforce the answer that it is necessary not only to solve waiting lists problems but also to respond to a set of institutions that are not even legalized and are currently working. But, honourable Member, the CFP has also proposed strengthening of professionals for households. He proposed and presented a bill here in the House to ensure that these workers' rights were contracted, with a link, so that they would not go there for a month or two and would then be sent back to the unemployment situation, even at increased risks to the situation of the outbreaks in some institutions. We proposed that these workers should have the right training to deal with both the situation of COVID-19, but also to deal with the elderly who have to follow.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u460	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u461	Even in order to finish, I would say that we would ask until these workers were hired by the institutions to review their cooperation agreements from the point of view of their funding, but the CDS voted against this PCP bill. So we could have solved this situation, which is not solved because the CDS did not want to solve it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u462	To respond to the two requests for clarification, Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u463	Mrs President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, I would like to reply directly to you with justification and compensation. The justification is as follows: the CDS did not vote in favour of this bill for two reasons, which I explain quickly. One is that a conjuncural problem is not solved with a structural solution, i.e. it cannot definitely contract and embolden staff members of these institutions taking into account a reality which is limited in time. Therefore, it cannot increase structural costs without that, then, having a balance in management. Unless the state financed it... but that wasn't in the PCP project.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u464	I was in our project!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u465	No, the CFP project was not financing staff expenditure, structurally, for the future. The second reason why it should not be voted in favour was that of hiring, i.e. it cannot be the central State to hire workers and impose them on the institutions. Obviously, the procurement process had to be conducted by the institutions themselves. As for the remuneration, there were two measures presented by the CDS and the PCP voted against. First: SOS homes, hiring doctors. If the State cannot resolve the link between health and social security so that there is health care in the homes, then allow the homes to hire doctors to provide these health care. The PCP did not vote in favour! Another essential issue: for the elderly who are at home, who have a problem with their family budget—which is often personal, because they are alone—is to solve the question of medicines, i.e. to achieve, once and for all, excluding the expenditure on medicines from what is the expense of families and the elderly with less resources. Neither did they vote in favour of this CDS project! Therefore, there is probably a need here for a greater joint, so that these solutions can effectively be achieved. As for what Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa said, I think he said a sentence, but he did not say it, of course, with the meaning it has, which was that, in my speech, I said things that do not correspond to the truth. If that had been the case, the honourable Member had said what they were and had not said any. The honourable Member said that, in my speech, I had said things that did not correspond to the truth and then spoke about the e-mail that must have been received from the Ministry of Social Security, with all the data that the Ministry of Social Security considers to be positive to explain the current situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u466	Here's the mail!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u467	But, Mr, the problem is that this is not solved by the Ministry's e-mails, it is solved by solutions that, in the field, solve people's problems. And what I said in the gallery, and it's not a lie, is that it wasn't the CDS that said the brigades aren't enough, that's what the minister said. Therefore, in the e-mail sent to you from the Ministry, they could also have added that, in addition to that, Mr. Minister said last week that the Ministry no longer has the capacity to respond to all the problems that exist in the homes. That is what we are talking about, Mr President, is not a question of who is in the government and who is in the opposition. It is not a question of saying that, at home X, this has happened and the honourable Member has responded to the general statistics.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u468	Statistics come from reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u469	It's all about us all knowing, and we all know...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u470	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u471	I will finish, Madam President. As I said, we all know, and we all know and cannot ignore, that there are many isolated elderly people who need support and there are many homes without responsiveness. Mr President, none of us can deny this reality and, if we cannot deny it, when we start a new confinement we must act accordingly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u472	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda. Mr. Secretary of the Bureau, Mr. Nelson Peralta, will give us...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u473	Madam President, may I apologize for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u474	Mr. José Magalhães, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u475	To call on the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u476	What's the point, sir? About the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u477	Certainly, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u478	So please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u479	Mr President, I was not in the Chamber and therefore I did not directly bear witness to the question made to the Bureau about the distribution of a document which the PS Parliamentary Group requested to be distributed, and that the Bureau, moreover, had to distribute, which was then withdrawn. We do not, of course, agree with this decision, but I am not here to announce any challenge, because I myself distribute the document to the press bench and it will be published widely on the Internet, because it is a very important document.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u480	Sir, I've figured out which one is...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u481	No, Madam President, because the question concerning the question that we are most concerned about is this: was it handed over by the PSD Parliamentary Group, which has so much been excited about any document of the promised here, in particular the Charter of the European Council to Dr. Ana Carla Almeida, on the reasons why it was not chosen?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u482	Mr. Deputy, do you conclude? If you have not concluded, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u483	That is a question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u484	No further documents have been sent to the Bureau by any parliamentary group or by some Member. With regard to the document which you asked the Bureau to distribute and which has been distributed, you indicated that it was a letter from the European Council. We have verified that it was not a letter from the European Council, that it was not signed and that it was just, let us say, a working paper by Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u485	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u486	... and therefore did not correspond to what had been announced or to what had been the Bureau's understanding of the announcement made by Mr. All parliamentary groups are free to distribute whatever they want to colleagues, journalists, etc. But in order for the Bureau to take the initiative of distributing documents, the documents must be identified and signed. I therefore believe that the matter is over and, I repeat, no more documents have been delivered to the Bureau. Now, yes, we're at the end of our order of business. Mr. Secretary of the Bureau, Mr. Nelson Peralta, will make the usual announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u487	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to point out the report of the Members present, by videoconference, at this plenary session. Elected by the electoral circle of Madeira, they were present by videoconference, and by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sara Madruga of the Costa and Mr Sérgio Marques. On other issues, Mr Norberto Patinho, the PS Parliamentary Group, and the Members were present by video conference. Mr André Coelho Lima and José Silvano of the PSD Parliamentary Group. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-13.u488	Thank you very much, Mr President. The next plenary meeting will be held tomorrow at 3 p.m. and will have the following agenda: firstly, we will appreciate draft resolution No 800 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Concession of National Pantheon Honors to José Maria Eça de Queiroz ; secondly, we will proceed to the joint discussion of the Bills Nos. 606 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Approves the legal regime of declassification of contracts or other documents which compromise the State or other entities within the budgetary perimeter in key sectors and 634 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Approves a legal regime for the transparency of contracts, agreements and other documents relating to transactions determining the use or availability of public funds in relation to entities belonging to strategic sectors; thirdly, and lastly, we will consider together draft Law No 571 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extends the protection granted by the social benefit for inclusion ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017 of 6 October ), 545 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Improves the conditions of access of persons with disabilities to social benefits for inclusion, 623 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Improvement of conditions for access to social benefits for inclusion and increase of the value of accumulation of the basic component with labour income ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017 of 6 October) and 629 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Increased basic component of social benefit for inclusion. Now, yes, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of the sitting. Thank you and I wish everyone and all a good rest of the day. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 26 minutes.]]
