ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. The plenary meeting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] of the first item on our agenda is the Request to Government No 9 / XIV / 2. a (BE) on cultural policy. But before we start the debate, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will give some very important information for our future life. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. They entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 1310 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 4. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 1311 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1312 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 1313 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1314 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission, 1315 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1316 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 2. the Commission, and 1317 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 2. the Commission. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u3	Thank you, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Let us, then, start our work. You have the floor to open the debate, Mrs Catarina Martins, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u4	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, in July 2020, Prime Minister António Costa, said at his participation in the International Labour Organization summit: « This crisis has highlighted the deep fractures of our society and the price we pay for the excessive deregulation of everything we used to call the labour market because leaving unprotected in times of prosperity is to leave absolutely unprotected in times of crisis. Do not keep on seeking. ” We couldn't agree more. This is evidence in the most diverse sectors and is particularly violent in the culture sector. That is why it is worrying that the Ministry of Culture, after having abandoned professionals during the toughest months of the pandemic, when it announces the recovery of the sector, if it conforms to the normalization of labour abuse, rather than combat this excessive deregulation. The Council of Ministers approved a proposal for the status of professionals in the field of culture in which it states that, and I quote the explanatory statement, « much of the cultural activities are based on working relations with legal autonomy ». You don't realize where this statement comes from, you have no study that supports it. I suggest to the Minister a simple exercise that defuses this statement in less than 30 seconds. Imagine going to a concert, to the theater, to the circus, to a dance show, to a museum, to a monument, to a gallery. Does it seem to you, Mrs. Minister, that if that team you cross, from artists to technicians, you wouldn't be in that place, at that time, could you enjoy any of these activities? Does it seem to you that a film could be made, a recorded record, without any team meeting local orders, instruments and hours of work? Mr. Minister, who is from Culture, but who, like all of us, has read the Labour Code: if workers are subject to the determination of the place and time to exercise their function, with working instruments that are not their own, they are not self-employed. There is a presumption of a contract of employment and it is a contract of work that has to be guaranteed to them. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We don't know what these contracts will be like. That's another question. Some will be permanent, others only one day or one night, in one will be required exclusivity, in others the worker may have several simultaneous contracts. But they are employment contracts, green receipts, unipersonal companies, informal work, and all these forms exist in culture, yes, and they are flagrant illegalities. It is this abuse that leaves cultural workers without protection, in the event of accidents at work or occupational disease, vulnerable to all kinds of harassment at work, condemned to reforms of misery, without parental rights. This leaves them, as Mr Prime Minister said, "absolutely unprotected in times of crisis". There is certainly some autonomous work in culture, especially copyright, which is a very small part of this sector. The rest is abuse and illegality and must be fought. Trying to legitimize what goes against the law of work in the new status for the sector is absolutely unacceptable and therefore we have marked this appeal to the Government. Mr. Minister, the proposed statute does not want to change the paradigm of the sector, either in what it establishes or in the capacity to guarantee respect for the law. It proposes a new suspension allowance, but obliges workers to be at least one quarter without income to access support; it presents a short-term contract scheme with more social protection, but employers only adhere if they want, and can always choose the term contract, less costly, or persist in illegality. In fact, the proposed statute does not force anyone to comply with anything. In its Article 5. the, entitled « positive action measures for the conclusion of a contract of employment », the Government candidly reiterates its error: employment contracts are not required, but a mere preference. A very kind reading of this proposed statute would say that it is an appeal to the employer's ethics, but we cannot believe that. The abuse in culture is persistent and the apparent proximity and complicity of labor relations has always served only for abuse. In the circus, there are those who have started working as a child and reach the retirement age without a single day of discounts. Artists who are references of our culture and who used to admire receive pensions of misery. It was not solidarity between workers in the pandemic period and hunger and the loss of housing would be an even greater problem. And all this in a sector with close ties to public authorities, where almost everything depends on authorizations and licenses, but where there is safe conduct for labour abuse. Worse: the state, including the authorities, which is the great employer directly and indirectly, is the first to set the example of abuse. from the late drink to the 30 million of the Culture for All Programme, promised for last summer and which no one has seen, through the support more focused on excluding than to support, the performance of the Ministry of Culture reflects this deep disrespect for those who work in culture. When the activity was banned, instead of support to whom it stopped, contests were opened for future activities that no one knew when and how it could perform. An absolute rash! When the Labour Conditions Authority ( ACT ) ordered workers to integrate into false green receipts in Serralves and the House of Music, the Government defended the Administration against workers. A revealing attack! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the decisions of the Act on Serralves and the House of Music are a fundamental step for the workers of the cultural sector. Workers who assure the front of the room, technicians and educators have been recognized their right to a contract of work with those institutions by ACT. This recognition can and should be extended to all workers who, in these and other functions, are in the same condition. That is the way we should go, that is the way that the statute should impose and not hinder. The House of Music and Serralves are not isolated cases. Far from it! Their illegal practices are equal to those of the generality of cultural institutions. The Block made a survey of the use of this type of false outsourcing in national cultural institutions and in the Chamber of Lisbon, which, in fact, the Minister knows well, and found a small group of companies, almost all unipersonal, whose activity is to ensure the whole front of the room in the largest cultural institutions in the country. These companies do nothing more than broker the payment of wages to which they work in these institutions, preventing these workers from having access to the employment contract they should have. The Chamber of Lisbon pays these companies half a million euros / year and national theatres so much. This precariousness scheme in the culture sector imposed by the State is common to many sectors and professions, both in public institutions and in private companies in the culture sector. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the precariousness in culture, as in any sector, serves two objectives: the disproportionate power of those employed on whom they work, running any rule concerning rest hours or any other right, and low wages. Even before the pandemic, the Portuguese Observatory of Cultural Activities already showed that half of the self-employed workers received below the current minimum wage. And delays in funding, too, already normalized, cause regular collective dismissals without name or rights, because, after all, there is no contract. Where the contract exists, the rule has been the low and frozen wage or the job is empty. This is the case in the heritage, with the frames of the general management and the museums to be filled. This is the case on the RTP ( Radio and Television of Portugal ), where the Government proposes a new concession contract with less revenue and more expenditure, proposing to solve the impossible equation with more cuts and more outsourcing. The proposal for a government statute, as it is, follows the maximum of Lampedusa : « Something must change for everything to continue as it is. » The government has interrupted negotiations with the sector and perhaps hopes that announcements of new support will demobilize the struggle for the labour contract. from the Left Block, we do not give up any struggle — from support for the recovery of the State budget for culture — and nothing distracts us from a fundamental requirement, that work in culture is work and there must be a contract of work, and that requires decent status. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u5	Even at the stage of the debate, the Government has the floor, through the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today to talk about the government's cultural policy, at the request of the Left Block, which wanted one of its two debates, by means of an appeal to the Executive, to be about culture, an option that we naturally welcome. Under this Block initiative will apparently be the accusation of the absence of a strategic vision for the sector by the Ministry of Culture. Let us then speak of the strategic vision for the sector, but also of those who make culture only an accessory to use in the holidays, in front of the cameras, in a desire to produce headlines. in a memory exercise, which was also done here, we returned to the fall of 2020, at the vote of the State budget for 2021. Measures were adopted for the area of culture, together with the CFP, the ENP, the NAP and the non-registrated Member Cristina Rodrigues, and in this dialogue, something was also very significant as the adoption of a programme to support artistic and cultural work, which was at the origin of the Guarantee Culture Programme, at a total value of EUR 53 million. This is the result of when you work constructively. on the other side of the mirror was the Left Block, as it is usual, stopped, looking at itself. This party has decided, being in its entirety right, not to approve the State budget. But it is important to remind the Portuguese, especially those who are part of the cultural sector, and for the future memory of all, that, at no time of the dialogue that the Left Block held with the Government in 2020 in the context of the negotiation of the State budget, culture was brought to the table. We have sought and have not once found the word 'culture' in the proposals which the Block gave to the Government during the negotiations on the State budget for 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This disinterest of the Left Block for culture did not happen in any year, happened during the worst moment of our lives, a period marked by closed rooms, closed cinemas, canceled shows, lead days when hundreds of professionals had to fight as never before. And where was the Left Block at that time?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u7	With them!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u8	next to the culture sector was certainly not. And yet, dare the Left Block come, now, to talk about strategy for culture. This is no strategy, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is stratagem. Culture and its professionals deserve much more than this. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The discourse of the Left Block is, in fact, a manual of political incongruence. It says the party that the sector is immersed in a 'labour forest' — I read today in a newspaper — and that the government 'did not learn the lessons of the pandemic'. Question : Where has the Block been, in the last year? Does it seem that, although today it does not seem, they wanted to ignore that the Staff Regulations of the Professionals of the Culture Area have been approved, a very old claim from the sector, to which, until today, they had never been able to respond? Do you forget that, for the first time, there is a complete document, which will combat precariousness, which will bring greater social protection to cultural professionals? Do they not know that the status is in the process of public consultation—are they certainly not unaware—and that everyone, including the Block, can make their contributions? Yes, the Left Block, as much of the opposition, in respect of culture, prefers to ignore, ignore and forget all that is not rhetorical and foam of the days. That is the true forest and the hard lesson we have taken. The strategic vision of this government for the culture sector has been only one, since the first day: putting culture at the heart of a true state policy. How? Attributing to culture its central role as an engine of economic activity and social and territorial cohesion; ensuring the enjoyment of a culture of high quality by all citizens; promoting the stability of the sector and the confidence of its professionals; investing in culture as a guarantor of democracy. In March 2020, when the pandemic arrived in Portugal, it was clear to us that we would have to work in two different scenarios at the same time: the first, dominated by the emergency and by the response to the pandemic crisis; the second, dedicated to the pursuit of the cultural policy enshrined in the Government Programme. In order to cope with the pandemic between 2020 and 2021, the Ministry of Culture approved measures whose overall financial impact exceeded EUR 160 million to which EUR 75 million was added to the culture sector through cross-cutting support for employment and businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It should also be noted that the State budget for 2021 — the budget in which the Left Block has forgotten culture — increased by 46 %, without the Guarantee Culture Programme. In addition, let us remember, between 2018 and 2021, the overall budget of the Ministry of Culture increased by EUR 100 million, excluding the sector of social communication. In the same period, investment in cultural heritage grew from 11 to 35 million euros. Finally, the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ) devotes EUR 243 million to culture. They use these numbers to confirm something we have always known: a true state policy for culture is made of ideas and proposals, but also investment. Investing financially in culture is the consecration of our commitment and our vision for the sector. Even in the context of the pandemic, we have never ceased to implement and implement the measures we commit ourselves to in the Government Programme, while at the same time acting with specific measures to support the sector, to respond to the public health crisis. Only in this way was it possible to hold a Council of Ministers devoted to culture, which took place on 22 April. on this day, we approved the diploma that sets the 46 museums and monuments and national theatres, whose requalification and conservation are part of the culture in the PRR. This strategic and structured investment in cultural heritage — worth EUR 150 million — is essential to preserve its cultural, historical, artistic and architectural value, placing cultural heritage in the central place of social, economic and territorial development. On 22 April it was also the one in which we approved the Staff of the Professionals of the Culture Area. It is the result of a government work, but also of all the associations representing the sector. Let me, moreover, again, thank you publicly and now also thank you for the meetings that have been held since April 22, in the context of the public consultation. The statute is something that has been desired by many people for many years. This status does not represent a mere review of the scheme of work contracts of show professionals, approved in 2008. This is not about presenting with new clothes what already existed. This is a global legal framework for work in the culture sector, applicable to all professionals in the arts of show, audiovisual, visual arts and literary creation, of all areas working in the culture sector. It is a truly universal status, which is configured as a starting point for a less precarious, more protected and more stable culture. Another of the brands of cultural policy that we have continued is based on vision for the territory. Promoting greater territorial cohesion, through a decentralizing logic and closer proximity of the state to the local power and with the cultural agents disseminated by the country, has been a policy of this government. This has been at the heart of our concerns since early on because we consider the gradual correction of regional asymmetries to be an imperative of justice and equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] that are already underway several structural legislative instruments that will contribute, for themselves, and in conjunction with other measures, to a greater cohesion of the national space, as regards the dynamization of cultural supply and demand, the circulation of artistic works, the qualification and valorization of human resources restricted to cultural equipment, the deepening of circuits and collaborative practices in the network, the involvement of local artistic fabric, among other benefits. Scope, inclusion and territorial cohesion are key ideas of this strategic vision for culture. In the background, we are talking about the basic principles underlying the implementation of the Portuguese Theatres and Cinemateatres Network, to be started this month, whose programme of support for the programming of municipal cultural equipment is something unpublished in the history of public financing of performing arts in Portugal, but also of the Portuguese Contemporary Art Network, which will allow, in a decentralized manner, greater circulation of works and a more comprehensive use of contemporary artistic languages in the field of visual arts. in this logic, we also include the extension of the National Plan of Cinema and the National Plan of Arts to a greater number of schools and students in the country, as well as the creation of the PADES ( Program of Support for the Development of Services of Public Libraries ), in a close dialogue between the National Network of Public Libraries and the inter-municipal communities. The ambitious investment programme for cultural heritage, as well as the technological training of cultural networks, aimed at digital transition, both provided for in the PRR, together with the presentation, still this month, of the strategic plan of the museums(2021 - 2031 ) and of the start-up, this week, of the Science Program in the Cultural Heritage (with the creation of scholarships and doctoral contracts), are also fundamental measures that are under way and which will contribute to the attenuation, at different levels, of the general framework of regional asymmetries. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The revision of the model of support for the arts, already implemented in the programme of support for projects to be launched by DGArtes (Direction-General of the Arts) in July this year, also puts a very incisive focus on the issue of regional criteria for access to public financing of the artistic fabric, in order to ensure a more balanced and geographically equitable distribution of existing resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u9	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u10	I shall conclude, Mr President. The triad composed of the Portuguese Theatres and Cinematories Network, revision of the model of support for the arts and definition of the Staff Regulations of the Professionals of the Culture Area is a clear example of this if we make careful reading of their diplomas and the scope of their provisions. I end by saying that there is indeed a debt that democratic Portugal has to bear for the Portuguese. Paying off this debt, through committed, structural, strategic and long-term work, is what moves us, what we do not give up, is the challenge that we renew to this Parliament, in a work that must be and must be of all, the good of a true policy for culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u11	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will enter the stage of the debate, which begins with requests for clarification to the Left Block and probably also to the Minister. To ask for clarifications to the Left Block, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, of the PSD, was registered. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, my compliments. Our first question is indeed addressed to the Left Block. Mrs Catarina Martins, the cultural policy of the government that brings the debate, and very well, has been the same since 2015. It's the same! It's a lot, it's a lot, it's a lot, it's bad, it's great... there we go, but it's always the same. And this policy, which is always the same, has been suffraged, validated and supported by the Left Block, without remorse,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u13	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u14	... that is, several budgets were approved successively, without placing as conditioner, red line or impediment any cultural measure. Here, for once, I will agree, Mrs Minister — once without an example — I have to ask what happened to the Block. If politics is always the same, good or bad, what has changed? The Block? Is it the hand in the conscience or is it the lack of shame? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u15	Mrs. Catarina Martins, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u16	Mr. President, Mr. Paulo Rios, I do not remember the PSD being part of any majority who made any advancement to the right to access to culture in this country,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ... nor any majority who take any step by the basic right of employment contract to which they work in the cultural sector. But I know that when there was a majority to advance, the Left Block was there. We often lost, and the PSD attacked the PS to impose these losses, sometimes we won, as when we guarantee that TDT ( terrestrial digital television) had more channels than RTP... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ...or we created the National Network of Theatres and Cinematories. How long is it missing? Missing. The question is that PSD is always on the side of problems and never solutions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u17	Mrs. Members, there are several entries for requests for clarification to the Minister, more specifically ten, and the Minister has already informed the Bureau that she will respond in two blocks of five requests for clarification. The first block begins with Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Culture, a matter of current importance : the extraordinary social support of culture has ended in the value of 1 IAS ( indexing of social support ). And it ended, at best, because, for many people, it didn't even start, or because they were excluded by unfair criteria or because all kinds of bureaucratic barriers were put to them in access to support or even due to alleged difficulties of communication between the GEPAC (Office of Strategy, Planning and Cultural Assessment), finance and social security. After the exclusion of unpaid members of statutory bodies, the last of these episodes, very recently, was a generalized request for correction of the IBAN ( International Bank Account Number ), to create confusion among the applicants. A few minutes ago, Mrs. Minister, we had the opportunity to confirm several cases of applicants to whom support was denied, despite all requirements being met. There are cases in which the computer system, for example, has registered the request, but it has not been validated, situations often outside those who ask for support determine that people are left unanswered. The PCP defends that no one can stay behind. Therefore, Madam Minister, as proposed by the CFP, in a draft resolution recently approved in the Assembly of the Republic, will the Government extend the support of 1 IAS, because there are still those who need it and will need it in the coming months? Will the government correct exclusion situations? When? As regards the guarantee of culture — and, Madam Minister, I am sorry, but what was in fact coming from the State budget was not 50, but 83 million — we have received complaints of lack of response, either in informal terms or in business. What we would like to ask is when all support will be paid. When you open 2. the support phase, ensuring access to all the funds, in accordance with what we have already referred to, i.e. EUR 83 million, according to the State budget, on a proposal from the CFP? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u19	You have the floor to request clarification from Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u20	Mr President, Madam Minister for Culture, I would like to bring up an issue which, of course, was not present in your speech, although it is in your custody, but also without great surprise, the Minister will know what the subject is. I come to talk to you about bullfighting, specifically, because, in the current context, and under the guidance of the Secretary of State, it seems that the transmission of bullfighting on the public channel will soon be prohibited. And I think that the discussion that has been generated in the public square, if I allow the expression, is poorly placed, because, truly, what is being discussed today is not who likes or does not like tauromachia, it is who thinks that the Tauromachia should be banned and who thinks it is a claim of culture and tradition, that has a place and that no one has the right to ban simply by taste. The subject, obviously not new, has been brought about by approximations, from now on by tax and by regulation, by VAT (tax on value added), with the Minister in her view that this is a civilizational issue and that VAT is, in fact, the right instrument for solving civil issues. Anyway... But they are going to take steps and the latest one now seems to be this attempt to ban the transmission of bull races on RTP. What it seems is that the taste of those in power gives them the prerogative to exercise regulatory power until the ban. For us, this is a very dangerous path, and it is not just for bull machia. It is to accept that the collective has the right to prohibit a cultural expression, because it does not like it, because it does not look in it, is to accept a margin of discretion which begins here, in this restriction of freedom, but will end up in the taste of those who occupy its chair most. That is also why I signed an open letter with other personalities dealing precisely with freedom and the introduction of political power in a public television station, which should be de-governmentalized. So, Mrs Minister, I ask you the following: is there, or is it not, at this moment on the table, the possibility that, explicitly, in the concession contract, the nature of what has happened here, i.e. the editorial possibility of the transmission of bull races in the RTP? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u21	It is the time of Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens. You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Culture, Members of the Government, I begin by welcoming the Left Block for bringing the topic 'cultural policy' to discussion. This is a subject of great relevance, especially in the days that run, since many activities have already resumed, but culture continues with extreme difficulties to resume, difficulties for which several factors compete, including bureaucracy to access support, delay in response to various applications, lack of rules and fear of making investments that may be compromised by uncertainty of the number of infected. In order for the culture to resume its activity, in order to give the opportunity to work to thousands of professionals in the culture sector, Mr. Minister, producers need to know with which « lines can be sewn», i.e. they need to know which rules are being worked to resume the culture, especially the shows that involve the most public and which, in turn, involve more professionals who need clarifications so that they can design, plan and invest. On the other hand, the Guarantee Culture Program opened its candidatures early in April and, as we are already in June, we would like to know if there are still many applications for support to wait for response, because, as you should understand, the delay in the responses may compromise the implementation of the projects. The Greens are also concerned about the lack of human resources that guarantee the normal activity and functioning of public services in the field of culture. Workers are required to ensure the normal functioning of the spaces and their dynamisation, or in some cases it will be necessary to close rooms. But it is also necessary to hire new workers who guarantee the replacement of those who are unemployed or the renewal of tables, so as not to call into question the protection of the transmission of knowledge in such sensitive areas as that of cultural heritage. Is it planned to hire these workers who guarantee the opening, protection, surveillance and preservation of museums, monuments and palaces? Finally, Mrs Minister, the question which today mobilizes the concerns of so many professionals is the following: is the Minister betting on contributing to the continuity of the model of compulsory precariousness, is it not? That is what is enshrined in the proposal for a statute which is in public consultation. Cultural workers demand and deserve stability.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u23	You have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Culture, let's talk about raspadins. The Service of Intervention in Addictions and Dependencies ( SICAD ), which is under the dependence of the Ministry of Health, published yesterday a study defining the typical profile of the wager of "raspadins" in our country. They are typically women of active age and one third of these earn less than 500 € per month. What we've seen is that half of the betters earn less than 1000 € per month. They are therefore people in a situation of greater vulnerability, poorer people, people in difficulty and, many of them, with mental health problems. As the same study says, the abusive game quadrupled in five years, reaching 60 000 people, and the pathological game doubled in five years, reaching 24 000 people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u25	Not a few!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u26	I am speaking of this reality, because the Minister decided to create what she called the 'patrimony lottery', which is nothing more than a 'racapadina', to try to fulfil the State's obligations in the management and preservation of cultural heritage. Portugal spends EUR 1, EUR 7 billion, according to the study last year, more than EUR 4 million per year. You can say to the Minister: 'Other European countries do the same! » But we looked at Spain and they spent, in one year, 600 million euros. When we make a per capita adjustment, we see that, in Portugal, if you spend 160 € per person, per day, in these games, while in Spain you spend 14 €. We spend 12 times more than Spain. Therefore, the Minister understands that, in the face of a problem that affects thousands of families and thousands of people, leaving them in a situation of enormous difficulty because of the mental health problems involved, seeing the State itself encourage people to participate in a game that is clearly addictive and a public health problem is something that shocks and shames us. At least the Robin of the Forests stole the rich to give to the poor. in this case, we see in fact the State withdrawing the poorest, the most vulnerable, making them even more vulnerable, to fulfil a State obligation, which is one of the most taxed States, among the OECD countries ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). [[PSD applause.]] So, Minister, I ask you the following: are you willing to take this idea publicly and categorically? It's that worse than a bad idea is to perpetuate it in time. Is the Minister, who, above all, is wearing a European presidency mask, ready to fight with the Member States, so that no European lottery is created for culture, for the harmful effects it may have on public health? It is that, Mrs. Minister, culture cannot be subject to the tides of luck, even more on account of its gambling. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u27	Only sentences made!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u28	Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, speaks for a final request for clarification before the replies of the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u29	Mr President, Minister for Culture, the workers in the culture sector know where the Left Block has been, over the past few months and the last year. [[PSD Members' laughs.]] We were with them at the gate of Serralves, when they were dismissed by the administration, of which the State is part, or at the door of the House of Music, or when they were on the street, protesting against the cultural policy of this government, or when they no longer had support, which were promised to independent workers and informal workers who did not arrive, or who were promised to the workers of culture, who were excluded from these support because they had the wrong CAE (Code of Economic Activity ). We've been with them! [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] The government already seems to have channelled its urgency to set up a great announcement about a status that precipitated a short negotiating circuit and produced a document that was received with an immense and widespread apprehension and disappointment, because it understood the inconsequence of what was there. It was hoped that the Minister would have the humility to recognize this problem rather than make the speech she made recently. I give you an example: the government has promised unemployment or cessation allowance for all workers in the culture sector. He said there would be protection in intermittent. The unemployment allowance for all workers has not advanced and what is an activity suspension allowance, which is associated with maintaining the green receipt or very short-term contracts and which requires three months without any income for a worker to have access to such protection. That doesn't work, it doesn't protect people and it's absurd to think that someone might be three months without any income and that this is protection. But, above all, Mrs. Minister, there is no strategy for culture without recognizing that work in the area of culture is work and requires contract. The status proposed by the Government has no concrete incentive to conclude contracts, has no concrete incentive to resolve abuse and illegality, which are the standard in this sector. The proposal for a government statute — Article 5 has already been cited. o — says that contracts should be 'preferably', I repeat, 'preferably' to make contracts. « Preferably», Mrs Minister, is a rather indeterminate word and, above all, quite indulgent towards abuse. I would like to ask you in particular whether the practices of Serralves — we know what they are and the Working Conditions Authority also know — are compatible with this concept of the statute: 'preferably' to make contracts. The House of Music, what did it do to the workers, with members in their administration appointed by the State, by the Minister, fit this concept? Does it fit in this fabric of the false outsourcings that currently exist in culture? It is that the work culture, on which Mrs Minister has not said a word, is made of false green receipts, is made of forced entrepreneurship and is made a fabric of false intermediate outsourcings, which are only used to do business to rent precarious workers, with low wages, to perform permanent functions in cultural institutions. Mrs. Minister, I don't know if you have any answers to give, but we would like to send you the report we made on outsourcing in culture. We are going to hand it over to the Minister, and we also ask that the same be distributed to the parliamentary groups, because it is a beautiful portrait of what this government has been conviving with. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u30	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs. Minister of Culture, Graça Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u31	Mr. President, I was asking Mr. Secretary of State for Cinema to begin. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u32	Mr President, in reply to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, on the issue of bulldozers, as I have said, the proposal for a review of the concession contract does not provide for any prohibition on the transmission of peacocks in the RTP. There is no reference to bulldozers in the review of the concession contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u33	Maroto! There, there!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u34	It is only expected that the RTP programme services, in compliance with public service obligations, will promote and respect human rights and environmental sustainability as well as animal welfare, and that the programme director is responsible for the decision on the specific content to be issued in the programme services. It is also noted that this year, the RTP — in fact, still in the current concession contract — has already reported that it has not transmitted, and will not transmit, no Tauromachic event. The autonomy of the programme director exists, there is no act of censorship and there is no prohibition. There is only one decision to promote and respect human rights, the sustainable environment and animal welfare. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u35	Mr. Minister, it is not the Minister who puts the floor to Mr. Secretary of State. You have to ask the Bureau and then the Bureau gives the floor. But I realize that there was a need to respond quickly. You have the floor to Mr. Minister of Culture, to continue the answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u36	Mr. President, I'm sorry. I have, in fact, asked that you be the Secretary of State to begin responding, but, of course, by misunderstanding, you were not told. But thank you very much, Mr President, so I will do next time. I am grateful for the different issues that have been raised. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] I would like to begin with the questions put by the Portuguese Communist Party, regarding the Culture Guarantee Program and the support of the IAS. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] You're very excited here on my right side. I would like to reply, Mrs Deputies, that, as I have already said several times, the Guarantee Culture Programme results from a proposal made by the Portuguese Communist Party in the context of the dialogue for the State budget. We started, as you know, with the sum of EUR 42 million, that we recently strengthened with EUR 11 million, so we strengthened it for the overall value of EUR 53 million, precisely so that, as I have always said at this first stage, it is possible to support all projects that are eligible for support. at this time, around EUR 10 million of the projects already approved are paid, with part of the funding, as you know, through the Institute of Tourism of Portugal and the other through GEPAC. This week more projects will be paid and we are paying, as you know, what corresponds to the first 50 % of the projects that have been submitted and that are validated. That is what is in the regulation and what is also in the State budget. Regarding IAS support, as mentioned above, around 10 000 support has been paid between April, May and June. As you know, Mrs Deputy, 3 IAS have been approved for April, May and June, and the government is not planning to extend this support, as you have already said. So at the moment, we are finishing the payment of all these 10 000 support. On matters relating to the status, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Left Block, record with great enthusiasm that the Left Block has proposed to improve the status of cultural professionals. I have said this many times and I will repeat it again and again whenever necessary: the only aim of the Government is to adopt a statute that is appropriate to the reality and needs that, for too many decades, all require, i.e., that there is a global status in Portugal and that it responds to the question of social disprotection, precariousness and the need for greater stability for all workers. It will certainly not have been by chance that it is the first time that a democracy government adopts a global status which contains a social protection regime. It is certainly not coincidence, because it is not really an easy work, it is a complex work, which requires a lot of dialogue, which requires many meetings, which requires us to hear and, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it requires to go beyond Lisbon and Porto — the country is not only Lisbon and Porto — it also requires to realize what is happening in the rest of the country. I will therefore read with great interest the report that you are giving us. Members have done, I hope it is not just about Lisbon and Porto, because it is the kind of work that we need to do. In fact, I recall — in the initial speech, it was also mentioned — that this government, for the first time, asked the Portuguese Observatory for Cultural Activities to be investigated and mapped to the cultural circle. I believe that this has been — as you know and quoted in your speech — accompanied by the work of drafting the statute. This is the work that the Observatory has been doing, that the Block will certainly have done and that we continue to do, I insist, throughout the country and not only in Lisbon and Porto. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the statute creates, for the first time, an activity suspension allowance for all those who today do not have any social protection. If the gentlemen. Members believe that the three-month period for, let us say, creating that need that we have of involuntaryness, as we have discussed, is a lot, so the Government is waiting for the Left Block proposals for this matter. As we have already said, at various times, we are available to transform, to change, to adapt, to adjust. The public consultation ends on 17th of this month and therefore we are all very long in time to introduce the necessary amendments. But let us all have the following notion: in Portugal — it is our conviction — a moment and a historic opportunity to adopt a global status for the culture sector for the first time and together. Let us not waste this moment, work together, instead of working for the mirror. We work together with each other, that is what I propose to all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u37	We're going into the second group of requests for clarification. To that end, Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u38	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing culture policies. We cannot take this opportunity to talk about this new status of cultural professionals, who are currently in public consultation and which is an old — as old as fair — claim of cultural professionals. On this status there is a great hope, basically, that this problem of inequality will be solved. In fact, the time to approve this statute is 2021 — it has been too long. But despite this urgency and the unique moment we are going through, as we told the Minister, we hope that this will be a weighted, responsible process developed in a democratic and transparent manner, listening to the suggestions of the representatives of the sector and understanding their difficulties. The rules laid down in this new statute have been the subject of some challenge or mobilization by various sectors of culture, seeking to express their concerns. Of course, he could not fail to signal two of them, reiterating that there must be availability of the Government, in this case of the Minister, to review them. One is clearly bound by the obligation of the three months without work, which has already been spoken here. It will be impossible for anyone living in this sector, under these conditions, to be able to pay their expenses for three months and to have to wait for that period in order to have access to a subsidy after having had a contribution period of six months. We also hope that there will be an opening by the government to discuss these aspects which have been listed by industry professionals as critical aspects in this statute from 180 days to 18 months. But we would also like to make it clear here that, in fact, it is not enough to approve a status of cultural professionals unless there is an opening in the State budget of 2022 which guarantees the necessary answers for these professionals. We would therefore like to hear the Minister talk about the future of culture in Portugal, particularly with regard to the next State budget. My next comment is addressed to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa who has constantly ignored the role of the Telespector Provider. We remember the complaints or complaints that have reached the successive viewer providers regarding the transmission of tourdas on public television. The honourable Member continues to ignore the recommendations of the UN ( United Nations ), particularly with regard to the rights of children, in the sense that they are not exposed to forms of violence such as Tauromachic activities in Portugal. The honourable Member also seems to ignore the opinion of the Order of Portuguese Psychologists, who has repeatedly said this. It seems that it ignores a study that was made by the ProToiro Association itself,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u39	Where's the study? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u40	... where most people who like touring said that they agreed that these were not broadcast on public television. On May 16 it was held in Portugal — we were all able to watch — a girl in Azambuja, during which several people were present, without masks, without social distance. But the most serious of this was, in fact, a child from a bull school who handled a bull of 380 kg.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u41	And who commands the child? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u42	In the light of the warnings of the Committee on the Rights of the Children for these forms of violence, and following the intervention made, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, we would like to know whether it is Mrs Deputies who, if anything happens to our children in Portugal, will be responsible for these events.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u43	You have the floor to ask for clarifications from the PSD Parliamentary Group Mr Alexandre Poço.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mrs Minister, it is difficult to believe that any initiative taken by the Ministry of Culture can have any positive impact on the situation in the culture sector. The PSD, unlike the Left Block, is not now surprised by the situation we have reached. Just listen to what the sector's agents say, it is enough to pay attention to the reality, particularly in this pandemic year, to realize that there is something that needs to be done is very good will to continue to believe in any type of programme or initiative that comes from you. On the other hand, the VATucher programme has recently announced, with a lot of pump and circumstances, as usual in the Socialist Government. Today, surprisingly, it did not mention the impact of this programme on the culture sector, but, as we all know, its budget allocation of EUR 200 million, 7 has already been spent only on setting it up in 1. This year's quarter. We also know that the programme was urgent and that that is why it will start to have an impact, either in the housing and restoration sector and, in particular, in the case of culture, almost a year after its announcement. So, Mrs Minister, I ask you very directly: knowing that you have already spent 7 million euros on operating a programme that also concerns you, can you assure us that the impact this programme will have on the culture sector will be greater than what has been spent just to mount it? Or is it just another program that, in a year and a half, we will conclude that it has not changed anything and that, as you are already saying in the culture sector, it is another palliative, it is another excellent announcement that, at the end of the day, nothing will bring about the culture sector and its agents? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u45	Mr Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the Government continues to fail to provide the necessary response to address the lack of workers in DGPC ( Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage ), in regional cultural directions. The CFP has long defended the hiring of these workers and the government continues not to respond, not because of lack of proposals, but because of a lack of political will to solve a problem affecting all areas of museums and cultural heritage. Still this week we learned that the exhibition rooms of the National Museum of Ancient Art were closed, making it impossible to enjoy and visit the citizens. The SIPA ( Information System for the Architectural Heritage ), Archive of the Forte de Sacavem, has only two photographers of works of art, and in addition to being manifestly insufficient for the work that is necessary to do, they are both close to retirement age and if there is no hiring of new ones there is no transmission of experience, of knowledge that has been gained over the years, which means a loss of this same knowledge. The National Museum of Archaeology is without designers, because the last designer retired and was not replaced. In the heritage, in the museums, in the palaces, in monuments and archaeological sites, there are no vigilantes, receptionists, Conservatives, restorators, archaeologists, computer technicians, photography, personnel in the administrative and financial area and the educational service, and this is indeed a chronic shortage, and that demands government responses that do not sympathize with the use of pockets—as the Government has announced—but that they require, yes, the hiring of workers with rights and a career linked to public service. In addition to this problem of lack of employment, there is also the problem of ageing workers who are in office. There is no rejuvenation and all this knowledge, all this experience, if there is no such rejuvenation, they will not have transmission and will be lost. Therefore, the question, Minister, is exactly this: what measures? When is the government going to hire these workers—of course without incentive and fighting all forms of precarious ties—by guaranteeing their rights and integrating them into a career with public ties? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u47	You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr Jorge Costa, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u48	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, there are those who believe that the debate on public radio and television services is summed up in discussing the need to broadcast shows of animal suffering in open channels and at any time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u49	It's two TDT channels!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u50	That is not our opinion. We believe that these shows are even incompatible with the notion of public service and should be eliminated from the RTP. Moreover, in the proposal for a concession contract submitted by the Government, this reference to animal welfare is of the few virtues to be recorded. What, then, stands out in the Government's proposal for the RTP concession contract? The creation of two new programme services — a youth channel and a channel of knowledge — the professional strengthening of information from Antenna 1, the inclusion of RTP Africa on terrestrial digital television and the fact that the Government still intends to withdraw advertising from all channels of public service except RTP1. This means that between the increase in expenditure — EUR 13 million — and the breakdown of revenue — EUR 3, EUR 5 million, the obligations provided for in this contract open a hole of EUR 16, EUR 5 million in the RTP budget. He is the President of the RTP Board of Directors himself who recognises, and I quote: «... that this contract raises a management problem ». Nicolau Santos said here in Parliament: "Of course, we are faced with scarce resources and spending to increase to produce the same or even more". There is also a problem of credibility in these accounts. In addition to minimizing the costs foreseen for the new channels, the Government manages to anticipate an increase in advertising revenues when it excludes advertising on all channels except RTP1. The accounts simply do not strike correctly and therefore the government leaves the creation of new channels to the freedom of administration — to decide whether or not it launches the new channels — according to Mr Nuno Artur Silva, Secretary of State here in Parliament. Therefore, the Government does not fully assume the contractual definition of public service obligations and its financing, it merely sends the new administration to a budget austerity management, with navigation in view and with the concession contract as a mere indication. Those who are already being called to sacrifice are the workers of the RTP because, when we look at the multi-year account picture of the RTP, the freeze of careers until 2024 is maintained and professional reframework and the solution for workers to the green receipt, which continue to exist in large numbers at the RTP. In fact, this is what the Secretary of State told us, in committee, on 4 May. In view of the necessary strengthening of the RTP's budget, it replied that expenditure needs to be included. It is not the Left Block that will oppose the elimination of advertising in the public service. We have nothing against the weight relief of advertising in the RTP. But there can be no more rush to increase the share of advertising in the private media than to ensure financial support for public service obligations. So my questions are two and very simple. First: are the concession contract clauses mandatory to comply with or are only mere indications that the company's board of directors will meet or not? Secondly, how does the Government solve the 16 million hole that it wants to open in the RTP accounts and which, in its most essential, compromise the fulfilment of public service obligations? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u51	For clarifications, Mrs Fernanda Velez of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic establishes as a fundamental principle freedom of artistic and cultural creation, as well as the universal use of cultural goods, and it is up to the State to ensure that everyone has access to the various cultural manifestations. It is therefore not up to the State, nor any State servant, whether Prime Minister, Minister, Secretary of State or Director-General, to determine which cultural manifestations should be adopted by whoever it is. If we were to do so, then we would be creating a regime that, rather than be governed by the rule of law, would be governed by the preference, fashion or preferred guidance of the member of the government to protect culture at any time. This type of procedure is not acceptable in a rule of law such as ours, because it is confined to other forms of totalitarian, antidemocratic and intolerant government. You see this about what has happened in recent times, i.e. to determine that certain cultural manifestations and expressions, admitted and regulated by law, are not appropriate or even tolerated, just because some people in positions of responsibility understand that they should not take place in our society. This arrogant, sober and intolerant attitude reveals a lack of respect for the plurality and freedom of cultural and artistic use that does not dignify our democracy. Mr. Minister, with regard to the transmission of tours in the RTP, the channel that all Portuguese pay, which is most unbearable is the sound form as all this is done, an encapsulated form, including a general animal clause in the RTP concession contract. It would be better, Mrs Minister, to take the ban on the transmission of tours on the public television channel, paid by all of us, and the Socialist Government to pay the political price of that decision. I ask you, Minister : will you continue to discriminate negatively against some cultural manifestations and expressions, conditioning your access and your use, only because you do not like or do not accept such performances, such as, for example, the Tauromachia, the traditional circus or, who knows, any other artistic expression that degrades your Exa or the radical minorities who press and sustain the government? There are limits, Mrs. Minister! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u53	Also to ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Mara Coelho of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u54	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, it is for us to praise that cultural policy can be debated in the Chamber today, which simply did not exist before the Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Members' laughs.]] Today, we have also mixed concepts here to devalue what only this one, and only this one, Ministry had the ability to achieve and which is a concrete fact. The best way to combat the precariousness and insecurity of the professionals in the culture sector is to listen to them, it is to gather with them, as we have done, a document that, not being the magic recipe for all the problems of the sector and of all the workers of culture, is a diploma that will allow, once and for all, to ensure that, in the future, nothing will happen in the way that has happened this time and that has given sight to the vulnerabilities that have already existed in the sector and new vulnerabilities that have arisen with the pandemic. We know that there was a lack of social protection for these professionals, and this was the government who had the political courage to draw it and materialize it through the status of cultural professionals. I remember, ladies. Members, this is just a very old claim from the sector and represents a true State policy for culture and its professionals, which integrates a professional registration component, a work regime component and a contribution regime component. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, if precariousness and intermittentness are the « wind of storms », we cannot postpone this mechanism which is recognised by everyone as essential or so little to reduce its application. Through the registration, it will allow the same individual identification and will respond to a need, also identified by the sector, that passes through mapping and a greater knowledge of national reality. For the PS, it has been clear the need to respond seriously to the protection of workers in periods when they are not providing any activity, so a new subsidy is created and also another longer subsidy for those who are aged 55 or over, which is, in our view, greater justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also welcome the speedy payment of contributions to social security through the holding in the source. And when we are accused of precipitation, we say that it is planning, because it is planned to set up a committee to monitor the implementation of this statute, which shows that this opening process does not end at the end of the public discussion, which started a year ago, and which goes far beyond that. So, Minister, my questions are the following: will this statute, together with other cross-cutting measures of the Government, serve one of the designs stated in the Government Programme, to combat precariousness? How will the monitoring be done? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u55	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State of Cinema, Audiovisual and Media have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u56	Mr President, in response to Mr Jorge Costa's question as to whether the proposed revision of the concession contract concerns obligations or indications, they are neither one thing nor the other are guiding principles. The current concession contract, which is in force, also provided for the creation of channels, in particular a channel of music and up to a channel of knowledge, which was already mentioned there too. simply, these channels can only be achieved if the conditions exist and if the board of directors understands that the conditions are met to achieve them. That is how concession contracts work and that is how they will continue to work. There will be no budgetary imbalance in RTP accounts. What are guiding principles that define the conceptual framework in which RTP should work. To that end, it is essential that the financial conditions be met so that this project can be implemented, that contract. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as the hole you referred to is concerned, there will obviously be no hole. What is the government's responsibility is, with the board of directors, that it will have to sign the future concession contract, to find the financial conditions for fulfilling the project as it can be carried out. For that, obviously, there are instruments. The audiovisual contribution is the immediate instrument, but we must not forget that in a year of particular financial difficulties it is with great caution that we have to ask the Portuguese for an additional effort. In any event, the inflation rate is expected to be updated, as is expected to increase the share capital that is due to RTP, i.e. there are instruments to be used for the increase in the RTP budget, which we will certainly do in the next Budget. A brief reference to Mrs Fernanda Velez's request for clarification, which insists on the idea that the government will ban the tourdas. Mrs Deputy, there is no prohibition. What I'd like to ask is whether the honourable Member and the honourable Members are here. Members find it wrong that, in the concession contract, a reference is made to the promotion and respect for human rights, environmental sustainability and animal welfare. Do you think it's wrong that this reference is written in the contract?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u57	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u58	That's all you're doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u59	To continue to reply, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, answering the other questions, I begin by putting the PSD on VATucher. Mr Alexandre Poço, VATucher has, in fact, been announced by the Minister of State and Finance, an overall budget of EUR 200 million, and it is an innovative measure in times that require different measures from us. In times when we were surprised, this is indeed an innovative measure. This is a measure that brings together three sectors particularly affected by the pandemic — restoration, housing and culture. This is perhaps the first time that these three sectors come together in a single measure of a so-called fiscal nature. It is very important for us that this is the case, from the point of view of support that can mean for cultural activities throughout the country, with this tax credit that we will all receive. It is also very important to highlight the following: the tax credit that exists and will be used can result from a trip to a restaurant to be used in an entrance to a theatre. This means that there is a complementarity between these three sectors, which, for me, is important not only for what it represents as an incentive for more people to enjoy cultural equipment and acquire cultural goods, but also for what it represents, from the perspective of the future, to put culture and the cultural sector as an important sector for economic and social development in combination with other very important sectors, such as restoration and housing. With regard to'responsibility', Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, his position is understood only if the Member proposes to put an end to'responsibility', otherwise he does not understand what the matter is.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u61	They're all addicted!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u62	If you come to defend the end of the raspadinas in Portugal, then I will understand your position. If you do not, then you certainly have a prejudice against culture and you have a problem with cultural heritage, because that is the only way you understand this position.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u63	I have a problem with the state encouraging the game!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u64	Sir, let's be serious! The Government has just approved a recovery plan that has EUR 150 million to invest in cultural heritage. It is EUR 150 million for, in many decades, investing in cultural heritage, recovering museums, recovering wealth for which you did nothing during your government. The ‘scarp’ is only a mechanism, like others that exist,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u65	Use the others! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u66	...but it's not a source of funding. Sir, let's be serious! I would like to ask you to stop the raspadinas in Portugal and then I will understand your position. Until then, honourable Member, only a prejudice against culture can move that position!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u67	It's a shame! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u68	With regard to DGPC issues and employment in museums and monuments, it is indeed a very relevant question and we have tried to resolve at different levels. On the one hand, as I said here, the scientific employment programme was finally opened this week with the first phase of the scientific employment grants. It is a program that will have 100 doctoral scholarships and 30 work contracts for museums and monuments throughout the country. It is an effort we are making in conjunction with the Foundation for Science and Technology so that all museums, and in particular the laboratories of heritage, are endowed with human resources, experts, experts, who can, precisely, ensure the passage of knowledge to those we have today, which guarantee the dynamization of laboratories and which, for the future, can solve the problem that has happened in museums. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is something, Mrs Deputies, which we consider essential, but which does not resolve all the issues you have raised. At the same time, we have worked with the Ministry of Modernization of the State and Public Administration to build a programme that identifies all needs—and we know what the museums and monuments are — not only on the issue that they put here, at the level of the vigilantes, but also at the level of superior technicians. We have talked very little about superior technicians, but they are necessary in museums and monuments. That is why this programme is very important. Scientific employment is very important, but it is also very important, for the future, to renew the frameworks. We need, of course, guards for all museums and monuments, but we also need to provide the respective tables of senior technicians. With regard to the issues raised on the status, I would point out again what I said here a little more than a month ago — I have been here a little longer than a month ago, precisely talking about the status and the diplomas which were approved at the Council of Ministers on 22 April. We then started this discussion that we are having today and that, of course, we will always have the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen will understand. As regards the statute, what has been approved is under public discussion. With regard to the fight against green receipts, it includes strengthening the presumption of the existence of the technical or artistic work contract - we have created the proper regime for monitoring and regularizing situations that set up false services between ACT and IGAC ( General Inspection of Cultural Activities ). I remember that it was created — this is very important, ladies and gentlemen. Members, although the question has not been raised — a contribution rate of 5, 1 % for all entities that hire service providers in the field of culture. And no, it's not just for those who want, it's even mandatory, under any circumstances. This rate of 5, 1 % will always be compulsory in any situation; it is not a possibility, it is an obligation. And more: for the first time, in a diploma on this subject, something very important has been done and that long ago it was requested, which is precisely the possibility of converting the value of the receipt into days of guarantee for access to the grant of suspension of activity. This was something that, for a long time, was asked by all the professional entities in the sector for an obvious reason: because it has to be a fair regime and that takes into account what is the nature of artistic work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we are creating is something that does not exist in Portugal, that does not exist for any more professional sector. No worker in Portugal has the regime we are setting up here, in which the working hours correspond to days for the guarantee period for access to a social support allowance. Such exists in no other sector, it is something that is unpublished and that is very important to the sector. I repeat what I said, it is indeed a pity that the Left Block did not vote in favour of the State budget. As I said at the outset, this is, of course, a decision by each parliamentary group and on this matter much has been said. [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] What is really sad is that the word 'culture' has not been written in what was handed over to the government for the purpose of negotiating the State budget, because it would have been very important that this signal had been given. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what I hope, and I really hope, very sincerely, is that today's debate is a sign that, for 2022 — a year that will certainly still be difficult for the culture sector — the Left Block emerges with proposals in relation to what should be the work in the cultural and artistic sector in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u69	Mr Alexandra Vieira of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : The cultural structures, from cinema to museums, palaces and monuments, require many people to function and open to the public. They require teams with different valences, with many functions, from educational services, room assistants, security, guards, technicians for various order maintenance and specializations related to the different areas of conservation and restoration. And it takes a long time, stability and predictability to work together and develop projects in the institutions in which they are involved. They require teams with stable links. The promised digital transition, in the case of heritage, may make it possible to update the computer equipment, software networks, management, and the hiring of computer technicians, improving communication, mediation, file and availability of the reference acquis. And it will allow new essential practices, but the truth is, in this area, as in many others, the digitization of processes does not make people in different areas and specialities indispensable. The announced funds do not solve the problem of lack of human resources and specific careers, the necessary rejuvenation of workers and the essential passage of knowledge between generations, which has already been proved that it is not solved by the use of scholarships and other forms of precariousness. If anyone doubted the lack of wealth workers, the closure of rooms due to the lack of vigilantes in the most prominent of the Portuguese museums, the National Museum of Ancient Art, is enlightening. on Tuesday, the museum, again, closed rooms of the permanent exhibition due to the lack of vigilantes. The rooms should be closed until September. The situation is not only new, as is predictable. Don't you see a deep contradiction here? On the one hand, the PRR, the Government, recognizes the economic value of museums, palaces and monuments, considering economic assets, but on the other hand, interministerial coordination is delayed and structural changes are not seen in the sense of autonomy of museums, palaces and monuments. Is it the'strengthening' of the heritage that will be the magic solution for the underfunding of museums, palaces and monuments, when it is already known that they are the citizens, more specifically the older and less educated citizens, the main consumers of this game, who also have addictive characteristics? Therefore, the view of heritage is maintained as the chicken of the golden eggs that attracts tourists and the wrong solution of the « raspadina». Rehabilitation, yes, and urgent, but also human resources and autonomy, and none of it is poured into the PRR, nor does it appear to be on the horizon of the Ministry of Culture or Government. The cyclical injections of European funds into cultural infrastructures were essential to modernise the sector, but by their nature they do not finance the hiring of medium- or long-term workers. This is a function of national budgets, because they are long-term responsibilities. And it is responsibilities that the Portuguese State, through successive governments, has refused to assume since the turn of the century. In the museum and heritage sector, historically with frameworks integrated in the State's organics, the resilience to abandonment was comparatively greater, but today we have already exceeded the time limit when the knowledge of the reformers can be transmitted to new generations, because there is no one there to learn from who is leaving. Ms. Minister, is it available to review the career of senior technician at DGPC, too generalist and that does not translate the real human resources needs in the different areas of heritage, from the conservation and restoration technician, the archivist, the librarian, to the different and specific restoration areas? Does the Minister know that the integration of precarious workers into museums, palaces and monuments does not always solve the problem of human resources, given the working conditions, at the end of the week and on holidays, in permanent shortage of workers, and with high levels of exhaustion, and that, at the first opportunity, they use internal mobility? Does the Minister know that every time an archaeological trace or a chapel is destroyed, or is a republishment for lack of temperature and humidity, or wears out a high relief, it is heritage that is permanently lost, irremediablely, and that this is a specificity of heritage? Does the Minister admit that all these issues are based on the finding that the lack of autonomy of museums, palaces and monuments is financial, whether as far as physical spaces are concerned, or as far as human resources are concerned? That is why the creation of a body-couple, as a public institute of museums, palaces and monuments, would allow the bureaucratic and paralysing giantism of DGPC to be deconcentrated. On the report drawn up by the Group of the Museums in the Future, will the Minister take into account her 50 recommendations, including the creation of the institute that brings together all museums, palaces and monuments, and thus, in fact, making possible the law of the autonomy of the museums and the guidelines and priorities identified? Without a programme for the allocation of workers with stable links, announcements of modernisation investments are no more than biombos to hide problems that we all know and that the government insists on ignoring. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u71	Mr Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister : Subfinancing, precariousness and fragility of the links of technical and artistic work, low wages and caches, not recognizing, for remuneration purposes, components such as study, research or creation, deregulation of working hours, poor reforms, high unemployment rates and abandonment of the profession—all these marks of labour reality in culture have been aggravated, but have not begun in March 2020, they are some of the consequences of the insistence of right policy on culture, implemented over the decades. And it is curious that the PSD now speaks of the « raspadina» with so much enthusiasm, because it abstained in the vote on the proposed State budget law in which it contained precisely this question of « raspadina ». In the Council of Ministers of 22 April 2021, the Government announced the adoption of a set of diplomas for the cultural and artistic sector. In general they are measures that do not bring effective State accountability, nor do they deepen any prospect of public service of culture, as appropriate and as necessary. Once again, the disarticulation, the punctual and non-structural charis­tion and the strengthening of European funds. in this meeting, it was also announced the so-called status of professionals in the area of culture. As presented, the CFP considers that it is a document that does not meet the needs of those who work in the arts and culture. The Government opts to consolidate the legislative framework resulting from Law No 4 / 2008, a tool of precariousness and exploitation, which entails standards even more serious than those of the Labour Code and which are not excommunicated from the proposal in public consultation. Although it may still be changed, the fact is that the proposal, structurally, involves a vision in which precariousness is maintained and normalized; in which it continues to be more advantageous, for those who hire, to use green receipts; in which the balance of social security can be compromised by the establishment of an autonomous fund, without guarantees of self-sustainability. In addition, it is a model that does not solve any of the fundamental problems that are placed on the workers of the arts and culture, which are related to the nature and characteristics of the work performed, the type of contracts and the links to which they are subject, the low and irregular wages, the instability of the contribution career and the access and amount of social benefits. It is necessary to distinguish seasonality and, even, punctuality of the work paid from the absence of work, because there are components that extravagant the moments of presentation and which, so far, have not been considered, but cannot be forgotten. The Government points to a misimported concept of intermittentness to not have to solve this problem and makes a proposal that cannot be a real status because it covers so many, so many different professions that can only be answered by general legislation. Mr Minister, yes, it is necessary to fully comply with the proposals of the State budget; yes, it is necessary to comply with its full dimension, particularly up to the amounts. But that's not enough, it needs more. It is necessary to go further, ensuring the rupture with decades of right-wing policy and the option, in culture, by a patriotic and left-wing policy. The CFP argues that the valorisation of workers and work in the arts and culture requires recognition of the existence of rights, employment contracts, the creation of conditions for these workers to be integrated into the social security system; the modification of the inspection action by the ACT and the end of precariousness in the public and private; the end of the abuse of the use of grants and end-of-term contracts to meet permanent needs; the end of chronic underfunding; the modification of the model of public support for the arts; the construction of a true public service of culture throughout the territory, carrying out a project of effective cultural decentralization, with technical, financial and valued workers. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, culture is work, and work has to be with rights. The CFP is and will be in this fight, alongside the workers of culture. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u73	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u74	Mr President, Madam Minister, it will not be wrong that, before I address you, answer Mrs Bebiana Cunha, who asked me with a direct question. Without a depressor for Mrs.Minister, I would like to tell Mrs.Minister, very clearly, that, thanks to God and to the legal system, we do not reign by her moral motto, but we have a law, and it is that law that answers the question you have put. Mrs. Minister, I would like to talk now about museums, palaces and national monuments, which has also been widely discussed here. If you remember, since the discussion of the State budget that I have asked you several times, how would you expect the promise or what is included in the State budget, from the point of view of increasing the revenue of tickets, if you would come to realize, given that this is a particularly difficult year, with closures due to the COVID. Moreover, Article 254 was approved at the initiative of the CFP in the State budget. the, which in its paragraph 1 states that in 2021 the Government adopts measures necessary to extend the free entry into the national museums, palaces and monuments under its protection, on Sundays and holidays, for all residents in national territory. I have doubts about how these things are compatible, but this weekend I ended up having a light: I went to visit the exhibition on D. Maria II, which is in the National Aid Palace, which Mr. Maria II opened, and very well—D. Maria II was patron of the arts, as the Minister would already know and how the exhibition makes it clear—and which is not my surprise when I go to the ticket office and I became aware that the entry was paid. It is €5 for all residents in national territory, on Sunday, through an order from the Director-General of DGPC, contrary to the State budget, but perhaps allowing such additional revenue, because they increase the funds of the State budget. Madam Minister, I do not question the need nor the rationality of this decision, and I think it may be an interesting place for, for example, as discussed here, to use the VATucher recipe, which Mrs Minister mentioned here. It might even be a good place to redeem that tax bonus. But I would like the Minister to explain how a rule of the State budget is compatible with this. I know it's a temporary exhibition, but it's a temporary exhibition that brings together a collection, particularly of the National Aid Palace and a large part of the National Museum of Ancient Art, both under its protection. And speaking about the National Museum of Ancient Art, which has already been brought to discussion, I know that the Minister is well aware of the difficulties of the museum, who knows that it is a museum with a covered area of 4 ha and with two buildings. In the most recent building, which, despite everything, is 80 years old, there are infiltrations on the roof, which means that it is necessary to remove paintings and sculptures, for the protection and preservation of this heritage, that this prevents these rooms from being visited, that these infiltrations, yes, day, no, generate problems in the electric frame, that goes below and makes other rooms stay in the dark and that cannot be visited either. So far nothing more dramatic has happened than this, but the risk exists. I also know that the Minister must be aware that, since the air conditioning system did not have maintenance, the former books that are the S. Vicente de Fora Panels were this week under a temperature of 24 degrees, when they should be below 21 degrees, which poses several problems. Mrs. Minister, I was talking to you about our main national museum! I imagine what will happen to the rest! In addition, we have the news that came this week to the public about the lack of vigilantes, but also of conservatives and technicians, which make it difficult, for example, to keep the two entrances open. Madam Minister, I conclude by asking you whether the best answer Mrs Minister has is that which DGPC is giving, which is "we are aware of all this, but this requires technical and financial resources that are not available. So let's wait until the PRR comes." I ask you, then, if we will wait until the PRR comes, which we do not know when it will arrive. We spent the summer, we very much wish the tourists — come them, come them — but we certainly returned to the paradigm only the beach, and now also football, because, surely, it will not be to direct them to the largest national museum, which has no conditions. I will finish, Madam Minister, by asking you one last question, which has to do with summer festivals. I know that the Development Bank and the Ministry of Culture are working with the promoters of summer festivals and other major events in order to have a credit line for a ticket fund, which was a sector claim and is being worked. Producers and agents expect, but finally, perhaps with a valid hope that it will also be designed for them some measure, but we are still waiting for DGS ( Directorate-General for Health) standards to know whether or not there will be summer festivals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u75	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u76	I'm done, yes, Mr. President. Apparently, there will be the parties of the popular saints, says the Director-General, since people have good sense. At the festivals, we can count on the normative. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u77	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Parliamentary Group 'The Greens' has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Much has already been said in this debate about cultural policy, and is sure that it remains fragile and uncertain, even when it is culture that saves us, when isolation and loneliness are imposed on us. Culture is art and knowledge, it is creative and interventional force, it is critical and participatory construction, it is entertainment, but it is also education and awareness. Culture creates community dynamics and generates jobs. Culture is an integral part of our identity and is a pillar of democracy. Despite the unanimous recognition of the importance of culture in its various aspects, the truth is that over the years it has been completely secondary and targeted by successive Governments of PSD/CDS and PS. The Greens argue that a path is taken to attain the fair investment of 1 % of the State budget for culture. However, at present, it is still far from that, questioning the development, and often the very survival of the cultural fabric and limited moments, such as the epidemic we live in, reflect this disinvestment, this fragility, in the rawest way. Cultural professionals have also been deeply whipped. The precariousness and deregulation of artistic and cultural work have reached such a dimension that it has drawn to the so-called 'informality' thousands of workers, who have gone to false green receipts. These structural weaknesses, the result of political options to devalue culture, led to this sector being one of the most sacrificed in time of the pandemic. The decision to cancel and postpone artistic activities and to close the equipment increased the problems of the sector, enhanced by the instability of many structures that support and operate in this area. In addition to the creation in the various areas, culture is also material and immaterial heritage, built, museological, monumental, industrial, archaeological, natural and landscaped, whether it is classified or not. Culture requires policies of preservation, safeguard, scientific study, appreciation and dissemination, which recognize and dignify intrinsic and identity values present in it, also recognizing its educational and development role. The Greens reject the deresponsibility of the State of the defense of cultural heritage and therefore consider it urgent to hire human and material resources for the protection and preservation of heritage, which cannot be subject to degradation and abandonment, because it will mean a impoverishment of identity. It is urgent to define another direction of cultural support, which ensures the freedom and diversity of artistic creation, which encourages its professionals, which stimulates amateur and recreational projects, for which associationivism is decisive. It is essential to ensure the democratization of use and access to culture. The Greens will continue to argue that the State cannot take responsibility for the guarantee of an effective public policy for culture as enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u79	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Aragão has the floor. Please, Mr Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u80	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Maybe we don't remember anymore, but we started this legislation with an urgent debate required by the CFP on the DGArts competition and the model of support for the arts. At the time, in November 2019 — and how that seems so far away! — we discussed what had been advanced in the last legislation : the increase by 83 % in support of the arts between 2015 and 2019, the increase by 17 % between the last two-year competitions and what was to be done by 2020 / 2021. But we were far from imagining what was going to happen, a huge health crisis that settled down and the huge consequences that would bring to the culture sector in Portugal, Europe and the world. It was therefore absolutely essential to provide emergency responses. And here we are also very clear: for the first time, the response to a crisis has not been more or less cut, it has been more or less supportive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this is an absolutely substantial change in how to deal with a crisis. But let us give concrete examples. Support for eligible entities in 2021 and 2022 in such tender for the 2019 emergency debate which had not been financed or the extension of such funding by 2022 to the eligible entities is only one example. To these support others have been added, such as the creation of an exclusive support for cultural professionals, regardless of their contribution career. Or the unique possibility of this sector is cumulatively supported by specific measures and by cross-cutting measures to other sectors of the economy. Privilege? Not at all! It is from the most basic justice to a sector that we all recognize has a huge need for structure. But "remove the clothes" and stay around here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's very little. We must also recognise that what has already been advanced or supported is at no time a refuge for what is yet to be done. The coldness of the large numbers is often insensitive to the individual problems of many of these professionals, but we do not have the right, we do not even have the right, to politically benefit from this — Mrs Catarina Martins, allow me to quote — and to make this our only policy with deep disrespect. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So let us remember the topic of this debate, cultural policy, and honestly answer the question: is there cultural policy? There!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u81	Don't! There isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u82	The question was not rhetorical and I really expected that question. Is there still much to do? No doubt! And it's this part of the debate, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you must be careful. This huge amount of work is gaining substance in the effort of the structural measures. Much of this structure will take time to consolidate and deliver results. We need artists and all the professionals of culture and therefore a statute that, for the first time, protects them and sets them. We're doing it. We need stage and space, and network spaces, which enhance the opportunities for these professionals, a network of theaters and theaters—we are promoting it. And we need sustainable projects and so we're reviewing the model of support for the arts. But you have reached more than half the debate, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then return to this cultural policy. How many concrete proposals have we heard in this debate? Say one, a concrete proposal! We already know what they do not agree with, we already know what they do not like, we already know what they criticize, but we will move forward to the next part of the debate. So let us go to these concrete answers and end them in a simple way. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We may not agree with them, we may disagree, but we will finally be discussing it, and that is what this debate is for. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u83	For an intervention, Mrs Filipa Roseta of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u84	Mr President, we are indeed living a unique moment of European cultural policy. It has never happened and is probably not going to happen again: we have all the money that Europe sends us and we have the European Parliament who unanimously approves that 2% of this money, about 300 million, is for the cultural professionals. It never happened. It won't happen again. And what does Portugal do? At the moment we are with the Presidency of the Council, Portugal does not comply with the resolution of the European Parliament. It does not comply with the resolution adopted in September 2020, almost a year ago! Very honestly, in addition to all rhetoric, I have great difficulty in understanding. How do you explain this? This is not adjective, which gives us the money, says that 2 %, 300 million, is for growers. And note that it is for producers to continue to produce, they say! In September 2020, they say to be careful with the informals, they say it is to have orders not to stay at home, it is to have production, to continue playing, to continue dancing, not to lose the European cultural fabric. This says unanimously that the European Parliament and Portugal fail to do so. From here it is very difficult to understand. That is why the PSD, in December 2020, proposed a resolution here in the Assembly, to enforce the resolution of the European Parliament, which was adopted by all parliamentary groups, less by the Socialist Party. Well, we couldn't understand, and people out there have to know about this. And when they tell us that there is finally a culture package—and we thought it was a PSD victory—let's see and of the 240 million... [[Protests of PS Members.]] It was good for people, but it is not, because, of the 240 million, 150 million are for works, are to recover the monuments that are falling. It's a shame! We have the Tile Museum with the roof falling, we have the National Museum of Ancient Art in the state in which it is! It's a shame! And money isn't for people. Now, the PSD asked it to be for people and he can't understand why it's not. We will continue in this battle, making this alternative very clear, seeing very well where we will look... Go to 300 million euros for low cost social housing take 150 million for the monuments. We have a plan that is self-sufficient and solve the problem without needing it. Portugal, of all the countries of the Union, has the most housing per inhabitant. So it is really unacceptable, so we expect this resolution to ever be fulfilled. Please read the resolution of Europe's cultural recovery, because if we have the European Parliament, we have to do it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u85	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Rosário Gambôa of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u86	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, I am amazed by the PSD that it has made a 2-percent announcement for culture, which is going to be in Europe when it is not necessary, because there were projects here as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u87	There was nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u88	But let me tell you that two percent is absolutely empty. The idea of PSD projects for culture, with all respect, is zero! But, honourable Member, my request for clarification is in another sense. You say that the PRR, with the 243 million, is not intended for culture. So, Mrs. Member, is not the digitization and virtualization of 20 million images of public libraries culture? Oh, my God! The digitization and virtualization of the 19th, 5 million documents of national archives are not culture? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PSD Members Filipa Roseta and Paulo Neves.]] The digitization of 59 million collections in public museums is not culture? Oh, my God! Virtual visits to 65 museums aren't culture? Oh, my God! Excuse me! Open... And more: the digital transition we're talking about, as well as heritage recovery is not exclusively real estate. Madam Member, if you had read the document — by your statements, it seems to me that you did not,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u89	Li, li!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u90	... maybe he realized that we're talking about dynamizing the sector, finding, through digitization, new processes, new modes of organization,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... call partnerships, encompass people, dynamize territories, such as knowing how to do that is included in this PRR. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u91	In reply, Mrs Filipa Roseta has the floor. [[Pause.]] Mrs Filipa Roseta asked you a question. If you don't want to answer, say you don't answer, but the question was for you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u92	Mr President, I am very grateful and I want to say that it is indeed very important to look at numbers and values. I therefore ask all those who will read the report that Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has spoken, look at the numbers and values and see how much it is all about. We're talking about 300 million. It's good advice, look at the numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u93	For an intervention, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. State Secretaries : The theatre and cinema network is a decisive instrument for access to culture and the promotion of territorial cohesion. Unfortunately, the buildings were inaugurated, little was done. Some authorities have waged in investment and robust programs and new reference institutions have been created in the country, others have abandoned and the promise of cultural decentralization has died in empty public and programming rooms. But, even without a proposal for years, the network entered the sector's demands and the Left Block followed that requirement. It was also the only party to put forward proposals in this Parliament. In January 2019, the Block bill for the theatre and cinema network was approved in general, with votes in favour of the Left Block, the PCP, the ENP and the NAP, and the abstention of PS, PSD and CDS. This followed an inexplicably long specialty time that lasted four months and ended with the modified project at an essential point. This change occurred by means of PS, PSD and CDS. And what change was that? The Ministry of Culture is no longer obliged to co-finance theatres through multiannual programme contracts with appropriations entered in the State budget. This was an important measure, which would ensure solidarity and correct asymmetries without confusing support for the network with support for independent structures. But even with this scope drafting that was imposed in the specialty, the approval of this project is an undeniable milestone in the development of public culture policies, one of the two giant steps that were carried out during the period of "management" in culture. in this legislation, the extension of the public service channels available in TDT was also made, also by proposal of the Left Block, and that was particularly important in access to information by older and less-income populations. However, it happens that the creation of the network does not run out in the publication of the law, it needs regulation, which only now is presented by the government. In Parliament, the PS and the right had reduced the law to a mechanism for certification of structures for inclusion in the network, with partial financing of its programming, excluding matters relating to human resources or the management of spaces. This isn't a minor problem. And we ask: how many municipalities, especially small municipalities, where the network is most necessary and essential for the democratization of culture, have the capacity to support technical teams, production teams, artistic direction without any central solidarity support? How many municipalities have these characteristics and have this possibility? The problem that already existed was compounded by the portal, published on May 25, which regulates the accreditation of the structures that want to integrate the network and adds a serious problem, because this port would require theaters and cinemas to have continued activity for two years to access the network, thus preventing the reactivation of theatres or cinemas through the network support regime. It would be unacceptable anyway, but after the pandemic it is a disaster. This is the most serious problem, which calls into question the law itself. If the network does not allow to reactivate theaters and cinemas, support low-density councils in this process, what is it for, why does it already work without needing the network? Or is it for everything to stay the same? We recognize that among the first proposal of the portal that was published was made some way, but other issues remain that weaken the objective of the law. The door raises some requirements, as well as that that the structure has adequate human resources for its activity, but we do not realize why it excludes considerations about the work links. So the question we ask is: can it be all false green receipt or false outsourcing? Is this the measure we are going to implement in this project? The network of theatres and cinemas should also be an example of labour relations and an anchor to a job qualified throughout the country. To launch new proposals that do not change structural cultural problems is a waste of time for the country. The situation is serious and requires a determined action. If the government's inaction persists, the destruction of the cultural fabric will be irreparable. Thus, robust measures are needed to recover from the current crisis, caused by the pandemic, ensuring that support does not leave anyone out, and that they address the structural problems of territorial inequalities and labour abuse. It is a fundamental task of the State to guarantee the constitutional right to fruition and cultural creation. It is therefore up to the Government, through the Ministry of Culture, to ensure the possibility of access to culture to all people living in Portugal and to promote cultural diversity. To this end, it is essential to respond to the crisis of chronic subsistence and precariousness that historically affects the sector. This will necessarily imply the construction of a public service of culture, which is essential to democracy and citizenship, and this is why it is imperative to change the financing model of cultural production. This is certainly due to the strengthening of the budget for culture. in a true progressive democracy, culture must be an essential asset to preserve and stimulate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u95	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : It is painful to talk about cultural policy to a government that has been in power for more than five years and to a minister who has been in office since 2018 and has already spent more than half the time he had to make the difference. Although the legislature has not yet come to an end, we can make a balance sheet of socialist governance from 2015 to now. The first fallacy was the announcement, with the lightness of our Prime Minister, that culture was going to have a Ministry and a Minister and, in practice, neither one thing nor another. Since 2015, when the first Government Programme presented by the Socialist Party was covered, the attraction for the fantastic promise and propaganda declarations were already multiplied. And I quote the Prime Minister: more than one ministry, Costa defends "a government of culture" and "a mandate in which culture will be present in all dimensions of government activity". This attachment to propaganda has not lost breath over the years, both in the presentation of the State budgets — which the left voted meekly — and at other public times. In the 2015 Government Programme we find abundant examples of what was then promised and constantly postponed. It was the creation of the status of the artist, which appears as a proposal in 2021, but appears late, appears fragile, appears insufficient and strongly contested by its recipients and by the PSD. It was the simplification of the procedures of applications to support the arts, which, from model to model, were always accompanied by great challenge. This was announced a month ago, but it lacks the validation that only its application allows, and in the meantime it has passed five years. It was to ensure that interventions for the recovery and preservation of historical heritage were carried out in accordance with the hierarchy and priority, on the basis of effective monitoring of the conservation status of the historical heritage — not fulfilled! It was the promotion of an inventory of immaterial cultural heritage in Portugal and of the Portuguese immaterial heritage in the world—not fulfilled! We have reached the Government's 2019 Programme and are reaching half the mandate. It was the creation of the national photography museum and the installation of two nuclei in the national territory, but in 2020 the government created, in good socialist fashion, a working group. It was the campaign "A Citizen, a Euro" for cultural heritage—not fulfilled! It was the programming of music, theatre and arts in hospitals and prisons—not fulfilled! It was the creation of a child cultural biennial to promote inclusion by art—not fulfilled! It was the implementation of the satellite account of culture—not fulfilled! And the mother of all the fantasies: 2 % of the discretionary expenditure provided for in the State budget was for culture. Anyone believe? But there are more examples of measures and projects announced years ago. The Portuguese theater and cinema network was approved in 2019, but only now on 22 April came the regulation for decisions in 2022, only supporting 25 structures in the first phase. The installation of the National Museum of Music in the National Palace of Mafra came from 2018, but only last month was announced that there would be works to receive visitors, you know when, perhaps in 2023. As for the National Sound Archive, is there a place to install it? What's the opening date? For when is the transfer of the National Centre for Water and Water Archaeology? For when? What about the Saber Fazer Center? When? When? Anyway, we were here all afternoon. Ms. Minister, who arrived at the beginning of 2020, when the country entered the state of emergency, the intervention of the Ministry of Culture had two moments, both regrettable. in the first instance, in a totally insensitive way, it alluded to responsibilities, referring the cultural professionals to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and to the so-called « transversal measures», which well knew were insufficient and, in many cases, unapplicable to these recipients. But, worse, when crushed by the reality and the cry raised by the sector and by all the parties with parliamentary seats, caused some incoherent, non-comprehensive and late measures to emerge, as the reality has been confirmed and that they deny the announcement by the Ministry of Culture that they would be urgent, consistent and leave no one behind. It is such "university" denied by reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u97	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u98	I will finish, Mr. President. According to the study Barometer Generator Qmetrics 2021, and as regards culture, Portuguese are highly critical, and 72% disapprove of government activity in this area. Thus, at the end of six years of socialist governance, culture is not the central axis of development and the disappointment of the time that has passed - we get optimistic about the time that comes. Certainly, in culture too, this is not the government that Portugal needs. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u99	Mrs Sara Velez of the PS Parliamentary Group was appointed to request clarification. Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has no time to answer, but the honourable Member, if you wish, may make her request for clarification. [[Pause.]] Mrs Sara Velez waives her request for clarification. Thus, for an intervention, Mrs Rosário Gambôa, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u100	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister for Culture, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Culture is the foundation of democracy, which has often been repeated here, diversity, freedom of expression and participation, social cohesion, opening the horizons to coexistence and dialogue between cultures. And culture also has economic value. Therefore, discussing cultural policy in this Parliament, as it is happening today, is always a time to reward its value, respecting differences, and to discuss its future at present. Culture has a Ministry in this government, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, because cultural policy is a crucial part of the government agenda, designed according to a sectoral dimension, but also cross-sectional, in fruitful connection with other areas in which culture also takes place. This is a fundamental anchorage point when political guidelines are reflected or evaluated, which we will head to the end of this appeal to the Government. But let's look at some of the landmarks in this cultural policy that we can show today. The pandemic introduced the emergency into cultural policy. And the emergency is imperative, imposing new measures or strengthening the lines of action in place, capable of protecting a fragile sector. The Government acted, and acted immediately in March 2020, with measures specifically aimed at cultural entities and professionals, supplemented over time with other measures, depending on the management of the crisis. In addition to various sectoral measures, cross-sectional support was also created, intentionally designed to be adaptable to this sector, such as simplified layoff, APOIR.PT and, essentially, extraordinary support for the progressive resumption of activity. Culture—and this is something important and we must bear in mind very well—is the only sector of activity that had a double dimension of support, sectoral and cross-cutting, accumulating. These supports were designed in a logic that sought to be as comprehensive as possible, covering the various professional categories, informal groups, artistic entities and cultural companies. In January of this year, in the face of new restrictive measures, the Government has advanced with new support, including the Guarantee Culture Programme, which is largely lost, for cultural fabric for the development of artistic projects, creation and programming in all areas. The resilience of the sector and the economic recovery were assumed, therefore, by the government area of culture as political priorities, with various support in values that exceeded, overall, the EUR 240 million. Culture was supported at this stage, and well. The emergency requires action and this requires those who govern a global understanding of the country, balance and equity. But political action was not only of emergency and central axes, already evidenced today, because it was also created the National Network of Theatres and Cineteatros and the revision of the model of support for the arts, measures enhanced by the possibilities opened by the PRR in the rehabilitation of cultural, material and immaterial heritage, in the modernization and training of the technological infrastructure of the network of cultural equipment and in the digitization of contents — acquisitions, exhibitions, virtualization of espolios —, enabling the implementation, more assertive and deep, of measures that have been planned. A strong investment in digital transition in the field of arts and cultural heritage will have an immediate impact on the development of new production processes and new ways of organizing and circulating content, favoring the link between cultural institutions, networks of people and knowledge. Finally, the status of cultural professionals is certainly the cornerstone of a cultural policy that pays attention to people, workers' rights, social justice, developed as an inter-ministerial team and with the listening of the representatives of the institutions during a long process of social consultation. The status includes, in an autonomous and comprehensive legal regime, both the regulation of the multiple labour situations peculiar to the sector, and a model of social protection that supports them in the different eventualities. This is a measure that has long been greatly desired, but has never been accomplished. The draft decree-law submitted is not finished, contrary to what was stated here at the beginning of the debate. It will benefit from the contributions of the public consultation and a new agenda of analysis with the representative entities of the sector, as already announced. These entities, in turn, will integrate the Committee to monitor the implementation of the project. The space for dialogue and improvement therefore remains open. And it is in openness and respect for pluralism that we believe that matters crucial to democracy, such as the RTP and the public service objectives it provides, should be discussed. The responsibilities assigned to RTP require organizational and financial stability, require the responsible commitment of everyone in the search for solutions and require convergence, so that the company can respond to old problems and new challenges in a climate of social well-being. It is in the construction work of these and other commitments that we understand parliamentary democracy and that we reaffirm our willingness and willingness to remain in dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u101	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u102	When you hear about culture, pull it out of the gun!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u103	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: If there is any element that is currently in Portugal in total deregulation is culture. What we have today in Portugal is a culture that not only shames our European partners as it can shame the culture itself within land. What happens at RTP, as well as what happens in Portugal with all cultural operators, is truly shameful. As a manifestation, they have pointed out the finger to a Minister of Culture who has already little role to play in this government and who remains firm in its place despite all criticisms, even of those who have still been three months or, better, were its supporters three years ago. What happens to Tauromachy in Portugal is unbelievable. And it continues to be unbelievable as a minister uses his personal expression and his personal hatreds to continue to destroy a sector, kill a segment and alienate the rural world in Portugal. That is what really happened! What has also happened is that the government that had promised to support culture continues with absurd restrictions, not only to showrooms or access to culture, but also to support the sector itself. Let's do the math. What support is given in Portugal to the culture and sectors most affected by the pandemic? For what is paid throughout Europe, 20 % support is given. A Minister of Culture who comes here to say that we can put culture on the map should be ashamed and say that culture in Portugal is not worth anything as long as this socialist government is sending. This is 20 % of what Europe pays for support! How can we come to Parliament to say one thing and do another when it comes to supporting those who really need it? It does not fail to be gracious that those who for years wanted to have culture as a flag, the left and the extreme left, supported by the Socialist Party, have not made a decent demand,... [[Protests from BE Beatriz Gomes Dias.]] ... and successfully, to the Socialist State's budget in the field of cultural support. The Portuguese Communist Party, which made so many demands to approve this last State budget, did not make a single requirement in which it said "or this or nothing, but let's go." It has been the same as ever again, and this is seen in its draft resolutions concerning the schools of Mira, Bragança and Algarve. They are projects for English to see! And now that there are no English here, or very few, are really just projects for communists to see! In fact, they tell the Socialist Party that they want to do, but they put the rape in the bag when the State Budget comes, not doing anything at all. I do not admire them when they come out with studies that say 80 % of the workers in the culture do not vote. It is natural that, having been misled for decades, with parties promising culture and giving up government, which promised support and embarrassed the sector, this sector is truly disappointed. Mr President, I shall finish — I know that my time is running out — not without saying that this socialist government does not just want to condition culture, or put its hands on culture, or put its hands on freedom and creativity, or put its hands on the public television station and the public broadcasting station. That is what we should be concerned about, as Democrats, and that is what a Minister of Culture really should be concerned about.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u104	Mr. Deputies, you have to put your hand on your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u105	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u106	Mrs Sara Velez of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u107	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I wanted to begin by welcoming the opportunity given to us today by the Left Block so that we can discuss cultural policy in Portugal. And, yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can only do this because, in fact, there is in this government a cultural policy,... [[PSD and CH laughter.]] ... unlike others, there is in this government a cultural policy to be implemented and this enables its discussion, which is exactly what we are doing here today. As has already been said by the Minister, and here arrived, the reformist vision, with the aim of strengthening and giving structure to the culture sector, has been built since 2015 and every year, year after year, the Budget has been strengthened, as well as solutions have been found for the different chronic problems that we all recognize, exist in the sector for years. This is what happened in the area of support for arts, cinema and audiovisual, book and library politics, in the area of museums, heritage, social communication, in the area of the internationalization of Portuguese culture itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The significant budgetary reinforcements, repeated every year, which have occurred in the different areas of the culture area, are having, and will undoubtedly have, in the future, very significant impacts throughout the sector. The application of these measures, associated with the reform that the status of professionals of culture allows are decisive parts in the structuring and strengthening of the creative and cultural sector in Portugal. Like other areas, culture was also affected by the pandemic. I'd say it was really one of the most hits, and that's recognized by everyone. We could have the idea that nothing has happened in our country, in 2020, that there was no a health crisis on the way, that this was not the first Ministry, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture, to say to you, that it was not the only Ministry to implement support programmes financed directly by the budget of culture, that it was not the Ministry that reviewed the programmes of arts support support programmes, which was not the Ministry that had taken its own measures in the Programme for Economic and Social Stabilization, which was not the first Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture, to reply that it was not the only Ministry to implement support programmes financed directly by the budget of culture, which was not the Ministry of Culture and Culture, which was the Ministry that launched the Guaranteer Garantir Culture, the ProMuuseus (ProMuuse of Financial Support Programme to the Portuguese Music Programme of Portuguese Network of the Portuguese Network of the Portuguese Network of the Museum of the Museum of the Portuguese Music in the National Radios National Radios ( Portuguese Music Programme ) ), which, which, the extraordinary role, which was, the extraordinary role, the excellent, which has increased by culture and culture and culture and culture, which has spent, which has spent, and has been restored by culture, and has been restored, and has how how how how how how we have been used for what we used for what we have made and how we have made for what we have been used for what we used for what we have made for what we have used for for for for for what we can to spend and how we have what we used for what we can to spend and how we have to spend and how we have what we can to spend and how we have used for for for for for for what we have what we have what we have is is for for for for for for for for what we have what we have what we have what we have what we have for for for what we have is is is for for for what we are for for for what we are for for what we are for for for what we have is is is is is is is is is is is to show how we have is for what we are for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for what we are for for what we are for for what we are for for what we are for for what we are for for what we have is [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] We know that the starting point was not the best, but the truth, as much as it costs some to assume, is that I repeat, it has never been invested in both culture in Portugal and in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u108	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u109	That is why, today, we have the opportunity to discuss a true cultural policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u110	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then move on to the closing stage of this debate. For this purpose, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u111	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Secretary of State and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Culture is a fundamental right, fundamental to anyone, fundamental to any society. The right to participate freely in the cultural life of the community, access to fruition and cultural creation are enshrined in Article 27. the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and article 73. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. A pandemic was needed to make it evident the drama of a cultural policy that forgets that culture is also a professional activity on which workers, workers and families depend to survive. Artists, authors, an infinity of technicians, guides, assistants of the room, as workers, need employment contracts. With the paralysis caused by the pandemic, thousands of workers turned to their arms with great difficulty in keeping their most basic needs satisfied. Circumcision workers, artisans, visual artists, actors, musicians, educators or technicians of various specialties turned out without work and without social protection. But in this harsh period, solidarity was felt between the workers of culture and also the demand force of the workers and the workers of culture. They demand a number of voices, but in unison: those who work in culture must have the right to a contributing career, unemployment allowance and a contract of employment. The Ministry of Culture, for its part, revealed the deep ignorance of the sector in the design of support, with rules impossible to comply and that leave out thousands of workers and workers. The government continues to ignore the structural shortcomings of cultural policy that normalized precariousness, but it can still make a difference. The status of the cultural worker was approved at the Council of Ministers on 22 April, and is in public consultation until 17 June 2021. This is an old sector claim, defended as an instrument to end precariousness and ensure social protection, but the Government's proposal does not respond because it accepts the false argument of "self-employment" in culture. It is necessary to combat the problem at the root and to determine the contract of work as a standard—as required by labour laws—to strengthen supervision, to assume the State's commitment to the rules of work and to combat the bad practices of large institutions with public funding. The proposed statute also does not respond to social protection. It provides more support for a part of workers and workers, but without guarantee of effectiveness and requiring an increase in the contribution burden, too high, in the face of the new subsidy to be taken. It does not end with deprotection: the activity suspension allowance states that a worker will have to be three months without income in order to be able to access. Madam Minister, we note that today nothing has told us about how to combat labour abuse. Nothing about the Act's decision on Serralves and the House of Music and the government's resistance to comply with the law of work. I did not even say that I believe that the status proposed specifically improves the life of the workers of culture. We want to believe that perhaps it still corrects and understands that in culture, as in all sectors, the rule has to be the contract of work and social protection an effective support. It also did not respond on the tables of the Directorate-General for Heritage and the museums, palaces and monuments, nor on the sector's own organic and the proposals it has on the table. Without workers and without autonomy none of these equipment works and are access to culture, scientific production and the preservation of the heritage they are concerned. As for the public radio and television service, today's response from the Secretary of State was exactly what we feared. Since the contract that ended two years ago was not completed, then the new contract, already two years late, is not to be fulfilled either. RTP only has plans if you have money, says the government, but the government only guarantees the plan, does not guarantee the money. And what is expected for the RTP is the usual: technological obsolescence, supplier dependence, precariousness, wage stagnation, heritage fraud, improvisation. Madam Minister, you insisted in this debate that the Block did not put culture at the heart of budgetary negotiations. It'd better be a distraction, but it's not. The Minister seems not to understand that culture is made up of workers and workers, that we discuss work and social protection when we talk about culture and when we talk about work and social protection. For our part, we insist : from work to the organic of museums, the distribution of revenue from streaming platforms to the Network of Theatres and Cinetheatretros, from the situation of archives and libraries to support independent structures, the debate of cultural policy is vast and will not be determined by the agenda of announcements of the Minister of Culture, but by the democratic requirement of compliance with the constitutional imperative of access to culture. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u112	To close the debate, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Culture, Graça Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking you for this debate. It is always good to discuss cultural policy and it is certainly a contribution that we will make to the next cycle that is approaching and to prepare the year of 2022. during this debate, I said, as when we were here about a month ago, that the government has a clear cultural policy, which is defined in the Government's programme and we have come to implement the Government's programme step by step, and always with the very clear notion that when the world, and Portugal, was hit by a pandemic, it could not fail to respond at that time. The worst, or almost so bad, thing we could have done was to give up working for the future. That's it, we've never done it! We have always worked to answer the moment and the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was easy term - focused only at the moment, it was very easy, but we couldn't have done it. And, therefore, we have approved a set of structuring diplomas for the future, certainly with room for improvement and dialogue will certainly enrich all the proposals we have made. Of course! But we approved, we did, they're in progress. Still this month, it opens the accreditation process of the Network of Theatres and Cinetheatres and, in September, will open the program of financial support to theatres and theaters for this first period. There are three very important pillars of any cultural policy. First: more investment. This increase in investment is very important, but it does not work without the other two pillars. Here we go. With regard to the investment between 2018 and 2021, the budget of the culture, without relying on the social communication, increased EUR 100 million. So far, the culture budget has increased by 46 %, which dramatically contrasts with the 35 % cut that the PSD has made... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... at a difficult time for the country, where he left the culture behind, cutting 35 % in the investment and even in one year, for the first time in many years, there were competitions to support cinema in Portugal. This, yes, Mr. Members, it is the mark of the PSD in culture: the cut of 35% and the abandonment of the sector, at a very difficult time, where the country also experienced a difficult situation. This is the mark of difference! In the face of the crisis, the Government of the Socialist Party reacts and, in just 12 months, reinforces its support for a very successful sector. For 12 months, a very hit sector was supported with EUR 250 million. This is the difference between PS and PSD, and so it will always be. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is more, and very important, Mr. Members: more investment means more money in the State budget, it means providing financial support to the sector at a difficult time and means allocating EUR 243 million for the next five years to support the cultural sector in all its different dimensions with the PRR. And you know what this means? This represents very important things: work, income and opportunities for thousands of people throughout the country, now and in the future. That's what it means! Investment means income, work and job opportunities for many people in the country. And this is what you guys are talking about. Members seem to forget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is a second very important pillar of a cultural policy: structural diplomas, structural instruments, what structures a sector for the future, what allows stability, predictability, to be able to work in a position to know what will happen. This means that we have never stopped working: the instruments for the future, such as the Portuguese Theatres and Cinematrium Network, the revision of the model of support for the arts, the Portuguese Network of Contemporary Art and, yes, Mrs. Members, much of what has been created in the past, such as the National Plan of Arts, which is having a huge impact on schools, and the National Archive of Sound, which you promised year after year and that you have never fulfilled, yes, it is working, it is working with universities, with the cameras, and it will continue to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yeah, that's the difference. We need more investment, but we need him because we know what we want, we know what the way is...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u115	... and that is what we have done: to approve structural instruments that will allow the next five years to be done with stability, predictability and different working conditions. Professional status is also a structural instrument for the future. As I have said several times, and I will continue to say this, at no time has the government closed itself, at no time has the government spoken to the mirror and at no time this proposal which is now under public discussion has been made in a cabinet. It wasn't. It was made with many people, with many entities and in view of everyone. It has been made with many contributions and will continue to be. Since the day it was put into public discussion, several meetings have already been held with the entities that are part of the working group. Since the day it was put into public discussion, we have received many contributions and have already made a dialogue with many people and with many entities, and we will continue to do so until June 17. We really hope, very sincerely, that this debate on cultural policy and the status of professionals in the sector means that, from time to time in Portugal, a statute that creates the conditions for never more people with long careers do not have contributing careers or social protection. We will not want to leave this for future generations. That is why we all count on all the Members and the Members. Members because this is the time to say 'present' to professionals in the culture sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u116	After this debate, the time has come for us to say goodbye and for us to thank the members of the Government who have been here. We are going to go to the last item on the agenda, which is, as you know, the vote on the Rules of Procedure. We have a very substantial quorum with 220 ladies and gentlemen. Members registered, therefore, we shall begin the votes. First, we have the Voting Project No. 589 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PS ) — Regret for the death of Antonio Coimbra Martins. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last May 19, at the age of 94 in Paris, António Coimbra Martins, a distinguished writer, diplomat, political and intellectual and one of the founders of the Socialist Party. Born in Lisbon, in January 1927, his academic, professional and political life was marked by diversity. Trained in Romanic Philology by the University of Lisbon, he was a teacher of secondary education and reader of Portuguese at the Universities of Montpellier, Aix-Marselha and Paris, and later joined the Faculty of Letters of Lisbon, where he ruled the chair of French Literature. In 1965, in Paris, he was responsible for the creation, through the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, of the Portuguese Cultural Center. He divided his life between Portugal and France, having both countries shared his talent and recognized his merit. In 1997 he was thanked for the degree of Great Cross of the Order of Infante D. Henrique and the French Government gave him the degree of Knight of the Order of Arts and Letters. The accession to the Portuguese Socialist Action, in 1964, and the founding of the Socialist Party are two moments beyond their political life. Shortly after 25 April, he would be appointed to be responsible for the work of the Portuguese delegation responsible for preparing for the reintegration of Portugal into UNESCO ( United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ). In 1974, Portugal was appointed as ambassador in Paris, and its role in diplomacy was particularly emphasized in the decisive negotiations involving the Portuguese integration process in Europe, the opening of diplomatic relations with China and the beginning of an innovative policy on Portuguese emigration in France, where it would be elected by the circle of Emigration ( Europe ) by the Socialist Party, in 1983. He held the portfolio of the Ministry of Culture in the IX Constitutional Government, in Portugal, and was a member of the circle of Vila Real, in 1985. He was also a Member of the European Parliament, from 1986 to 1994, joining the Socialist Group in the European Parliament. António Coimbra Martins will remain, forever, in the history of the Socialist Party, not only as its founder, not only as a symbol of the tireless struggle for freedom, but also as an intellectual prestigious who devoted his life also to the projection of Portuguese culture. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Antonio Coimbra Martins, conveying to his family and friends the deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u118	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. The President of the Assembly of the Republic shall associate himself with this vote. We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No 590 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the PCP and signed by a PS Member ) — Despite the death of Colonel Diniz de Almeida. The President of the Assembly of the Republic is also associated with this vote. In fact, the son and daughter of Colonel Diniz de Almeida are present in the galleries. I ask Secretary Helga Correia to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote is of the following content: « At the age of 76, Colonel of Artillery Eduardo Diniz Santos Almeida died, one of the most prominent military in April. Born in Lisbon, on 7 July 1944, Diniz de Almeida has actively participated in the Armed Forces Movement ( MFA ) since its conspirative phase, particularly in the meeting of officials of Évora. On 25 April 1974, he led a military column out of Figueira da Foz to Lisbon, and part of that column was charged with releasing the Forte de Peniche. During the coup attempt of 11 March 1975, it played a decisive role in responding to the bombing and siege of its unit in Lisbon ( RAL1). Diniz de Almeida was part of several bodies of the Armed Forces Movement, always faithful to the objective of defending the April Revolution, its values and design, that he left valuable testimony in works such as Origins and Evolution of the Captains Movement and the Trilogy Ascension, apogee and fall of the MFA. Colonel de artillery reformed, maintained a firm intervention in defense of the values of April, was elected by the CDU in the Town Hall of Cascais and performed professional activity as a psychologist, among other social intervention activities. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Eduardo Diniz Santos Almeida and sends condolences to his relatives and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u120	Thank you very much, Secretary Helga Correia. We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute's silence on these two regrets. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We will continue with the votes, generally voting on Bill No. 756 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Update of the characterization and diagnosis of the state of protected areas and project approval regime. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions against the CH, the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and 6 PS (Ana Passos, Francisco Pereira Oliveira, Jamila Madeira, Joaquina Matos, Luís Graça and Telma Guerreiro).]] We will vote for draft resolution No 243 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government that the conditions of agricultural workers in the Perimeter de Rega do Mira be met with the fundamental principles patented in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 695 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Prevent the expansion of greenhouses and intensive agricultural crops in general in the Perimeter of the Mira Kingdom — Natural Park of the Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of 6 PS Deputies (Ana Passos, Francisco Pereira Oliveira, Jamila Madeira, Joaquina Matos, Luís Graça and Telma Guerreiro).]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 820 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the recovery of the biodiversity of the Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina Natural Park and the ecological transition of agriculture of the Perimeter de Rega do Mira. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PAN, the PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and PCP abstentions.]] We are now going to vote on a request by the NAP, asking the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea to be discharged without a 30-day vote of Bill No 835 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Sets out the measures to be taken as a matter of urgency to update and comply with the Plan of Management of the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina ( POPNSACV), providing for the immediate and provisional suspension of new intensive or superintensive agricultural facilities in the Natural Park. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This bill then drops to 7. the Commission. The following is a set of draft resolutions on support measures for dance schools, the Left Block, the CFP, the NAP and the Greens. I wonder if we can vote for them together. [[Pause.]] The Liberal Member says that, therefore, in order not to waste more time on this, it is better to vote one at a time. We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 865 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Adaptation of the rules of confinement to the specificities of dance schools. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstentions.]] The vote on draft resolution No 871 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Dance support measures. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 910 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure the adoption of support measures for dance schools. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We now have the general vote on draft resolution No 925 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Requalification of the National Conservatory and valorization and defense of artistic education at the School of Music and at the School of Dance. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] This draft Green resolution goes down to 8.The Commission. We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 926 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Support for dance schools due to mandatory closure for the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstentions.]] We also vote in general on the Resolution Project No 933 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends the urgent conclusion of the works to re-qualify the building of the National Conservatory. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] The diploma is lower than 8.The Commission. We are now going to vote on a request by BE, on a bass basis to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a 60-day vote of Bill No. 649 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recognizes and regulates the professional status of socio-cultural animation. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We now have the vote on draft resolution No 1308 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the recognition and regulation of the profession of sociocultural animator. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We vote for another request, submitted by the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, who is down to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a 30-day vote of the Bill No. 630 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthen the protection of children and young people who live in the context of domestic violence or who witness it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Thus, this bill by Mrs Deputy goes down to 1. the Commission. We now have the general vote on Bill No. 713 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the General Rules of the Child Protection Process strengthening the right of children to effective participation in decisions concerning them. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP and PEV.]] We proceed to the vote on a new request by the NAP, which is down to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a 30-day vote of Bill No. 779 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recognition of the victim status to children who witness or live in the context of domestic violence, amending Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 establishing the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of their victims, and the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Therefore this project goes down to 1. the Commission. We also have the vote of two other requests, submitted respectively by the CDS-PP, to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting for the 30-day deadline of Bill No 849 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecration of the victim status for children who witness the practice of domestic violence or who live in the context of domestic violence, and by the IL, on discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting, within 30 days, of the Bill No 853 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Recognizes the victim status of minors living in the context of domestic violence or testimony. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] These CDS-PP and IL projects are down to 1. the Commission within 30 days. We now vote in general on Bill No. 358 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Support for victims of violence at a time of pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstentions.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 701 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Consecrates crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of a person unable to resist as public crimes. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and BE abstention.]] We also vote, in general, the Bill No. 771 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Consecrates the public nature of the crimes of rape, sexual coercion, sexual fraud, sexual abuse of persons unable to resist and artificial procreation and extends the limitation of crimes against the sexual freedom and self-determination of minors and the crime of female genital mutilation by amending the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and BE abstention.]] The general vote of Bill No 772 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — An amendment to the Criminal Code is made, assigning the nature of public crime to crimes of sexual coercion, rape and sexual abuse of a person unable to resist, ensuring compliance with the Convention of the Council of Europe for the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence ( Istanbul Convention ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and BE abstention.]] We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on Decree-Law No 102 - D / 2020 of 10 December approving the general waste management regime, the legal regime for landfilling waste and amending the system for the management of specific waste flows, transposing Directives ( EU ) 2018 / 849, 2018 / 850, 2018 / 851 and 2018 / 852 [ Parliamentary assessments No 36 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) and 38 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) ]. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, ENP and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u121	I'm asking for your word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u122	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u123	It is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u124	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u125	Mr President, it is to be regretted that, although this vote has entered the script in time, the final text underlying it has entered half an hour before we started the meeting. They are about 20 pages and ask for care for their committees, because this is no way to respect a deliberation that we should take into account. I would therefore like it not to repeat itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u126	Mr President, your statement is recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u127	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u128	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u129	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the Greens will present a written vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u130	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u131	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u132	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u133	Mr President, it is to request the floor for an oral vote, which will be made by Mr Peralta, on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u134	An oral vote now?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u135	Now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u136	Then it will take place immediately. Mr Bruno Coimbra also asks for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u137	Mr President, it is for the same purpose to announce that I will make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u138	All right, Mr. Deputies. The Bureau also takes note of a request for an oral vote by the PS and I assume that other parliamentary groups also wish to take the floor for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u139	Yes, Mr. President. Mrs Paula Santos will also make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u140	Therefore, we have several entries for oral explanations of vote on this matter and at this moment. The table is grateful. I therefore ask the services to present the time frame for oral explanations of vote. You have the floor by the Left Block Parliamentary Group Mr Nelson Peralta.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has presented the country with a very bad general waste law and this parliamentary assessment has allowed the Left Block to introduce several improvements to that law. Let's look at a few examples. With the Government's proposal, the waste bill would be without access to the automated social tariff and the Left Block changed this situation. We have agreed that those who live inside should not pay a higher rate just because of their address. We also agreed that, in the case of food oils and textiles, the responsibility for paying the waste system should be the producer company and not just the citizens. And, as far as clothing is concerned, we have defined a programme to promote its sustainability. Unfortunately, many of the absolutely urgent and necessary Left Block proposals have been rejected in the process of discussion in the field of expertise. We proposed that the TGR (residue management rate) should not have an impact on the tariff for citizens, that it should be a measure of responsibility for waste management companies. This proposal was rejected, with the votes against the PS, the PSD, the CDS and the NAP, which unfortunately continue to believe that environmental policy is a tax policy. We proposed that the fee charged by the authorities should not exceed the costs of the service, but this proposal was also rejected this time by the PS, the PS, and the CDS. Our proposal was also rejected so that municipalities would receive 50% of the TGR's funds, with the votes against the PS and with the decisive abstention from the CFP. Government law attributed to large companies such as Coca-Cola and Pingo Doce, self-regulation on the goals to be applied to their reusable packages and the Left Block tried to change this so that it would be the state to set these targets. Well, the PS and CDS voted against and the PCP abstained. The law was better, but there is a long way to go and the Left Block here will be to travel this way in the waste sector, ensuring social tariffs, justice in the sector and a more sustainable environment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u142	You have the floor for two minutes for an oral vote, Mr Bruno Coimbra, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, Decree-Law No 102 - D / 2020 is a fundamental legislative instrument, both for environmental policy and for waste policy, of course, and would be an instrument that would deserve all attention. With almost 300 pages and transposing several European directives—with a Unilex for the management of specific flows, with a new General Waste Management Scheme—this diploma deserved another type of attention. However, he was in a hurry, without listening to anyone. It was published without a public consultation report, which lasted only 15 days, was contested by everyone, was diminished in what was the role to be played in our legislation and therefore a parliamentary assessment was required that the PSD Parliamentary Group immediately demanded. This was a long, demanding, hardworking Parliamentary assessment, which approved almost 50 amendments to this diploma. And the PSD has fulfilled its role well. We clarified the articulation, increased the environmental requirement, responsible the right actors, pointed to the achievement of goals, improved planning processes and saved not only transparency in the TGR as the return to the municipalities and municipalities when the government and the Environmental Fund do not fulfil their role there. And we tried to include more in this law, but this was not possible due to the lack of ambition of the Socialist Party and some lack of vision of other parliamentary groups. This is a parliamentary assessment that honors the Assembly of the Republic, which is important and which actually improves this decree. However, we must continue this work, assessing the advances and inconsistencies that remain, even after this process. Even because we need to promote the improvements that are required in this field and we already know that with this government we cannot count. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u144	For a statement of vote, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when the CFP requested the parliamentary assessment of this diploma, it did so because it considered the process precipitated and little participated, without properly involving the interveners of the sector, especially if we take into account the extension of the diploma, its complexity, density and its incidences. The CFP has also done so because the same means an increase in the cost of living of the population, based on an intervention strategy, in this area, on an increase in rates logic, which end up paying the most fragile — the citizens — something unacceptable at the moment we go through, and also because we think that there is a lack of a real environmental vision with an ambition to effectively reduce waste. That is why we proposed that the diploma cease to apply. Only a serious, extended discussion process would enable us to correct the mistakes we have identified, which was not possible to develop within the framework of the parliamentary assessment that took place in the Assembly of the Republic. Despite the introduction of slight improvements to the original diploma, the responsibility of the Government, they do not face the conception that permeates the whole diploma, since they do not allow to counter the fundamental issues related to an obsession of making environmental policy to tax those who can and those who have less responsibility in the way of production and the quantity of waste produced. The central issue is not to know how the waste management rate is distributed, the central question is that this rate should not exist and should not be reflected in the population turnover. We must also point out that it is very difficult to raise environmental criteria for urban waste and other waste when this sector has been delivered to profit. As we have insisted and will continue to insist, such an important sector cannot be in the hands of the business, under the penalty of sacrificing the service provided to populations, parameters and best practices from an ecological point of view. It does not count on the PCP to transfer the costs to workers, to small businesses, to families. When the bill comes to each house, with increasing values, there may well be the mark of PS, PSD, CDS, PAN, Left Block, but not that of PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u146	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish, because you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u147	I shall finish, Mr President. It is precisely because the amendments made did not solve the fundamental problem that the CFP abstained in the vote. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u148	For a statement of vote, Mr João Miguel Nicolau of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if I may, « the mountain has bet a mouse», because PSD and the Left Block have made us believe, with the parliamentary assessments that they requested that this House should appreciate Decree-Law No 102 - D / 2020 of 10 December, that the government had started this house on the roof and forgotten all foundations. along a vast process, at work group headquarters, we had the opportunity to dismantle this theory, because what we heard here from the PSD and the Left Block was not in any way aligned with what we saw during the work we did on this important diploma. This is a decree which translates an important work of this government, which imposes more environmental ambition in the waste sector, more transparency, more organization, more simplification in the vast legislation in force in the area of waste. Still, in the context of this parliamentary assessment, the Socialist Party heard the main actors of the sector and society. We have tabled amendments, within this working group, we have heard, discussed and approved several measures proposed by the other parliamentary forces. With others we did not agree, which we well expressed throughout these works. We have also introduced important measures, yes, with the support of the Socialist Party, of course, as regards territorial cohesion, the strengthening of the social tariff of waste and, on the other hand, in greater ambition for reducing waste and promoting reuse. In the end, what we have is a parliamentary assessment—which resulted in a final text of 20 pages, with a lot of blank space—of a decree-law which has 300 pages and many measures for the country, defining a whole general waste management regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u150	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u151	I will finish, Mr. President. So, ladies and gentlemen, what is true, and with much pity of yours,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u152	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u153	... is that, in fact, it is the Socialist Party that continues to mark the change and impose ambition in the area of waste. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u154	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further oral explanations of vote, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to report to the Members who were present by video conference at today's plenary meeting.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members were present, by videoconference, in this plenary, Mr Paulo Porto of the PS, elected by the circle outside Europe and, in prophylactic isolation, Mr Pedro Sousa of the PS. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-02.u156	Before the end of the sitting, it is still necessary to announce the agenda for the plenary session next Tuesday, 8 June, at 3 p.m. from the agenda, in the first point, there is a current debate required by the CFP, under Article 74. the Rules of Procedure, on the preparation of the new school year. The second point follows the discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 92 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Civil Procedure Code, the regulatory rules of the horizontal property regime, the procedure for fulfilling the emerging monetary obligations of contracts of value not exceeding the height of the court of 1. the Court and the Code of the Building Registry. In the third point, we will proceed to the discussion of the Bill No 93 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Other procedures related to the issue, delivery and use of the citizen's card, together with Bill No 854 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Concretizes the right to the citizenship card for persons in a situation without shelter by amending Law No 7 / 2007 of 5 February 2007 and Decree-Law No 135 / 99 of 22 April 2007. The fourth point is the discussion of motions for resolutions Nos 21 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Hellenic Republic on Defence Cooperation signed in Lisbon on 12 October 2020, 22 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the European Organisation for Public Law for the Establishment of a Regional Office in Portugal, signed in Athens on 16 October 2020, 23 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries signed in Lisbon on 18 December 2020 revising the Agreement on the Establishment of Community Headquarters in Portugal, signed in Lisbon on 3 July 1998, and 24 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Singapore, on the other hand, in Brussels on 19 October 2018. We have reached the end of this plenary session. Thank you all very much, good work, good holidays and a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 13 minutes.]]
