ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the Authority, we will start this plenary meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] of the first item on the agenda today, there is a debate on « Competitiveness : an urgent challenge for Portugal », required by the PSD, under Article 62 ( 2 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. To open the debate, Mr Afonso Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Social Democratic Party has the responsibility to bring today the debate one of the most urgent challenges for our collective future, competitiveness as an absolutely decisive factor for economic growth. It is not possible to win the fight for growth when our economy gradually loses competitive capacity in the international framework and, in particular, with the countries to which we can compare. It is incomprehensible that the improvement of our competitiveness as a country operating in a globalised and open world is not at the heart of this government's priorities. For the beginning of the conversation, there is one fact that is absolutely inconsequential: in the last 20 years the Portuguese economy has stagnated. The Portuguese economy has actually reached an average of about 0, 5 % per year between 2000 and 2019. It is 20 years of anemic growth, mediocre and less than the average value of the countries of the European Union. They're facts: they're 20 years lost. Repeat : are 20 years lost! Let us see: in 2000 we occupied the tenth position in the European ranking of GDP (gross domestic product) per capita; today we occupy the tenth position. in the last 20 years, we have been overcome by Slovenia, in 2003, by the Czech Republic, in 2007, by Malta, in 2009, by Estonia and Lithuania, in 2017. I repeat : we have been overcome by Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Malta and Lithuania. Twenty years ago, the per capita Portuguese GDP was 85% of the European average; today, it is 79%, that is, we fell 6 percentage points! Six points! These 20 years correspond to the years of government of the Socialist Party, with the exception of the periods of the troika, which the socialists called.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u3	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u4	But let us not wait for the Socialist Party to recognize this reality, because the Socialist Party always prefers its own narrative, which is a very bad narrative. in this debate, what we really want is an open discussion about the reasons and solutions for a stagnant country. According to the European forecasts, followed by the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), in 2022, Portuguese GDP will be 1 % above the pre-crisis level, the European Union as a whole will be 2, 2 % above and the other cohesion countries will be 4, 1 % above 2019. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this crisis has shown the structural weaknesses of the Portuguese economy which have systematically pushed us to the place of the poorest countries in Europe. in this crisis, we fall more than others, protect less than others the economy and employment and we will recover more slowly than others.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u5	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u6	There are no miracles or curses; there is reality and reality does not happen by chance. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The main bottlenecks of the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy have long been identified. These are well-known to all: high costs of context; a system of justice with high costs of litigation and high maturity in the processes; a complex tax system, with a very high tax burden on businesses and families; lack of qualified human capital; legislative instability, in particular the result of constant changes to the Labour Code which, unlike the announced, do not promote greater protection of the worker, thus promoting insecurity and uncertainty; small enterprises and scale; very high energy costs, which do not stop growing, as we are feeling every day, for example in electricity, fuels and gas; high public debt and high external debt; low level of private investment; very low level of public investment. There is also an unmistakable reality: the divergence with Europe which ultimately reflects the lack of productivity in our economy. In 2000 the average worker's hourly productivity in Portugal was 57 % of the European average; in 2015 it was 56 %; four years later, it was 55 %. So we continue to walk back and here too there is no mystery! The productivity deficit is also the result of a heavy capital deficit, because we have been among the least invested countries in recent decades. Indeed, as a whole in 2019, the Portuguese economy has invested less than 18 % than it invests in 2000, an unusual situation because we are only accompanied by Greece within the European framework. The situation is dramatic when we look at public investment. Over the last five years, completed in 2020, Portugal has distinguished itself from the 27 European states as the least invested. This has been the case every year since 2016 and we have arrived today and we have heard Mr. Minister of Finance say, in the Assembly of the Republic, without laughing, that the scarce public investment of 2020 is explained by the lack of public tenders left by the government of 2015. Finally, the Government has been unable to make public investment in the last five years and here are also the most justified doubts about the capacity of the current government to absorb, with efficiency and quality, the funds of the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ), which also fails because of the wrong options that the government does when it opts to support the economy and companies insufficiently. In addition to the very strong capital deficit in our economy, we have very ineffective justice and a highly punitive tax system. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this regard, I can tell you that the non-governmental organization Tax Foundation annually publishes an international tax competitiveness index that allows the OECD countries to hierarchize, from the first to the third place, in order of attractiveness. Between 36 countries, we are in the thirty-third place by 2020. Behind us we only have Italy, Poland and Chile. In Europe only two countries have a less competitive tax system. The question that can be asked is: how did we get here? We have one of the most labour and employment penalizing tax systems. With 53 %, we have the seventh highest average rate of IRS (the income tax of natural persons) of the OECD. In 2020, on average, 41, 3 % of gross wage was consumed in taxes and contributions and the OECD average is 34, 6 % for a huge idea. We're talking about 6, 7 percentage points more than the OECD average. The number is brutal! The business tax framework can perhaps be even worse — which is not easy! We have the third highest legal rate of IRC ( corporate income tax ) in 31, 5 %, and in Europe only is exceeded by France. But it is not only the legal rate that is very high, it is also the effective tax rate. Today we have the tenth most effective rate of 37 countries covered by the OECD. In Europe, only France, Germany and Greece tax more than we the profits of companies. Since the tax burden is the price of services that the State provides to citizens, there are some questions that can be asked immediately. Have public services improved in recent years? Does the state invest more? Is there better education? Do we have a more cohesive country? Is the country less unequal? We all know that the answer is a round « no! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[PS protests.]] Only the Socialist Party did not understand, but it is true! It's a "no" round and the Portuguese know it's no. [[PSD applause.]] in this equation, the Portuguese have absolute certainty: that they pay more and more taxes. [[It's true! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u7	Then we have members of the government saying that it is good that the tax burden increases, because it reflects the increase in employment and wages. I've heard this in Parliament, too! We just need to thank the government every time the tax burden on families and businesses rises! When it comes up, we should thank the government. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are very clear things that the Portuguese know well because they feel in the skin: we have a very high tax burden; we have a very high public debt and a very high external debt; we have inefficient public services; we have a very bureaucratic state; we have a system of justice that does not meet the demands and we have a government that unfortunately does not have the slightest awareness of this reality. [[PSD applause.]] In view of these facts, we have at least two options: do we want to continue with a model of socialist governance, which has been impoverishing the country cheerfully, with mediocre economic growth, or do we want to change to a new economic policy that empowers competitiveness, based on investment and economic growth? Changing and designing Portugal as a more competitive country, with more investment, with more and better jobs and with better wages should be the design of the government. This path will only be possible if the improvement of the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy is the priority of any government, being at the centre of competitiveness policies, companies as an engine of economic growth, wealth creation and employment. In this regard, in October 2020, during the pandemic during the pandemic, the PSDP presented a set of proposals for the country in October 2020, in October 2020, during the pandemic, the PSDP presented a set of proposals for the country, of which highlights: measures within the fiscal system to increase investment in large industrial projects; creation of capitalisation mechanisms of enterprises ; increasing investment in research and development to a value around 3 % of GDP by 2030 ; an increase in the export rate of high technology products exports to 10 % by 2030 — in 2019, recall, was 3.5 % — in 2019 ; a reduction in the tax burden from 35 % of 35 % to 32 % of GDP; a reduction in the marginal IRC marginal IRC rate of 31, 5 % in 2020, in 2020, to a value below 25 % by 2030, with the gradual, more stable, more competitive, more competitive and stable fiscal system fiscal system ; a faster, more cost-efficient and stable capital; simplification and reduction and reduction of obligations ; and reduction and reduction and reduction of efficiency; the efficiency; and efficiency and efficiency and efficiency; and efficiency; and efficiency; the efficiency and efficiency and efficiency; and efficiency and efficiency; and efficiency; and efficiency and efficiency and should should should should should should ensure; and should ensure ; and should ensure how how how how how how how how how how how how how how how should should should should ensure ; and should should ensure ; and should should should should should ensure ; and should should should should should should should should should ensure ; ; and should ensure ; and should should should ensure ensure ; and should ensure ; and should ensure ; and should ensure ; and should ensure the success; and should ensure the success; and should ensure the success ; the success; the success; and should should ensure the success; the success ; should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should should ensure ; ;
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u8	Mr. Deputies, the time you use from now on will be discounted in the next round, but you can continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u9	I will now finish, Mr President. contrary to what the government does, it is essential to have a medium- and long-term strategic vision and objectives that plan Portugal for another level within the European framework. There's no propaganda, there's no need to act! For the Socialist Party and for the Government there is no PowerPoint that solves any need: it presents itself and is solved! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the PSD, the objectives are very clear: to act on constraints; to act on opportunities; to act on the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy; to support companies that create wealth, create jobs and pay wages;...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u11	... to affirm the ambition of a better country for Portuguese, for workers, students, younger ones, older ones, those who need support, because only with strong growth goals can we avoid the decline that this government has condemned us. Mr. Prime Minister said, one day, that he was sorry when he heard about structural reforms. That is why everything is said about the will of the Government and the Socialist Party. We do not expect the PS government and the left behind to change it, but we all know that we have to change to grow.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u12	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u13	Portugal must not be condemned to poverty, because Portuguese cannot be confined to stagnation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal and the Portuguese deserve much more and have the right to demand much better governance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u14	Mr President, you have four requests for clarification : from the Green Party, the PS, the Liberal Incentive and the CDS-PP. How do you intend to answer? [[Pause.]] The head of the PSD bench, the deputy and friend Adam Silva, indicated that Mr Afonso Oliveira will respond to two requests for clarification at a time. So let's start with the Greens. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Afonso Oliveira, I have listened very carefully to it and still have some doubts about the form or relevance that the PSD attaches to the issue of wage valuation and its contribution to such competitiveness that the PSD now considers to be an urgent challenge for Portugal. Mr President, in 12 minutes of intervention he made no reference to the importance of the valuation of wages for competitiveness. In our view, this seems to us to be a missing reading on such an important issue as competitiveness. In fact, Mr President, we know that the discussion of competitiveness served as a pretext for several governments, including the PSD governments, not only not only to raise wages for those who work, but also, from the outset, it served as a pretext for not updating the national minimum wage and also served as a pretext for promoting changes to labour law that have aggravated labour injustices and imbalances in labour relations, always to the detriment of those who work. We refer, for example, to intentional fragility at the level of collective bargaining, to the level of the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker and, moreover, to the level of the value of compensation, in the event of dismissal. It was, in fact, on behalf of this competitiveness that the PSD and CDS government protected, even more, those who worked and facilitated dismissals, as an invitation, in fact, to employers to fire — a kind of « fire now, because it is easier and cheaper ». [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] That's exactly what happened, Your Honor! And the same argument has been raised in order not to update the national minimum wage. At the time, the PSD was talking about the cost structure of companies and its potentially negative effect on competitiveness. However much more effort can be made, it is not possible to conceive any kind of competitiveness with low wages. That's pure fiction. We have no doubt, Mr President, that, with low wages, we will not go there. Even because it is not necessary to be a great expert to realize that the value of wages, in addition to the justice that entails from the point of view of the distribution of wealth created, is still an important element in increasing the economy and employment and in promoting such competitiveness. We well know that for the PSD it is never appropriate or appropriate to update the national minimum wage, as, moreover, it was seen when they were in the government and how it is now seen. We all remember what the PSD said a little while ago when we talked about a slight, repeat, slight increase in the national minimum wage. [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] Mrs. Member, if I may remind you of this, the leader of your party, Rui Rio, told you about the increase in national minimum wage. If you've forgotten, I can remind you. So, Mr Afonso Oliveira, I wanted to leave you two requests for clarification. The first to know whether the PSD considers that the changes that it has promoted to labour legislation, particularly at the level of the most favourable treatment for workers, at the level of collective bargaining and at the level of the value of compensation, in the event of dismissal, to be a positive factor at the level of competitiveness or, on the contrary, to represent, or continue to represent, a strong obstacle to competitiveness. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask you whether the PSD is actually convinced that competitiveness is achieved with low wages. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u16	There is also a request for clarification by Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group before Mr Afonso Oliveira's first reply. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Afonso Oliveira, I begin with a question and perhaps a regret, taking into account the expectation I had in the debate and in its intervention, for the importance of this debate on the competitiveness of the country. The first question is very clear: does not you think that a debate of this nature, with this dimension, with this depth, after having been approved on the previous day the PRR for Portugal, which in some way answered categorically some of the doubts that the PSD has been raising during the process of creating the PRR, as being, for example, the size of support for companies, which it was clear that Portugal, with 30% of support for companies, compared much better than 25% of Spain or 20% of Italy, countries that you, in fact, came here in this debate, saying that they were much better in this regard? This as a first note;
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u18	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u19	After the executive committee of the European Union, in its analysis, it has said clearly that the PRR had all the necessary instruments for good scrutiny and transparency in the implementation of the funds, which you have also come here several times said that it was not so, that much more had to be done and that it was not being done well, or even after the European Union had come to say that the strategies and priorities were correct and that this was very important for the economic recovery and for the competitiveness of the country, do not you think, I said, Mr President, what made sense of this note in your speech? Even because, and I think that you will agree with me, in order to be credible, you can criticize yourself when things are in fact not right, but you must say well when they are in fact good. It is that if you always say it wrong, in all circumstances, it is not credible and that doesn't seem to me that it is something that should be a dent of the PSD. The regret was that I was waiting for Mr Deputy, following all that has happened in recent years - indeed, Mr Deputy has been back 20 years, but I just want to go back six, I don't need to take back 20 years - came at least to apologize to the Portuguese for the model they have implemented of strategy of the Portuguese economy, a model based on impoverishment, a model in which the main competitiveness factor of the PSD was low wages, they were low costs. Mr President, we already have very low costs. Do you know what the cost/time of Portuguese work is compared to the European Union average? It's almost half! So demand and make our strategy cost even lower... Also above, and you know that, even with the increase in wages—and it was almost 30 % in recent times—I repeat, even with the increase in the minimum wage, that you said that it would lead to increased unemployment, the result was not: we increased wages, unemployment fell as it had never fallen and this shows that your thesis, the the thesis of a purely impoverishment strategy, is a wrong strategy and therefore the honourable Member should have apologized here, in this plenary. I have to finish, but before I ask you a question I wanted to say that you brought here a set of statements that make no sense. The first was to say that the Portuguese economy has never been as bad in terms of competitiveness as it is now. The honourable Member was fortunate because today the global competitiveness ranking in which Portugal rose one place in its competitiveness and last year had risen two. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] So, honourable Member, this didn't go well, until the honourable Member had to explain. Now, I would like to recall the following: The country, in its previous legislature from 2015 onwards, grew more than ever, grew above the European Union average, converged with the European Union, grew 9.3 %, and more than that, he knows that one of the main factors to analyze competitiveness is exports and they have grown as never before, almost 20 % have grown. Today they represent a significant role in the Portuguese economy and already have 43 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr. Member, your proclamations are very interesting from the point of view of PSD propaganda, but in practice they do not have any collage with reality. In fact, it is necessary to take care of the issues of Portuguese competitiveness, but, Mr President, I have found it funny that the idea of the right to tax shock and the reduction of taxes should still be brought to the debate. Mr President, do you not think that the decision of the G7 to impose a minimum IRC should make the PSD reflect and think whether this increasingly low tax logic to attract investment and promote the competitiveness of the country is actually a solution?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u20	In reply, Mr Afonso Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u21	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I am grateful for the questions you have raised but, indeed, the way you talked about competitiveness puts the ENP where it should be: it does not minimize the importance of competitiveness and productivity. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u22	Come with the usual arguments. We also understand, and we agree, that wages should be as high as possible — we defend higher wages, there is no doubt about it, no doubt about it! Now, of course, it is not possible to impose wages on companies. The idea of discussing competitiveness today was precisely to have a serious debate — as much as possible, of course, every Member and every party will do the debate they want — but a debate which will intensify the importance of the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy in order to be able to export, in order to be able to sell, in order to create jobs, in order to create wealth. Only by creating wealth, honourable Member, is it possible to create better wages and more jobs. Otherwise, it is not possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u24	Mr. Carlos Pereira, I did not want to disappoint your expectations. I'm very sad if you didn't like what I said. I'm sad! Finally, that was not my intention, but I also noticed something very interesting: the honourable Member already had this intervention drawing more or less prepared, because he did not hear strictly anything than what I said, which is a pity. But at the beginning of the conversation, to answer you quickly and so that you cannot make statements that are not true, I will tell you the following: I have not only talked about problems, I have talked about issues that have to do with competitiveness and there is no data that I have presented from the rostrum that can be challenged by you— none! That's what was important for us to discuss.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u25	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u26	All the data we have presented are as clear as water. [[That's the problem!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u27	That's the point! Mr President, when we speak in context costs, we speak in bureaucracy, in ineffective and slow justice, in legislative unpredictability, in suffocating fiscal burden, in worsening inequalities — the Portuguese know that this is the case, the PS does not know. And we haven't talked about it, but there's a very serious problem and it's important to realize, that it's about demography, that in the future it will bring us new problems. So, Mr President, there is one thing I want to say to you: I thought you had all these doubts and, in addition to the issues we raised, I will offer you, before this debate on the PSD measures, the set of proposals submitted to the Government in October 2020 and which I have here. The government hasn't called them anything, as usual—it's normal! — but I deliver them to the Socialist Party and to all parties interested in remembering the PSD proposals. This is a plan by 2030. When we spoke, for example, about reducing the tax burden, as the Tribune said, honourable Member, we are talking about the competitiveness of the country's economy. We are not talking only about short-term issues, which are all very important, we are talking about the medium and long-term, and maintaining this discourse, maintaining this kind of policy, we will have a little competitive and stagnated country in the coming years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u28	All right! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u29	We will enter the second round of questions to Mr Afonso Oliveira. To this end, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Afonso Oliveira, I welcome you for choosing the theme that the PSD brings today for its power agenda, because competitiveness, by the way, still needs to be well explained to the parties on the left. We have seen The Greens call the competitiveness of 'talk' — the 'talk' of competitiveness, as if it were a'shit', something that does not matter at all — and they think it is possible to increase wages without increasing competitiveness. It's the way to the funeral, sir! This proves, therefore, that this debate is indeed necessary. And what about Mr. Carlos Pereira? Mr. Carlos Pereira, I am not going to draw your attention to the fact that you have confused today's study on competitiveness with productivity. That's a lapse that can happen to anyone. Now, choosing the six-year scale, because it works, and ignoring the 20- or 25-year-old scale with a stagnant economy, which is pleased that Portugal is converging with the European Union when Portugal has been overcome by five countries which, a little more than a decade ago, were behind us, considering that the economic system is great and does not matter at all, it is wonderful! It's wonderful! [[PS and ENP protests.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u32	Well prays Frei Tomás... Mr. Afonso Oliveira, the clarification I wanted to ask you... [[PS and ENP protests.]] My lords, the decibels are great, but the reason continues on this side! Mr Afonso Oliveira mentioned many aspects that affect competitiveness. from our point of view, things can be seen in a simpler way: a competitive society depends on being able to make good use of the good people and enough capital it should have. Portugal, in fact, has the best qualified generation ever and has a human capital that is not left behind by any other country. That is why it is the system that is imposed on us that is limiting us and not our human capital. Therefore, it is not enough to qualify people, it is necessary to retain them here, but any young person who is a doctor, who is studying and who, after two, three, four or five years, has the net salary of EUR 1900 and is paying the maximum IRS rate of 45 %, has to migrate to continue to live. Do you not think, Mr President, that it is a matter of competitiveness to reduce the progressiveness of the IRS to retain this talent? And as for the capital, completely exhausted in national companies, unable to attract international capital, is it or is it not true that we also have to make our IRC much more competitive? The request for clarification is to be followed by the Liberal Initiative when we propose again to defray these two taxes. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS and ENP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u33	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Afonso Oliveira, first of all I would like to congratulate you on the subject which the PSD has chosen for this debate, but also on the intervention it has made and on the importance it has to substantiate in data the analysis of competitiveness in Portugal. We have gone wrong for a new decisive moment for our competitiveness—and that crucial moment is when the economy will have more resources at its disposal than ever, through European funding—when, in this Parliament, there is no convergence in understanding what really is competitiveness and when there is still anyone who believes that, for us, that we are in an open market and in an economic and monetary union, competitiveness is a "chat" and that this has no effect on wages, that we can have a discussion on the "chat" of competitiveness and then a completely different one, on wages, as if any company that is not competitive can pay some wage that is minimally competitive for families and that remunerates them accordingly. But I would like to ask you a question about one of the essential points of competitiveness, which is fiscal competitiveness, and I will read a sentence on this: « The reduction of IRC is good news and a Christmas gift for SMEs, which represent 75% of employment and 90% of business fabric in Portugal ». This statement was made on a proposal for a reduction of IRC up to 17 %. Mr Silva will say that it must have been done by a dangerous liberal, but not, it was done by the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party at the time, which considered that reducing the IRC to 17% was indeed a present for SMEs, who represent, as has been said and is true, 75% of the employment and 90% of the business fabric. So, if something has changed, it was not Portugal's need to reduce the tax burden on companies; if something has changed, it was the Socialist Party's opinion on this, but if there is one thing that has not changed according to socialist policies, it is that we cannot attract more investment, on the contrary. The agreement was made in 2013 and, the following year, when this was in force and had not yet arrived the current Prime Minister to break it, the IRC tax revenue increased. That is to say, we have proof that reducing the rate does not even reduce tax revenue and obviously increases the availability for companies to reinvest their profits. in this sense, Mr President, I would like to ask you about a debate that exists at the moment and the concern we have about the position that Portugal will take in it. Recently in the G7 ( Group of Seven ), an agreement was made on minimum corporate taxation, and what I ask you is that Portugal should, as seems to be the will of the Government, join this movement. We are talking about a minimum rate similar to that which the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party considered essential and, therefore, knowing that several countries of the European Union are not available to subscribe to this agreement, I ask you whether Portugal has something to gain from entering into another lyricism of an international proposal, not to do its work on tax degradation to have a competitiveness which, at the moment, our economy does not have to be able to attract an investment which, at the moment, our economy does not attract and, in order to improve the average wage, that is, a great goal that we should have of quality of life in Portuguese society, which will be impossible without the two previous assumptions. I ask you whether, like the financial transactions, the digital and all those projects that have given absolutely nothing, from a concrete point of view, Portugal has something to gain from having its government to enter this lyricism and to abandon what should be given priority, which is the fiscal competitiveness of our economy, the ability to attract investment and, with that alone, the ability to increase the average wage and improve the quality of life of Portuguese people. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u35	Mr Afonso Oliveira has the floor of Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u36	Mr President, Mr Afonso Oliveira, I would like to welcome you on the subject that the PSD has brought to the discussion, regardless of the differences which will be clear in the approach to it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u37	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u38	...if anyone still doubts them. I would like to begin by saying that I want to ask you some questions about competitiveness, but I will not do this the irresponsible arraial that Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, called here for a tax regime of the time of the Courts of Tomar, when he was crowned Philip I.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u39	Before! Before!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u40	Therefore, I also want to deal with tax issues, but not in that irresponsible way for those who think that the tax regime is good for competitiveness is the 16th century. Mr President, I would essentially like to ask you four questions. First, he referred to questions relating to labour legislation and to the qualification of workers and the question I wanted to ask him is whether, in so far as he identified a large number of years of decadence — in his concept of decadence — of the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy, there is no temporary standard with the successive changes to labour legislation that have been exacerbating precariousness, which has been destroying and attacking workers' rights, their living conditions, their working conditions. Does he not think that one of the root causes of the problems of Portuguese competitiveness is precisely the weakening of workers' rights and roles, rather than the valuing of work, workers, wages, working conditions and living conditions for Portuguese workers? Having said that, Mr Afonso Oliveira, the first question I ask you is this: does it reflect, in that forum, on the question of competitiveness, not withdraw the conclusion that labour legislation needs to be amended, but to repeal the burdensome rules that impose the limitation of workers' rights, which impose the limitation of employment stability, which impose the liquidation of rights in relation to wages, schedules and other elements of working conditions? The second question is about fiscal policy and also about competitiveness. When the PSD and the CDS have revoked the internal tax regime, has it not occurred to you that this could jeopardise the competitiveness of firms based inside? Particularly in the interior of the country, where micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ( MPMEs ) have to confront those on the other side of the border who develop their activity under much more advantageous economic conditions, did not you get the head that could be liquidating thousands and thousands of MPMEs in the national territory, particularly in the interior areas? Mr Afonso Oliveira, my second question is that this does not call on you to take a step back in the decision that you have taken and really defend the application of a system with tax benefits to the interior, particularly to the MPMEs who need incentives in fact also to this measure? The third question, Mr Afonso Oliveira, is about fuel. One of the main factors that weighs on the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy, to pull the Portuguese economy down, is the high cost of fuels. The PSD is not available to blame me for the decisions it has taken in the Government of Durão Barroso, for liberalising the energy market, for liberalising fuel prices, which led to consecutive increases in fuel prices at the end of these years? [[PSD laughter and protests.]] It has been almost 20 years since the liberalisation of the fuel markets, for which you are responsible, which weighs on the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy, down. I would like to ask you one last question, Mr Afonso Oliveira, because a part of the cost of context which you referred to has to do with the transports and the costs that also weigh on the national economy, particularly on the economy of the country, in relation to the situation of the tolls in the former SCUT(without costs for the user) that remain. Mr Afonso Oliveira, are you no longer sorry to have dropped, in the last State budget, the proposal of the CFP that ended the tolls in the former SCUT? What you did was to keep 50% of the weight behind the MPMEs, when we could have already finished the tolls in the ex-SCUT if the PSD had supported the PCP proposal, because it was only the PSD votes that were missing for that proposal to be approved. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u41	I have the floor to reply to Mr Afonso Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u42	Mr President, Mr. João Oliveira, I am going directly to your questions because you were so concerned with putting all the questions and some more that I thought the debate was ending. The debate is starting, sir! [[PSD laughter.]] If there are materials the CFP wants to present, it's all afternoon for that. We have Mr. Secretary of State of the Economy here and you may ask any questions you want. With regard to the SCUTs, Mr President, if it were not the PSD and then the PCP, on the hour, on the next day—in the morning because it was different at night! — to approve our proposal, the proposal for a 50% reduction in the SCU would never be approved. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u43	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u44	That's how it happened. Therefore, this responsibility does not pass it on to us, Mr President. Regarding the issue of fuel, I apologize, but if anyone has to ask questions, it's us. Who's in the government right now? Who is supporting the government right now? Who approved the State budgets for six years? It was the PCP, the Left Block and the Socialist Party, and that issue is fundamental. [[PSD applause.]] And I will give you a final answer to the question of wages, Mr. We agree, and I have no doubt about it, in which we all liked that everyone would earn much more, that the average wage would be higher, but there is one question that we are sure: without increasing the productivity of companies and without increasing the competitiveness of the economy there are no higher wages. If there is...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u45	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u46	Is that the opposite? Oh, my God! So ask TAP! Ask Minister Pedro Nuno Santos how he does in TAP. In the TAP, the decision is being made to fire workers by a minister of this government. So isn't the productivity at stake at this time when people fire? Oh, my God! For God's sake! Finally, Mr President, I thank the honourable Members very much. Deputies João Cotrim de Figueiredo and João Almeida for the issues they raised, which have much to do with our speech, with our proposal to affirm competitiveness as a central factor. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo also said — and very well! — that the Socialist Party is not in this register. The PCP is not there either, and the ENP has already been noticed that it is not, which is a pity. It is a pity because this afternoon was very important, we think, to deal with a subject with this dimension and this importance. We can deal here with the most traceable issue—I say 'trace' in the right sense—, lighter, but the issue is all very important and it is important that we make that speech. Mr. João Almeida, I also very much agree with you that the issue of productivity is fundamental to competitiveness. As for IRC issues, we have been dealing with them for a long time and we have proposals in this regard. This has also been presented and our speech is very responsible because it does not have to be immediately, it does not have to be now, it has to be when possible. However, there must be a policy, an objective, a strategy. What the government does not have is a strategy, a vision for the country and goals for the future, and as long as nothing happens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u47	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u48	What is happening with this government is that the country is becoming impoverished and the danger right now is that we have a Recovery and Resilience Plan that, if it is not implemented as it should be applied, with efficiency and effectiveness in the sectors that it should be, we will have a very serious problem in the country. Let us hope that this is not the case, but we will be here to monitor and monitor the government, which is our obligation. I therefore very much agree with your speech and the IRC issue is central, it is being put at European level at the global level and we sincerely believe that this debate must exist. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u49	Mr Under-Secretary of State and Economic Affairs has the floor to speak on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, since 2015, the competitive strategy of Portugal has been based on clear public policies: bet on private investment, bet on skills and innovation and bet on modern industry and value-added services. The debate and democratic choices require options, clarity and scrutiny of results on the basis of data, contrary to what was continued in the beginning of the past decade, in which the priority consisted of a competitive devaluation, with the reduction of wages and the price of products to stimulate short-term adjustments, especially due to greater use of existing capacities and increased working hours, stimulating exports but not productive investment and in research and development. Let us take the data for the debate to take place with facts. National exports increased 28 % between 2015 and 2019, with 20 % growth in international trade in goods and 43 % in services, resulting not only from tourism activity, which grew 58 % in this period, but also from non-tourism services, such as engineering and other specialists, at which growth rates increased 30 %. In turn, the balance of trade remained always positive over this period and in 2019 exports accounted for 43 % of national GDP. By 2019, more jobs were created, reducing the unemployment rate from 12, 4 % to 6, 5 %, and the total investment increased by about 40 %, a much higher than the average rate of investment growth in the European Union, which is significantly half of it. To this end, we used incentive systems in a focused way: EUR 13 billion of leveraged business investment; EUR 6. 4 billion of incentives, using the available allocation in full, of which 59 % of incentives have already been paid, which corresponds to a rate of execution of payments higher than the realisation of investment by companies. We also intensively used the instruments of fiscal support for research and development such as SIFIDE ( System of Tax Incentives for Research and Business Development ) to stimulate this investment, which by 2020 was about twice that used at the beginning of this period. Between 2015 and 2019, the Portuguese economy grew on average by about 2 %, 8 % per year, converging with the other Member States of the European Union, a performance compared with growth below 1 % in the first half of this decade. During this period, corporate debt fell by more than 10 percentage points in GDP. Disalappointing was very significant in all types of companies, but I would like to stress that the decrease in financial pressure, the relationship between financing and results, was, above all, in micro-enterprises, where it improved most. The improvement of the operational margins of companies, the increase of activity, the growth of exports, where we have gained market share in all the main trading partners of Portugal, has made it very sensitive to improve the capital own of companies, which were more than five percentage points in five years, to levels without parallel in our economic history of this century. If the investment of companies in Portugal grew at higher levels than the European Union, the acquisition of business investment by AICEP ( Portugal's Investment and Foreign Trade Agency ) was on average more than twice as much as the previous five years, successively beating annual records, becoming ever higher in terms of GDP than the European Union's average. The IMD report ( Institute of Management Development ) published today highlights this positive trajectory with significant improvements in business efficiency and legislative framework. We compare well in this report, both with countries in the south, Spain and Italy, and with countries in the east, which are very integrated in the German economy, such as Slovakia or Poland. The strategy followed by the government has combined the role of entrepreneurs and workers in valuing our workforce, with creating more and better jobs, more distribution and with increasing the minimum wage. unlike those who have always seen the cost of work as a problem, we believe that the answer is in the creation of value through more research and development, more investment of the means of production, more industrial organization and more competences, which are the determining factors of productivity. The path to competitiveness based on distinctive factors, for more and better economic development, is not just looking at costs, but above all at the capacity to generate economic value. Valuing better paid employment and having more skills may not be the easiest way, but it is certainly the one that can bring the most results to our future. Average wages have increased as well as the minimum wage, but we want an economic model based on better working conditions and not just wages. In the work created between 2015 and 2019, 91 % corresponded to effective links. Obviously, 2020 was a tough and difficult year, in which, due to limitations on mobility and the necessary social distance, the initial closure of our export markets and the persistence of a climate of uncertainty resulting from the health crisis, we had strong economic impacts, which have a particular impact on economic activities more limited by restrictions on social proximity and mobility. The measures taken were aimed at preserving companies and employment, minimizing impacts, maintaining as much capacity as possible that in a demand recovery framework could sustain the growth of our business activity. We are fully aware of the difficulties. We recognize the enormous resilience of entrepreneurs and regret the jobs that could not be preserved, but we can see that the most pessimistic forecasts, from GDP falling to two digits and steep increases in unemployment rates, have not been confirmed. The average unemployment rate in the European Union at the end of 2020 was 7, 3 %, in the euro area was 8 % and in Portugal was 6, 9 %. The most recent data for April this year are expected. Exports of goods have a growth of 83 %, including exceeding exports of April 2019 by around 7 %. Business volume indices in industry and services, made available by INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), grew around 50%. IEFP data indicate that unemployment declined in April and the daily indicator of economic activity from Banco de Portugal is now above the 2019 counterpart period. These signs are mirrored by the Economic Bulletin published yesterday by the Banco de Portugal, which reviewed growth projections for the Portuguese economy and reviewed unemployment downwards, including the forecasts presented by the Government in the recent Stability Programme. According to the Central Bank, GDP is expected to grow 4, 8 % by 2021 and the economy is expected to return to pre-crisis levels by the beginning of 2022. However, we are clear that the behaviour of industry and specialized technology services will be better than in activities limited by mobility, such as tourism, some trade and certain personal services. The Recovery and Resilience Plan, approved yesterday by the European Commission, will give new impetus to this recovery, strengthening the capacity to invest, reform and structurally transform the Portuguese economy through disruptive investments, progress in value chains and greater technological integration in our products and services. This plan will increase the expertise profile of our companies, but the government will articulate the implementation of the RPP with the next Plurianual Financial Framework, focusing on investments in support of business modernization. We understand who bets on competitiveness for costs, with the control of wages and seeking to gain competitiveness by tax. However, the recent agreement reached by the G7 Finance Ministers, establishing a minimum IRC for large technology multinationals, illustrates that the competitiveness strategy should not be based on fiscal competition between countries to attract new companies with lower taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u51	That's exactly why!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u52	That is not even our way. We are looking for a way to gain competitiveness by value, competitiveness by investment by our companies, competitiveness by our competences. Therefore, it is good to know that the investment is recovering and that despite the second confinement it has increased by 3, 5 % in the first quarter. Also to date there are investment intentions of more than EUR 1.6 billion, recorded in the notice of applications for aid from the Productive Innovation Incentives System, to which the very significant investments expected by the tendering of the Open Investment Contract Scheme will be added. That is why the focus of economic policy in the near future will be to strengthen business investment, decarbonization and the uptake of new external structural investment; to strengthen support for research and development, technological interface centres and projects in consortium, within the framework of PRR and the Agendas for Business Innovation, and to promote changes associated with digital transition; to strengthen support for activities with more time of recovery, in particular tourism, in accordance with the Plan Reactivate Tourism, Building the Future, in which the action plan is concerned both the recovery and the improvement of the sustainability of tourism activities, because nothing worse for the sector than not understanding that habitat preservation and the value of the differentiation of destinations is also done with the preservation of differentiating habits and cultures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u53	Mr Secretary of State, the Bureau records eight entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u54	I shall answer four to four, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u55	So, in order to make the first request for clarification from the first group of four, Mr Hugo Carvalho, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u56	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, we are today talking about competitiveness in this debate, a broad, comprehensive issue involving various aspects: from justice to the economy, from education to security. An important issue that has to be addressed without myths. First of all, is it important for business competitiveness to qualify the population? Is it true that the Portuguese population has increasing educational rates and is or is it not true that today we have younger people attending higher education? It is true and this is a mark of the governance of the Socialist Party. Secondly, is it important that the competitiveness of companies have more investment in research? The truth is that today there is more investment, the truth is that today there is a large and growing investment in research and development and this is also a mark of the governance of the Socialist Party. Thirdly, is it important for business competitiveness to create a fast and efficient transport network, from the railway to our ports, which allows for the entry and exit of goods? It is indeed important and it is also with this government that there is a new bet on the railway and the port sector. Fourthly, do we want our business competitiveness to be based on pillars that respect labour rights, ecosystems and their natural resources? If that is the case, we must also make clear choices about what kind of competitiveness we want. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion we are having today is not just about matters of fiscal attractiveness. Our business competitiveness cannot be achieved on a single basis of fiscal competition between countries. We must create fair conditions of competition between internal markets. And this is not just a fiscal issue, it is also social and environmental, and we must ensure that there is no competitiveness on the basis of a society in which not everyone can have the same degree of development. That is why we reject being competitive for low wages, which is why we reject being competitive if we do not respect labour rights, which is why we reject being competitive if we do not respect sustainable development and the environment. Mr. Secretary of State, the designs I outlined here are for us, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, points of honour for the development of a strategy of business competitiveness in our country. We therefore welcome the way in which the Recovery and Resilience Plan was built and approved, still yesterday. Mr Secretary of State, the question I would like to leave to you is to see in this document, in the strategy that has been followed, the right pillars for us to continue to build business competitiveness and to recover from the delays that the country still needs to recover. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u57	To make a request for clarification, Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u58	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it is extraordinary that the official discourse opts to deliberately ignore the tragic failure that has been the development of the Portuguese economy in the last two decades. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u59	The only reason for this is that the PS, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party want to spread this circumstance because they fear that the Portuguese will wake up and look at this political immobilism, a solution that does not serve the interests of the country. And the most extraordinary is that there is not even VV. Ex., a mere civic assault. There is no conformism and there is a mere decline management of a country that needs to free its best energies in order to embrace a new order of growth and well-being for families and businesses. But the government says it's okay. He says it's all right in private investment and has told us, many times, that everything was in the way of being good in public investment. It was said, in 2015, 2016, 2017 and out there, that public investment was not progressing because there were no projects, but we arrived at 2020 and this extraordinary made of all six fiscal years since 2015 Portugal has been in the queue of Europe with regard to public investment. We are the last country, there is none behind us and this is the sinister picture of 2020, in which Portugal once again has less than one third of public investment from those countries, which are cohesion countries to which we should compare ourselves. The question I raise is simple and I believe that the Portuguese have the right to know the answer. The first thing we saw was a prime minister who came to the close of the President of the Commission and when they shook him with the money said, "When can I go to the bank? » This is a portrait of our decline, our lack of ambition and the government's inability to offer an alternative to the country. Mr Secretary of State, I ask you the following question: what will the government do to ensure that the future is not equal to the past? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u60	For clarifications, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys, speaking of competitiveness, in fact, always has quite different meanings depending on where the proposal for debate comes from. On the right, as a general rule, the debate is used to attack public services, to hate liberalism which deliberately hides precarious models that cannot justify everything. Therefore, in fact, this is of little interest to us because it is important to realize how the country can grow economically at the same time as it progresses with rights, wages and, in particular, when we live by hand with a crisis caused by the pandemic that already has social consequences and economic consequences. Now, Mr Secretary of State, it is within the framework of how we can overcome this crisis that I would like to ask you two questions on two very specific subjects that have everything to do with this competitiveness debate. Firstly, I refer to the importance of valuing knowledge, research, as an engine of economic growth and as an enhancer of the national industry itself. We cannot accept statements like those of the Minister of Science and Higher Education yesterday. Minister Manuel Heitori said, and I quote: "I am radically against employment contracts. It is a basic principle'. Mrs. Members of the Government, it is unacceptable that the head of science in Portugal have this view, because it is not possible to want a competitive country in research and then have only one, in five researchers, with a contract without end. It is not possible to want a competitive country in research and knowledge without infrastructure and serious investment. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, I ask you if you think we can continue with a model based on precariousness such as the one we have seen in the area of research and knowledge. Since in its initial intervention he spoke of investment in research and development, how does the Government intend to intervene more robustly in science in Portugal so that this current model of precariousness can be ended and thus enhance the excellent research work done, especially in the public sector, in our country and what relevance it has to do, and can it continue to have, for the Portuguese economy itself? Secondly, I refer to another matter that has to do with wages and work. We have already realized that, in the debate on competitiveness, there is often an idea that Portugal is competitive because of low wages. On the other hand, today, we realize that, on the right hand hand, this issue has no place at all in this debate. It's a little sad for the whole country, but it's not anything new like that either. What we think is that this idea, which the Secretary of State also referred to in his initial speech, must continue to be combated, but we need to clarify how this will be done in practice. That is, as I said, the recovery of wages is urgent and essential in order to be able to have a more robust economy, but we cannot rule out, for example, the growing wave of very fair labour struggles for social exploitation, especially in the last year, because we are starting a crisis more strongly. For example, we cannot rule out the fact that salaries of persons licensed in Portugal fell 17 % between 2010 and 2018 and, above all, that we need to have a labour law that corresponds to the best working conditions. And then I ask you why the Government, particularly the Socialist Party, has not followed the proposals that the Left Block has put forward to improve issues such as collective bargaining, the most favourable treatment and to withdraw the pilgrim idea that the experimental period can be extended by not knowing how many months. In conclusion, I would like to leave the question to you about wages, because we know that social dialogue in this specific debate has served for the government to leave too many times everything in it and hold back important advances. So I ask you how the government looks at this and whether or not it has a concrete strategy for the valuation of wages and as a result for the qualification of employment and the economy itself. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u62	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks on this first block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, we cannot debate the issue of competitiveness without speaking specifically about the problems faced by thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and which have been particularly affected during this period by the crisis we are experiencing and which are the basis of the Portuguese economic fabric. Thus, we would like to ask some concrete questions so that you can give answers, not to us, but to the entrepreneurs who face so many difficulties at present. First, on tax matters, the waiver of payment was approved, and this measure has to be applied without any kind of subterfuge. We are not talking about benefits, we are talking about the dispensation of any payment on account, so it is important that the government here clarifys that this measure will be applied without any subtly. It is also necessary to create a special scheme for the late payment of taxes for companies which are in greater difficulty. On business support measures, which depend on their ministry, it is necessary to strengthen them, but it is also necessary to resolve another issue which is the end of the discrimination of companies based on the EAC ( Code of Economic Activities ) of the type of accounting, whether or not to have workers, of debts held by banks, or of other debts held by banks. It is very important not to have these discriminations for these companies as laid down in Article 359. the budget, which eliminates any type of discrimination on the basis of these criteria. Banking moratoriums, as you know, have a very important role in Portugal, different from other countries, and we have to address a problem that, sooner or later, will be on the table. For this reason, the PCP presented a bill that extended the moratoriums both on the part of the housing and on the part of the moratoriums on business credits. In the specialty, the PS and PSD decided to limit the scope of this proposal and still subject it to the authorisation of the European Banking Authority which, in fact, did not even deliver an opinion, even though it had been requested by the Assembly of the Republic. We ask what contacts are being made by the government to remove any obstacles to the prolongation of these moratoriums and, when we arrive in September, how will we respond to a situation of thousands of companies who, because they do not have the activity to function regularly, are not in a position to start paying normally their benefits. Finally, we would like to ask you about energy costs. We tried to ask Mr Environment and Climate Action questions yesterday, but we did not get an answer, so we are now putting them to you because we are talking about context costs and, for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, energy costs actually represent a large part of their costs. It is the increase in fuels, it is the increase in gas, the increase in electricity—and still this week the ERSE (Regulatory Energy Services Entity) announced a 3 % increase in the regulated rate! This is an increase of 1 € per month in regulated rates which will then also occur in unregulated rates, because it is always reflected in the unregulated rate. When we already have one of the most expensive energy bills in Europe, which not only harms citizens but also companies with context costs, what is the government's response to lower energy costs? This is also an essential issue for the future of many micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that need Mr. Secretary of State to give concrete answers to the problems they face today. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u64	To reply, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Economics, João Neves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u65	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the questions put by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, try to respond to the comments, to the comments that have been made and to the questions in particular. Mr Hugo Carvalho referred to a set of aspects that are central to the economic policy of this Government: competences, investment, accessibility and logistical capacity so that economic activities can be able to ensure their competitive capacity, stimulate exports, promote more qualified employment and obtain the conditions for sustainable investment in the medium and long term. This is of course always renewed work, but what is essential to achieve is an economic policy that sustains the central elements of productivity and therefore stimulates the competitive capacity of our companies and the country. I can no longer agree with the comments he made in terms of the importance of stimulating investment, research and development, because it is the basis of the competitive capacity of our companies. Mr Cristovão Norte, who I believe is still present in the Plenary, indicated that the debate has to be held over two decades. Why two? Why not three? Why only about the political responsibility of this government, because a debate is based on policy instruments, objectives, the definition of what priorities are and the evaluation that this House and citizens make of the government's options. What I presented were the de facto elements, the data of what was economic activity over this period from 2015 to 2019. This is because of these options, because of this implementation of the policies that the Government is responding to in this House and that is what I intended to do in my initial intervention. What was possible to achieve from 2015 to 2019 was a significant strengthening of private business investment. Obviously, it is mainly on the side of companies producing wealth and the main contribution to the economic growth of this period came from private investment. We believe that the essential way forward is to stimulate the investment capacity of the business side, because that is the centre of the country's competitive capacity. Obviously, the construction of a solution that is not only supported in private investment, but also in public investment is absolutely necessary and of course the PRR will stimulate investments of an essential public nature to solve structural problems. Therefore, what we want to achieve in the near future is the combination of private business investment capacity with the concentration of public investments in essential aspects to solve structural problems. Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block spoke in knowledge and working conditions. Obviously, I do not have details on the role of working links in the field of science, but I would like to make it clear that the country's investment in science, with the results we have already achieved and with the economic value associated with the work of Portuguese science and research, also has an essential stimulus in the PPR. What we want to achieve is a passage from knowledge on the side of universities, research centres to companies, to promote structural changes in the country. This will certainly be done with more investment, with greater working capacity, with more investment in research conditions and I have no doubt that we will have a path to strengthening the working conditions of Portuguese science in the coming years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u66	Your colleague doesn't think so! Mr Under-Secretary of State and Economic Affairs — That is also why in the PRR we will implement an initiative called the ‘Interface Mission’ to strengthen investment in the hiring of researchers, in equipment and in solutions that allow the transfer of capabilities, knowledge, scientific and technological information from these centres to companies. Obviously, I cannot agree more with you about a strategy based on salaries that are remobilised, which strengthen competences and are therefore valued in the double dimension of increasing the minimum wage. We have a predictable trajectory for this and we have the ability to monitor productivity increases that are also reflected in the distribution of income associated with this evolution. The conditions for a successful economic development strategy cannot be based on a devaluation of the role of work, and I am not only referring to remuneration, but also to the links and overall working conditions. That is why we are proposing, of course, to work in the future. Mr Duarte Alves of the Portuguese Communist Party, with regard to the payment of the IRC, I have indications from my colleague Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs that we will fully comply with what is provided for in the State Budget Act, as it could indeed be. Obviously, we have gone through a difficult period because of the health circumstances we all know, but I would like to give the latest data on the evolution of corporate debt. And I would like to mention why, in the first quarter of this year, although the situation of confinement has been quite restrictive, there has been a significant decrease in the investment of companies in all economic sectors, but above all, and in particular in the industry sector, because industrial activity has been recovering more sensitively than the others. On the basis of the data provided by Banco de Portugal, we still have a very significant volume of moratoriums in force : about EUR 24 billion, of which one third presents capacity problems on the part of companies to realize the disbursements corresponding to the credit granted.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u67	And when do we get to September?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u68	But this period has allowed, in a very sensitive way, as the recovery of economic activity is also taking place, the reduction of bank debt. Of course, we are still facing a problem, especially in economic activities whose restrictions on mobility and proximity are more significant, as is the case with the tourism sector. But as the recovery of economic activities is taking place, it is clear that the decline in moratoriums and the volume of moratoriums will gradually be achieved. We are available and working together with the Ministry of Finance and Banco de Portugal to find solutions that are not of general scope, because the problem at the moment is not that dimension, but focused on areas and activities whose credit disbursement capacity is most affected by a lower level of activity. Therefore, we are fully aware that the capitalisation instruments we have foreseen from the point of view of the implementation of the RRP will help reduce pressure on the treasury of companies, especially those most affected by lower levels of activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u69	We will move on to the next round of five requests for clarification, the first of which is for Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u70	Mr President, Secretary of State, I will return to the topic of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises because these companies must be the centre of our concerns also when we talk about competitiveness, not only for what they represent for our economy and for the maintenance of jobs, but also because they live moments of real distress and uncertainty, especially because of the pandemic. This leads us, moreover, to the fact that, rather than being competitive, these companies are truly concerned about their survival. Let us see, according to the Portuguese Confederation of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, there were, at the end of last year, about 1 million and 100,000 small entrepreneurs with many difficulties—and today they will certainly be more! — to pay for wages, income, water, energy and other expenses that they had to bear even when they were forced to suspend their activity. Mr Secretary of State, as you will recall, on a proposal from the Greens, a line of support for the treasury for micro and small enterprises was created. An agile, effective and without excessive bureaucracy was expected to respond to this so important and so decisive segment for our economy. Under the State Budget Act, the Government was thus bound by the creation of this treasury fund and by its regulation until the end of March of this year. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to point out the situation of this important measure. Until March of this year, the Greens had the opportunity to question, here in plenary, the Prime Minister on the subject, and he assured, in fact, in the presence of the Minister of Economy, that this treasury fund would be available from 1 April, as expressly provided for in the State Budget Act. Mr. Secretary of State, it is important to see whether the treasury fund was even available on 1 April, as was guaranteed by the Prime Minister and according to the State Budget Act and, if so, what was the reaction of micro and small enterprises in terms of applications to that fund. If, on the other hand, he was not available on that date, Mr Secretary of State, he is interested to know the reasons why this possible failure of the Government could be further justified in terms of deadlines provided for in the State Budget Act for 2021. And now, Mr Secretary of State, if it is not yet available, I ask you when it will finally be operational so that micro and small businesses can access this important support, which, by not solving all the problems, can, however, make an important contribution to avoiding the definitive closure of many of them, with all the consequences arising there, particularly at the level of unemployment figures.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u71	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u72	I shall conclude, Mr President, by reminding the Secretary of State that, according to the State budget for this year, this treasury fund should be available from 1 April. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u73	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Jamila Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u74	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, after several years of growth, in which Portuguese real GDP grew more than the European Union average and there was an objective improvement of the labour market, fulfilling a revenue which the PSD considered mathematically impossible, came the COVID-19 pandemic. This pandemic came without notice and seriously affected the Portuguese and world economy, having reached all aspects of social and business activity, especially in the hospitality and restoration sector of our country, clearly marking 2020 and 2021. Compared to the period prior to the crisis, real GDP fell by about 7 % in 2020, but according to the most recent data from the Banco de Portugal, we will recover in the first half of 2022. In fact, the response of budgetary policy to the COVID-19 pandemic has, as far as possible, kept the stable economy, yet we cannot and cannot spread it, causing a worsening of the budgetary outlook. The Government's substantial support protected the labour market during the crisis, limiting the increase in the unemployment rate, which still rose by 0, 4 % compared to the previous year. All measures directed towards families and companies most affected by the crisis have sought to ensure productive capacity and greater growth potential. Today, it is important, therefore, to stress the possibility and need to relaunch the economy. And this is reflected, well, by an economic instrument such as the PRR. The first RPP approved by the European Commission and worthy of multiple praise must be particularly high. We are therefore in the presence of a high degree of interdependence of three sets of policies: first, those that have brought us together with the European Union and rehabilitate the economy and the labour market by February 2020 ; after February 2020, those that have been promoted in an emergency mode since the first hour, supporting those most affected by the crisis; and now the expansionist recovery policies that the government will bring to the country with the help of the PRR. The PSD has raised this debate because of the alleged concern about competitiveness. Given that we have not yet forgotten how they tried to promote this same competitiveness between 2011 and 2015, we have listened very carefully to all the speeches made so far and we cannot fail to be alert. Today, in the design of the post-pandamy, in fact, international entities reinforce the message of the need for competitiveness and the need for the economy to be leveraged with the learning that the pandemic crisis has given us. in this context, the digital acceleration of institutions is one of the themes, as well as economic recovery based on sustainable and inclusive prosperity. To this end, four areas are seen by all these entities: green economy; revitalization and investment in human capital; reconstruction and transformation of products and markets; investment in innovation and development ( & D ). We have heard an entire speech from Mr Afonso Oliveira, but on this I have not said a word! Paraphrasing what the President of the Eurogroup said today, « Portugal has mounted a very, very strong PRR ». The PRR will place EUR 14 billion in the form of non-refundable support available to our country. Mr. Secretary of State, one of the instruments of this PRR is the Development Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u75	Speaking of fiction!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u76	Without capitalisation, there is no competitiveness. Therefore, we also know that this is a very important instrument that this PRR puts at its disposal. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State about when and how companies can have access to it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u77	You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr Duarte Marques, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, the PSD has marked this debate because it is really concerned, and we should not waste too much time on these little tricks about who has had such a policy or failed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u79	Little tricks? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u80	The disorientation of the Government and the Socialist Party on the state of the Portuguese economy and how we have come here is so great that we are only more concerned because they do not know what to do! The same government that said it was going to recover the economy on the basis of domestic consumption came to say recently that it was a great success thanks to exports. This well reveals the lack of notion! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u81	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u82	Mr. Secretary of State, we really want to help and are concerned. This money did not fall from heaven, it came here thanks to the suffering of many people. Today, which has been four years of Pedragon's misery, the greatest respect we can have for what happened this past year is to make good use of the money that Europe is going to give us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u83	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u84	This means having judgment and, above all, implies ensuring that the money we are going to spend and invest will continue to follow and that there will be ways of financing. The PSD has already submitted many proposals, including that it should be a more business-focused PRR and that it does not increase the expenditure ahead. I would like you to assure us of this, so that no one has to pay next, Mr. Secretary of State. By the way, we have also proposed the interconnection between the various instruments: the PT2020, which we have failed to implement, the PT2030, which comes there, and the PRR, where the Development Bank should be, as Mrs Deputy says, and very well. But, Mr. Secretary of State, the Development Bank? Oh, my God! I hope it wasn't that bank that the Prime Minister was talking about yesterday. It's just that the Development Bank is not ready yet, it's not working yet, and it didn't show up last year's accounts! And the funds that gave rise to it did not reveal your accounts either, Mr Secretary of State! This is embarrassing! The questions I leave you, Mr Secretary of State, are very simple: can we be sure that the PRR will actually be executed and that the delays that occurred with the PT2020 instruments will not happen with the PRR? Is the government prepared to correct the mistakes in the way and, above all, to realize that a growthless economy does not give any country a future? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u85	You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr. João Almeida, from the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, I begin by complimenting you. In fact, it brought several figures to this debate which, and it is normal for them to do so, vary in terms of time—he criticized the Social Democratic Party, but he ended up doing so in his intervention—because both ended in 2019 and in 2020 and the series were both 5 and 10 years old. That is not illegitimate because it was said to what period they referred to. However, there were data presented in the initial intervention of the PSD, when the topic was introduced, which were not denied and can not fail to deserve our concern. Now we're talking about competitiveness and then we're going to discuss each other's options to get it. But what was not denied by the Secretary of State, on behalf of the Government, is that between 2000 and 2019 the total investment decreased by 18 %, and that is something that at the level of the European Union only happened in Greece. You asked why it's a 20-year series and it's not another one. Mr Secretary of State, if you like, we can analyze the data since our entry into the European Economic Community. But if it is irrelevant in 20 years, we have lost 18 % of the investment, then we have to worry about the government's interpretation of the data. Above all, we also lost, compared with the European average, our position on productivity. This does not happen by chance, because there are options that are made by this government, whose rational question needs to be asked. And that's what I wanted to ask you about. Mr Secretary of State, as I have already said, asked the PSD to do so, said here that Portugal's commitment to the minimum tax coming from the G7. I would like to ask you what is the rationality of this support that Portugal gives to this compromise. For this simple reason: what has to win a small and medium-sized Portuguese company with this agreement, Mr Secretary of State? That is the essential reality of Portuguese companies. What, from the competitiveness point of view, will win a small and medium-sized Portuguese company knowing that, whatever it does, it produces what it produces, exports what it exports, a part of what it produces will always go to the state? And this agreement that comes from the G7 says: the State, which does not invest anything at all in a company, at the time of seeking the profits, guarantees at least a quota which may be 15 % or 20 %. Without being an shareholder you're going to look for 15% or 20% of the dividends! Is that how this socialist government feels it is dynamizing small and medium-sized enterprises? Is it telling them that part of what they can earn is certain to the state, what happens, economic growth, no economic growth, greater wealth creation, better wages, less wages? from a national point of view, is this completely absurd when, above all, we already know that, in the context of the European Union, countries that currently have more competitive tax regimes have already said that they will not abdicate these tax regimes? Oh, my God! So we have absolutely nothing to gain from being on the side of strong economies that obviously defend this solution, because they do not want to have competition from other emerging economies that can effectively go to seek their tax revenue. And we, who are not emerging, put ourselves on the side of the strongest countries in a pathetic attitude. from the point of view of competitiveness, it is pathetic, because we are not only harming our companies as we will challenge the ability to attract investment. Question : from an economic point of view — from an ideological point of view, to my point of view, what is the rationality of Portugal to support an agreement for a minimum taxation? What is the advantage for the Portuguese economy to support this type of proposal? That's all I want to know, Mr. Secretary of State. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u87	For a final request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cláudia André of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u88	Mr President, Secretary of State, the economic development of a country is closely linked to the quality of its education. The competitiveness of our country also results from the quality of its formation and its education. But in this country, in our Portugal, 47% of Portuguese, between the ages of 25 and 60, do not have full secondary education. And also only one quarter of the Portuguese, between the same ages, completed higher education. The percentage of other Portuguese people who claim to have participated in education or training in 2020 is only 10 %. The President of the National Education Council said this week that technological support in schools is clearly insufficient. He also said that more teacher training is needed in the area of new technologies. He also said that new teaching models need to be innovated. In April 2020 92 % of school directors replied that in their view the equipment they had was insufficient and had no internet connection. Mr. Secretary of State, we know that the digital plan and the PRR promise miracles. But these miracles have already been promised, with EUR 900 million, by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education on 1 June, with a very simple PowerPoint. So far, we don't understand where they're going to spend, how they're going to spend, and what they're going to spend this money on. That's why we're worried. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u89	Education and training are the key to overcoming these challenges, the challenges that Portugal needs to overcome in competitiveness. So, Mr Secretary of State, I ask you: how do you feel that the economy of our country can become competitive, if the lost learning and lifelong training are being completely neglected by this government? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u90	To respond to these requests for clarification, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u91	Mr President, I am grateful again for the questions and comments made by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Starting with Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP, with regard to the difficulties of some smaller companies, I would like to give some data. What took place during the first quarter of this year was a very significant disadvantage of economic activities, especially micro-enterprises. The most recent data available are precisely in this regard. But I do not want to leave any doubt, we still have to face very significant problems from the point of view of the indebtedness of companies, particularly micro-enterprises. In the last period, in particular in the first quarter of this year, we have given very significant support to economic activities, based on non-refundable support lost, mainly to smaller companies, in the sectors most affected by the situation of maintenance difficulties of what is activity based on restrictions on mobility and business activity. The payments made over this period, aimed at micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, especially these mechanisms of direct fund-raising, have reached around EUR 1.6 billion. It was a very significant effort on our part to help mitigate the financing problems of business activities, and we believe that we could, of course, contribute in a limited way, to the maintenance of the activity of these companies. According to the most recent data, the number of failures recorded during this period did not have significant increases in relation to past periods. Therefore, the combination of employment support, which we have kept in force, with the support directed to the most affected entities, has allowed us to endure what is the activities of this type of company.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u92	What about the treasury fund? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u93	But we will certainly carry out, within the budget of the State, the treasury line that we have planned and on which we are working. Therefore, we will certainly implement this measure in order to help increase access to financing by small and medium-sized enterprises. Mrs Jamila Madeira drew attention to the steps taken by this Government in the recovery and revitalization of economic activity, supported by business investment and the research and export capacity of our companies. It referred to the emergency solutions we have adopted to allow recovery now not only to be done by increasing demand but also because companies have maintained activities and now have not only the PRR funds available, which we will begin to implement very soon, in particular with regard to capitalisation activities and increased access to finance, as well as the instruments of Portugal 2020, which will be most associated with the modernisation of enterprises. This is the way we will continue to pursue: to support business investment, to strengthen its research and development capacity, to increase its export vocation, to strengthen the instruments for a more decarbonised economy, which will enable us to sustain, in a safe way, what economic activities will be in the future. Mr. Paulo Marques said we all have a judgment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u94	Duarte Marques!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u95	I'm sorry, Duarte Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u96	It's okay! What matters is that you answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u97	I have no doubt that this judgment must be a collective judgment in relation to the future, and this judgment must be marked very clearly by what the guidelines and instruments of public policy are. Therefore, an intervention that fights the different phases over the last 20 years, which makes a glaring table of the economic crises we live, that cannot distinguish between the instruments of response to the crisis and the instruments of stimulating competitiveness in a framework of market stability, I think it is very negative and only increases the confusion regarding the assessment of Portuguese about the differences in choices, legitimate and democratic, among members of society. Our option is to implement investment support investments. In addition, I would like to correct some of the information that has been provided : the instruments supporting companies'investment have the highest rate of implementation of the current multiannual financial framework, have one of the highest implementation rates in the European Union. Therefore, if we certainly have different levels of commitment to implement Portugal 2020, it will not be on the side of companies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u98	It's in payments!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u99	... where we have all the funds executed. We have 59 % payments made and will certainly carry out all the investments that have been contracted on the basis of the remaining years of implementation of the programme. Mr. João Almeida, I apologize too, but I cannot understand your position on IRC.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u100	So, what about the Development Bank? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u101	The debate must be informed. What has been done in the Portuguese Presidency on tax transparency and on the relationship between turnover and taxes paid in each of the countries in which execution is made is extremely important and will make the difference for the future. What is not to happen is that a country uses a strategy of fiscal competitiveness to allow one of the largest technology companies in the world active in Europe to settle in Ireland and not pay a single cent of IRC. This is incomprehensible, from the point of view of the country's fiscal competitiveness strategy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u102	Would you like to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u103	What we stand for is fiscal harmonisation, which does not mean that harmonisation leads to a single rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u104	Ah! That is not what I said in your speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u105	What we cannot allow is that a set of large, poorly regulated activities have the ability to use the tax system to sit in countries, harming taxpayers in the countries in which they have the activity, and have a delay in the liability of societies in responding to internal difficulties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u106	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme of this debate is the competitiveness of our economy. It is a strategic theme for the development of our country. I would therefore like to welcome the opportunity of this debate and demonstrate that a country which is considered highly innovative by the European Commission can only be recognised by the opposition. from a purely technical point of view, a competitive economy is an economy that has sustained growth over several years, and of course has the same effect on productivity. The comparative advantages are one of the oldest concepts of the economy, and far goes the example of the nineteenth century, by David Ricardo, of the comparison between Portugal and England, in wines and fabrics, which founded this theory of the international economy. However, until very recently, our economy and competitiveness were based on low wages and low skilled labour. Portugal has, however, undergone a major development in business fabric in recent decades. from the analysis of macroeconomic data, we see that they are clear: Portugal, from 2016, gained competitiveness. This would be a good opportunity for the opposition to recognize that. In the back, there was a period of emigration, reduction in income, decrease in gross domestic product, the famous period where it was necessary to « go beyond the troika ».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u108	2011!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u109	Even the talk so desirable on our parliamentary right — fiscal competitiveness — has fallen into the famous « huge tax rise», according to their own opinions. In the speech, they speak of examples such as Irish, but in practice they were responsible for the greatest loss of tax competitiveness in our companies and for the reduction of family income. Competitiveness is to grow, without having to cut wages and subsidies. We don't forget this past and the Portuguese don't forget either. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] But this policy has already been judged electorally, so it is important to talk about the present, the future and the confidence we have in this very future. over decades, the comparative advantages of our economy were based only on wages, but today, the scenario is completely different. Today, we are facing an economy based on innovation and export capacity. Betting in our resources, in new markets and in the designs of digital and climate transition is the challenge. With the governance of the Socialist Party, it was possible to recover income, especially for an increase in the national minimum wage of over 25%. Our economy has also become more competitive, highlighting an increase in exports over 20 %. This allowed exports to represent 43 % of national GDP by 2020. However, Portugal and the world in the first quarter of 2020 are undergoing a serious pandemic crisis. Since early on, it has been necessary to reconcile health responsibility with the economy and we have always been on the side of the solution, of support for businesses and people. We know that many Portuguese have lived difficult days and it would be irresponsible not to recognize it. However, we are not those who, in a week, called for complete openness and, in the following week, for the closure of the economy. We are also not those who criticize the initiatives of others, even with positive opinions from DGS (Direction-General of Health) and then do events with negative opinions. We're consistent. But the latest published data are positive, with export growth of goods close to 83 %, including exports of April 2019 by 7 %, with equally positive data in the area of employment. Yesterday, Portugal was the first country to have the approved Recovery and Resilience Plan: EUR 13, EUR 9 billion in deep-lost grants and EUR 2, EUR 7 million in loans. We welcome this commitment and the future it represents. We must not forget that the Recovery and Resilience Plan will allow us to give a new impetus to the country's recovery, which thus is endowed with more capacity to invest, to reform and to structurally transform the economy, a green and digital economy, increasing its value chains. With a clear transparency model, it foresees an accumulated real growth of 9, 1 % over the next two years, and according to forecast GDP will exceed pre-pandamia levels by next year. This Recovery and Resilience Plan presents, as key vectors, resilience, digital transition and climate transition. We will have a green and digital economy in which combating inequalities and territorial cohesion will be a priority. Direct investment in companies is EUR 4, EUR 9 billion. We know that it is contradictory in relation to what is said, but this is the moment of opposition to congratulate the government on the plan. With political responsibility, it was what should be done, but populism is always the easiest way, when we do not want to assume our responsibilities. As Mário Soares said, «a politician assumes himself ». They then assume your responsibilities, because it makes no sense to criticize public investment on the second, fourth, sixth and Sunday, and to defend more public investment on the remaining days. It makes no sense to say that they are against the state and public investment, but in each region they defend more investment. This is also the time when we must defend genuine competitiveness, particularly within the country. We need to take advantage of opportunities such as digital transition and 5G technology to transform the country and make it more competitive. This is the moment of competitiveness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u110	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD, signed up to request clarifications from Mr Hugo Costa. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hugo Costa, allow me to congratulate you on your intervention and, first of all, to recall the words of the Secretary of State who called for this debate to be based on facts and information. So let's do it! Mr. Carlos Pereira said...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u112	Carlos Pereira? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u113	You'll understand why, sir. As I was saying, Mr. Carlos Pereira brought to the discussion the global ranking of competitiveness and said that Portugal had climbed a place in that ranking of competitiveness after, last year, it had climbed two places. It's false, sir. You know why? Oh, my God! Portugal did not gain a place, Portugal recovered places, because, three years ago, it lost six places! [[PSD applause.]] The country's competitiveness is today worse than it was in 2018, in 2017 and 2016, and much worse than in 2015. Mr. Carlos Pereira, since he invoked this ranking, which became public today and is news, could also have said that in this same ranking—which, as I say, was today made public—, Portugal lost two positions in relation to economic performance and four places in relation to government efficiency. It's not something we can be proud of. But since we speak in international statistics and rankings, I will remind not only Mr. Carlos Pereira, but also Mr. Hugo Costa, that for the third consecutive year in 2020 we descend on the ranking of digital competitiveness and, for the second consecutive year, we descend on the world ranking of development, attraction and retention of talent. I remember, Mr. Hugo Costa, that we are the Summit Web Country, but in 2020 we had a brutal, repeated, brutal fall in financing in technology and it was not because of the pandemic. You know why? Oh, my God! Because in Europe, every record has been struck in this area! We fell five places at the last ranking of the ease of doing business, according to the World Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u115	We grow less than the 15 cohesion countries, that is, those who have per capita incomes and whom we can compare. Last year, Mr Hugo Costa, the GDP per capita in purchasing power parity from Portugal fell again among the Member States of the European Union. We have been, as has already been mentioned, even exceeded by Lithuania and Estonia. So we are, in comparative terms, poorer. Mr Hugo Carvalho of the Socialist Party said that the debate about competitiveness could not be dealt with on tax matters. It is true, it is true, it cannot, there are many other issues and one of them is public investment. Now, public investment seems to be taboo for the Socialist Party and for the Government. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Mr. Secretary of State, over 20 minutes, hardly touched the issue. Mr. Carlos Pereira, come on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u116	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u117	Mr. Hugo Carvalho, come on. Mrs Jamila Madeira, come on. Mr Hugo Costa was able to say a sentence there. [[PS Member Hugo Carvalho's protests.]] Mr President, the questions are simple: perhaps the Socialist Party does not want it to be known that, either in absolute terms or in relative terms, the Government of the Socialist Party continues, in terms of public investment, with degrees of execution below those achieved in the last year of the governance of the PSD and the CDS-PP? [[Protests by PS MP Joana Sá Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u118	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u119	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Hugo Costa, perhaps the Socialist Party, in this regard, does not want to talk about the public statements produced by Dr. Francisco Assisi, known, prestigious and well-known socialist leader, former MEP, former leader of the Socialist Party's bench and currently, as you know, President of the Economic and Social Council? With regard to public investment, Dr. Francisco Assisi said this, and with this I will conclude: "We have seen a very significant contraction of public investment in recent years. In some cases, this reduction was to the point of questioning the maintenance of some equipment itself. We have even reached the minimum limits of what would be acceptable, with negative repercussions, at the level of economic growth. Do not keep on seeking. ” Is this why the Socialist Party does not talk about public investment? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u120	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, when he promises to conclude, he must even conclude. Mr Hugo Costa, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u121	Mr President, I welcome Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira who has taken advantage of all the Socialist Party's interventions and has little question about my intervention. Certainly, my intervention had no data I could question. [[PSD Members' laughs.]] But as far as public investment is concerned, Mr President, as you said, the Social Democratic Party defends it on one day and criticizes it on the other, so much so that the Recovery and Resilience Plan defends too much public investment, as it says on the next day that there is not enough support.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u122	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u123	By the way, Mr. Member, today is Thursday, tomorrow is Friday and it is day to say that public investment is the most. Then, Saturday, of course, is day to say that we have good public investment. I also remember, Mr. Member, that in the time of the Social Democratic Party we had a total backlog of public investment. Repeat : we have had a total retreat from public investment! [[Currently, PSD deputy Jorge Paulo Oliveira displayed a chart.]] And, for the first time, we also had a government that failed to negotiate which part of the public investment was placed in the Community funds. You need to remember the story and the story has a lot to tell you. For example, the year 2012 was the year of the biggest recession...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u124	It was 2011! Troica!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u125	... of the previous 40 years, when there was nothing to justify it in this way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u126	Now, for an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: The challenges posed by the pandemic at social and economic level are great and the response that States can achieve will be decisive for the future. The answer given, but also the way in which it dealt with the economic impacts, from one year to another, is very important. Many failures we have come to point out, but we have not only done so, much of the business fabric and thousands of workers and workers also say so. We said almost a year ago that we needed to pay attention to credit lines and moratoriums, because this could lead to future difficulties. The alerts were correct and how this problem will be solved is not yet fully defined by the government. We said, almost a year ago, that it was necessary to prevent redundancies. It is true that there has been, in this area, the layoff, for example — although it has resulted in wage losses — a step forward, but the months have passed and many companies already fire and practice labour abuse, even though they have received support. We said almost a year ago that the government should define specific measures for the overwhelming majority of companies in our country, which are micro and small enterprises. Unfortunately, over the course of time, many have been left behind, with difficulties in accessing the support that was being announced—and that, in some cases, it took months to be implemented—and they continue, even today, with difficulties, having found no response in the government and fighting for their survival. Then came the announcement of the so-called European bazouca and the government announced a little of everything for everyone. The initial announcement is quite different from what has become the Recovery and Resilience Plan, but there are issues relevant for this debate. In recent times, the narrative on the right, which has scheduled this debate, has been that the PRR is not good, after all, because it has no money for the private sector. It is historic this position on the right, which considers that the State is only good to be a money deposit for certain companies and should have no strategic role in defining the country's economy. It's the payment, but never the order. That's what you've defended.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u129	But we need to understand better what is really the problem of the right in this debate and this problem is even called 'public investment'. This is because when we talk about the factors that work for the competitiveness of the economy, public investment in infrastructure and public services is absolutely essential. Therefore, it is ironic that the narrative that the PSD tries to test, of supposed defense of public investment now, when it is of the parties that historically less contributed to it. The Left Block has consistently and systematically defended the need to increase public investment, particularly in essential services such as health, and I am afraid it has been achieved. The problem is public investment to block the deliberate non-execution of the government, which we have also come to denounce. But there is another ideological hatred that jumps into debates like this and materializes in the aversion of the PSD to labour rights. It continues to insist on the history that the problem is rigidity in labour legislation and that it is necessary to liberalise and simplify. Mrs. Members, what Portuguese and Portuguese well remember is the exact meaning of the flexibility and liberalisation of the Labour Code: more precariousness, reduction of collective bargaining, withdrawal of rights and increase of abuses on workers, who feel good in the skin this instability and erosion of rights, in particular younger generations. Unfortunately, however, the PS has not set the best example in this area. It is not enough to make inflamed statements about the defense of those who work to then join the right when it is to reject proposals that would bring about the exploitation of rights and wages. We cannot want to have an economic model based on precariousness and low wages. This is not the competitiveness of the economy, it is the destruction of the economy, as indeed the years of the troika have well demonstrated and proved. Letting escape from the country knowledge and experience that we need is a mistake. This, yes, is a significant part of the debate on the growth of the country and our economy that the right does not want to do. They remember all the position on the right, aligned with the patronage, on the rise of the national minimum wage. They said at the time, for example, that it would be a disgrace to the economy and proved exactly the opposite. And yes, it is the raising of wages that improves the quality of life of the population and that benefits the economy. But on that the right does not want to know about this debate, nor do you ever want to know about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u130	Didn't you want to? Oh, my God! We're always talking about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u131	It is not new that we do not, in fact, have the same vision as we want for the country and for the economy. We do not want a model based on precariousness and large multinationals who do not pay their taxes here; we want a model based on rights and decent wages, a true bet on science and innovation that enables the export Portuguese industry to beautify. And the right speech on competitiveness is actually a huge slut horse that carries attacks on workers' rights, attacks on wages and privatizations of essential services. Unfortunately, we've seen this story. This is not a vision of the future, it is the promise of the return to a past that the country has already rejected. And therefore they do not have the Left Block to do this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u132	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nelson Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : To be competitive is to make good use of available resources, is to think in the long term, is to be innovative, is to have cost-effectiveness criteria in public policies and is also to create conditions to reduce the costs of business context and bet on attracting talent to the country. We cannot be competitive if we continue to devastate our natural resources, to bridge our coast with tourist enterprises and airports that will be flooded with the rise of the sea, to bet on intensive agriculture where there is a shortage of water—and to have to leave the whole south of the country, namely the Algarve, without water for drinking or for small crops—to have a policy of decarbonisation without cost-effectiveness criteria and not have a concrete policy of adaptation to climate change. We cannot be competitive without a long-term vision and without making good use of the financial resources available. We have introduced a draft law to review the environmental impact assessment regime to prevent the destruction of natural resources, without which we cannot be competitive in the future. Our natural resources belong to the country and to people, not to economic groups. To be competitive, we have introduced a basic climate law that requires cost-effectiveness criteria in decarbonization and adaptation to climate change. The national economy has more to win with the wager in the microproduction of solar energy, which is effective cost, than with subsidies to EDP (Energy of Portugal ) for the production of hydrogen. And we ask: how is it possible that our country is not already investing in adaptation to climate change? According to the World Bank, we should invest some EUR 150 million annually in combating the climate crisis. In 2020 the Environment Fund devoted EUR 1 million to adapting to climate change. The EUR 150 million went to EDP, for a supposed tariff deficit of a Chinese company that earns hundreds of millions of euros per year. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in what world does this make sense? When are we going to make the investments we need to ensure that we won't lack water in the taps tomorrow? When we miss water, as has already happened in many areas of our country, it will be too late. When are we going to stop burying millions of euros in sand, on our beaches, that every year the sea takes, and analyze what infrastructures will have to be relocated due to sea level rise so that we can have resources to do so? When they're submerged, it'll be too late. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when will this government have the capacity to plan and analyse the cost-effectiveness of public policies? In Anglo-Saxon countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom, there is no relevant public policy that is decided without an economic analysis that assesses the multiplier effect on the economy and quantifys the social and environmental impacts. That is why these countries are always at the top of the ranking of the most competitive countries worldwide. In Portugal, we have made decisions on the ‘olometer’. When will we put national interest at the top of our priorities and bring science to the political decision? This is the NAP's agenda for the competitiveness of the country, which also involves a closed fight against corruption that costs us, every minute, €34 000, which annually weighs about 10 % of GDP on our public record. We cannot be a competitive country without making a closed fight for transparency and against corruption. We cannot be a competitive country when we fail with our adaptations to climate change. We cannot be a competitive country without a correct public investment, in the right areas, and worthy, to be a country in the 21st century, which attacks these problems by the head. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must not fail to stress the importance of the State's role in the competitiveness of companies, in particular by reducing the costs of context and by the capacity to attract and retain talent. According to the study by WCC ( World Competitiveness Center ) by 2020, there are identified as major challenges for Portugal to reduce bureaucracy and increase the efficiency of the judicial system. The indicators in which we are most poorly positioned are the competence of government and justice. With regard to the ability to attract and retain talent, we are in 49. the place in a total of 67 countries. The country needs to change policies to improve and make justice more efficient, to have and maintain talent in Portugal, which will obviously not happen with low-wage, precarious policies and with the practice of investing in our young people's education to then push them out of the country and not take advantage of their abilities. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u134	Mr Hugo Carvalho, from the PSD, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members: Two decades lost and a society blocked, without ambition; 26 years with almost 20 socialism, who left for the future the wrong tools, a country that does not grow and a monstrous debt. We gave ourselves much more than what we produced, and yet we were not able to improve. It has reigned the distribution policy, which has sustained more and more debt and is destroying the middle class, which works more and more to sustain the tax burden, and continues to impoverish. All in the name of a supposed fight against inequality, which does not generate equality and will only keep everything at the same level, new generations condemned to minimum wage or to the young people of the 1000 € and a country in the first place of those who ask for money for Europe because they have been in Europe for 30 years and still have not been able to improve. The solution: if we are competitive, we pay the debt; if we are not, we sink into it. So why buy in Portugal, why invest in Portugal, why produce in Portugal? — these are the questions we have to answer. From 2009 to 2013, Portugal passed from a country where it was said to be impossible to export to an exporting country. Who did it? Economic agents, who, for the first time in many years, reacted to a very different set of incentives. And let us be clear: they did for life when the state money was over; it was no longer said that the state bought everything, that large private investments would be leveraged in projects of non-productive state welfareism. After all, it was easy: if the state buys everything, why sell out? Portugal came out of the crisis because it exported, because it created value, wealth, better jobs, even though with the social price that we are still paying for the situation in which we were left by the Socialist Party. If not all debt is bad, it is because Portugal today forms high-quality young people, because we invest in road infrastructure, because we have security, we are located in the center of the Western world, we are in the European Union and all this is important to capture investment. But we are not the only countries like that. We need to differentiate with energy and digital transition. We have been an exporting country of services, of knowledge, and the best way to competitiveness is technology, data, machine learning, which can reformulate sectors such as agriculture, health or education; it is to bring our companies around the world and have companies with size to compete at European and global level. Today, asking someone to install a business in a place without 5G is like asking to install a tie shop in the desert. And what a pity I have — I and the entrepreneurs in this country — to be in one of the three countries of Europe which is still that desert. The digital transformation of the government is a PowerPoint, or even an acetate, a public purchasing program and state spending, without any reproductive or business vision.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u137	Today, new technology solutions based on blockchain consume more energy per year than whole countries. Decentralised renewable energy bet on rational consumption should be clear for a country that wastes money on green hydrogen and in which the public administration's marasm to install energy is such that there is no investor who survives. The energy sector must no longer be a cost of context for Portuguese companies, because it can, for the first time in history, become an opportunity for competitiveness. There is no other way to make this transition other than by private initiative, from all companies rather than those that the State wants to help. The country needs competition, it needs new entrepreneurs who are able to challenge and grow. It can't be a country of the nobility, of those who were already here, of those who already had access, because that's an old country, a tired country, a talented young country suffocated in taxes, without money to invest, imprisoned in bureaucracy and paperwork. Let us let companies and entrepreneurs do, because they will naturally want to modernize and export, so let them. Never came so much money to Portugal in such a short time, and the government now follows the same recipe: get money out here to spend with some and buy the rest from the ones who lent it to him. It will continue to nationalize the losses of the strongest while dropping the weakest, putting wealth on one and taxes on the other. The government that does not resist to look at the PRR as a minced pig for its ministers to finance its openings, public procurement programmes and other things. The PS still thinks that, just because it showed up to surf in high seas, the tide went up because the PS was surfing. PS sells TV to buy PlayStation. You can say out there, and because you're on social networks, that it was the first to have it, but you'll never play with it, because the television has already sold it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u138	That's so fucked up!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u139	There are those who compare with the Greeks, he's more PlayStation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u140	It is unfortunately what governance prefers to do, to shout out to the world of good intentions that « this time it is that it is», but not because it has gained competitiveness so that we can all gain more, to live better, to effectively combat inequalities or to honour, even the mandate that the Portuguese democratically entrusted to us. We're still on time. Portugal can do much more if, like us, others want to do it in fact better. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u141	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Ricardo Leon, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This pandemic crisis has interrupted a cycle of economic growth and job creation never experienced before, but has always been accompanied by rigour in public accounts, making it for the first time in the history of our democracy not a deficit in our public accounts, but rather a budgetary surplus. And if the PSD today told us that it wants to help, then it starts by recognizing that this was the reality that existed before this global pandemic crisis. If they really want to help, then they start by recognizing that they were wrong and that the economic model followed by the PS was the one that was right and that yours was wrong. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]] During this pandemic crisis, in order to combat its effects on our economy, our businesses and institutions, this government immediately created support programmes for our small and medium-sized enterprises, such as simplified layoff, support for independent workers, management partners, micro-enterprises with simplified accounting, the APOIAR Programme,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u143	They had to force you to support! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u144	... the credit lines made available — I know it costs to listen, but listen — the moratoriums on commercial incomes, a set of support in order to minimize the devastating effect of this pandemic crisis. The success that is being verified in the current vaccination process allows us today to look at the future with greater optimism, which many months ago would doubt possible. An optimism also reflected in the recent presentation of the Banco de Portugal Economic Bulletin, June, which reviews the projections for the Portuguese economy up to 2023,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u145	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u146	... and also the recently presented OECD forecast which is in line with what is planned by the government. in this phase of defination and resumption of some normality, our small and medium-sized enterprises, which represent the majority of the national economic fabric, face new challenges and new opportunities. Thus, a set of economic support has been implemented by the Government, within the framework of the defining plan, in particular by gradual reopening and gradual resumption, with the aim of strengthening support for the liquidity of companies. The rules of the new incentive for standardisation and simplified support for micro-enterprises have been published recently. The recapitalisation of companies is one of the priorities of the PRR and also of the PT 2030, directly oriented to companies as a way to boost the development and growth of our micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as their capacity for innovation and internationalisation. They are thus — contrary to what many would expect — good news, particularly for micro and small businesses, so decisive to the reality of the global context of our economic fabric. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u147	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Aragon has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u148	Mr President, allow me to begin my speech by saying that Mr Cristovão Norte, from the PSD, believes that the democratic choice of Portuguese is a symptom of their dormancy, which shows, in fact, the comatious state in which the opposition lies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on competitiveness is much more user-friendly, knowing that in recent years we have made a clear commitment to people's qualifications and to our economy's capacity for innovation. Don't stop being curious that many of you. Members like to talk about the best-prepared generation ever, without ever stopping to think that public policies have prepared this generation. It is in fact more user-friendly, knowing that today we have more students in higher education and, for the first time, 50 % of 20-year-olds attending this level of education.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u150	It is more facilitating, knowing that today we have more public investment and that the Foundation for Science and Technology has reached maximum levels of investment. It is much easier, knowing that public investment has boosted private investment, which has reached maximum levels. It is much more user-friendly, knowing of the reinforcement in the transformation that we operate in the professional technical courses and its impact on the industry. It is much more facilitating, knowing the appreciation and the reinforcement we have made in the political institutes, knowing the bet on the transfer of knowledge and interface centers, knowing the bet on the integration of knowledge and the creation of collaborative laboratories.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u151	Let's see when there's elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u152	These options, in fact, facilitate competitiveness. Mr Afonso Oliveira, allow me to quote as addressed to this plenary: « Have you done anything for this? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The answer is a round « no », and the PSD may not have understood it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u154	That's very creative! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u155	Continue the path: Continue the effort to increase the number of students in higher education ( provided for in the RRP), continue the bet on the qualification of human resources ( provided for in the RRP), continue the strengthening of public investment in Innovation and Development Research (IDI) ( provided for in the RRP),...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u157	... continue to strengthen knowledge transfer ( provided for in the RPP ), continue to promote innovative investment in companies ( provided for in the RPP ). Mr President, there are options that are possible today because there have been previous public policies that now serve them as a basis, not because of the urgency of this debate, but because of the consistency of these policies. That is indeed the main difference. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u158	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the day we talk about our economy and its competitiveness, we can only smile, but laugh, when we hear the Socialist Party talk about digitization. To speak of digitization in a country that did not have computers to give to its students, if not to laugh it would certainly be a comedy to English, located right here in the heart of the European Union. But what Mr Hugo Costa, as well as the Socialist Party, did not say was that Portugal had, in the first quarter of this year, the deepest fall in the economy of the euro zone. That is what Antonio Costa and the Secretary of State should be saying today! [[Protests of PS Members.]] What was not said in this debate, and that should have been said, was that our economy was the second largest fall of the OECD in the first quarter, while a socialist party, inert and asleep, continues to want to rule Portugal. That is what Mr Hugo Costa should have come here today and apologize to the Portuguese for the economic disaster they have led us to in recent months. On the day that we know that the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon will once again close, with no further knowledge of how many restaurants, shopping spaces and establishments to be closed by force of a disastrous management of the pandemic, the Socialist Party comes to say that it is all right, that it was the merit of the economic genius that brought us here and that we should all know this — except those who are out there, to suffer, every day that passes, with this crisis! Open... Mr Hugo Costa referred to 2012. If it wasn't for laughter, it was certainly a socialist joke. That was the year in which a engineer left us with the greatest economic and financial crisis on this land. And now a Socialist Member says that 2012 was the year of all the mistakes on the right in Portugal, forgetting that, if there were mistakes that were made, it was because a party, an engineer, a leader and a government left us with the greatest economic crisis of our time! Mrs. Members, today, 85 % of business credit is business credit from the bank, i.e. 85 % is debt. And the solution proposed to us by the Minister of Finance was more indebted to companies. Portugal today has a level of corporate debt that no other State of the European Union has to present. This is the socialist miracle we have to give: debt, impoverishment, bankruptcy and disappearance! To hear the extreme left talk about emigration and to say « how can the right have left this country lose talents? Oh, my God! » when, in 2020, with the Budget approved by the Communist Party and the Block of Left, Portugal never had so many migrants in the United Kingdom! Shame! [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] Shame of Country and shame of left and extreme left, which allow our young people to continue emigration and the country to lose talent, day after day. But you come here to knock your hand on your chest and talk about the talent and those we've lost before. [[Protests of BE Members.]] Two thirds of our companies have not even applied for public funds! We have the worst public support system in Europe. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is what Mr Hugo Costa did not say either — but he could have said — because he certainly forgot. [[Protests from PS Hugo Costa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u160	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u161	I will finish, Mr. President. Today I will quote Mário Soares, who one day said this: « Fear everyone has, but there are some who beat him and others who let themselves be overcome». What I expect from the right, in Portugal, after the disaster of socialist governance, is that I have the courage and ability to present to the Portuguese an alternative of government without fear, like Mário Soares, if it were right, one day would have allowed! [[PS protests.]] That's what I'd like to see, and that's what I hope the right one can ever do in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u162	Take it you've had lunch! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u163	For an intervention, Mr José Rui Cruz, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: With the end of the COVID-19 pandemic, there is a feeling that we need to learn the lessons of the past and prepare ourselves for the near future. Competitiveness is not just about injecting more money into companies. With the PRR, it will be possible to inject money, attract people, talent and innovation to the territories, according to their needs and those of their populations. It is therefore desirable that the funds be distributed with an approach to regional specificities. The privileged actors for the implementation of this strategy are certainly the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees), but also the inter-municipal communities, the municipalities, through these, and undoubtedly also the companies, the social sector, universities and the polytechnics. However, the interior of the country has given evidence of a great capacity for resilience and regeneration by the way it has faced natural disasters that, since the fires to the weather and drought, have compromised much of its economy related to agriculture and forest. Therefore, these territories have a strong potential for innovation, but they need dedicated investment. Otherwise, let us see: how to attract a state-of-the-art technology company to settle in the territory of the country, taking advantage of economic and fiscal incentives, if we do not provide it with close and quality public services, good road accessibility, good infrastructures and digital communications infrastructures that allow these companies to set up tables? And why should the interior territories not be able to make all this available to the people who live there and to those who want to look at these regions? The paradigm of development was changed with this pandemic, as is seen by all. The competitiveness we so desire will only happen where people are. And people will be where they feel safe and happy. Thus they will be more productive, more competitive and will contribute in a balanced way to the recovery and growth of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u165	For an intervention, Mr André Pinotes Batista, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u166	Mr President, at the end of a very long debate, we can draw a conclusion, which is not good and is not new, but it is still important: for the right, competitiveness remains, as, indeed, low incomes have always been, prejudice to the national minimum wage, precariousness, degradation of working conditions of our workers. On the most qualified generation, the one who sent us to emigrate, we had, yes, a novelty, a new passion, which does not correspond to anything at all. In fact, it was well-figured in the very strict speech that Mr Far-Right made, where he proclaimed a lot, but said absolutely nothing about competitiveness, except his passion for companies. That's what we know. In fact, the only thing we can say to you in favour is that at least you take what the rest of the right has no courage to take. Mr President, being in deep disagreement with you and with the absolute priority given to businesses and not to workers or to the dignity of Portuguese people, I still recognize that you take on what others do not have the courage to take. There is one issue that needs to be repeated at the end of this debate and that is the most important one for us. Mr. Secretary of State had the opportunity to say how we can create value in an intelligent way, create value in a human way too, because we have heard here the Liberal Initiative speak of a competitive society, but we know that we must, above all, have a harmonious society. It's a big difference, Mr. Deputies, because competitiveness needs to be...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u167	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u168	I conclude, Mr President, with this note: the PRR, as my comrade Carlos Pereira has already had the opportunity to say here, is a great opportunity we have to be able to get out of this crisis, so that we can get out of this global difficulty that the pandemic brings us, with new opportunities, with new challenges and with new assurances that Portugal will return where it was before the pandemic, in growth, in convergence, and even above the growth of the European Union. It is hard for you to hear, but the truth is, before the pandemic, and contrary to what happened in the time of your government, Portugal was making progress. And, most likely, with what we are doing, with what we are preparing, Portugal will continue to progress. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u169	In addition to the PSD, which will close this debate, I wonder if any parliamentary group intends to use the time it still has.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u170	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u171	Please, Mr. Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u172	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u173	Mr President, do you intend to use the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u174	For an intervention, Mr President, using the time available to the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u175	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u176	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, what I wanted to say to you is that we all certainly have the utmost respect for your person and for your role as Secretary of State, but in a debate in which we are dealing with national competitiveness—maybe the most vital issues for the future of the country—we believe that it was justified, that it was a good idea for the Government to look at him, for the Portuguese and for the country with other respect and that instead of sitting there, Mr Secretary of State, which, for us, is very gratifying, was Mr Minister of Economy. Mr Secretary of State, the feeling that, after all this, after this debate, after listening to the Socialist Party, is that we are here 'cold iron mesh'. Sorry, but you don't mind, you don't learn. You don't have a bit of lucidity, [[PS Members' laughs.]] ... an act of political lucidity, an act of recognition. The gentlemen crystallized and stopped in 2015, live in the world of efabulation, and this shocks people out there. You take a place in competitiveness and make a feast here, but you lose five places and you have no shame! This is the debate! And they came here, permanently in the fantasy world, to demonstrate that they live in another galaxy, always talking about it, from 2011 and 2015. It's over! That's past, you've been judged! Look forward, because that's what worries you! [[Protests from PS André Pinotes Batista.]] The gentlemen have stopped behind, because they don't know what they're going to do in the future. We're in 2021, and you know what the Portuguese, out there, find out about the government and the state of the country? It is that they pay, as we all pay, 1, 5 € for a litre of fuel and only 90 cents is that they correspond to fuel, the rest are taxes and taxes. [[PSD applause.]] You know what the Portuguese out there think? They think that in the water account, in 25 €, only 10 € corresponds to the cost of the water!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u177	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u178	And, in electricity, in 70 cents, only 50 cents is that they correspond to the cost of electricity. We were actually hoping that, with the PRR, everything would be resolved, but, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the news is this: Portugal is the slowest to run RPP funds. [[PS protests.]] In 2021, we are the worst; in 2022, we will be the worst; and only in 2023 will you try to fix your hand. [[PS protests.]] But now, and to conclude, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u179	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude. The closure PSD intervention will still be done...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u180	Finally, Mr President, the European Union says that with the PRR, our country will grow between 1, 5 % and 2, 4 %. It is perhaps the worst growth in Europe. Greece expects growth between 7 % and 18 %. Look at this and, a few years from now, see if this is a government that prides you or if it is a government that will shame the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u181	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that the parliamentary groups that still have time do not want to use it, so we will proceed to the conclusion of the debate. For the PSD, you have the floor of Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Today, the PSD Parliamentary Group brought the debate to competitiveness, because it is urgent and essential that the bet bet be on competitiveness, because it is urgent and essential to regain the economy and make Portugal a more competitive country, because it is urgent and essential to make Portugal one of the most competitive countries in the euro area, because competitiveness is a absolutely decisive factor for economic growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u184	Mrs. Members, without competitiveness there is no economic growth and without economic growth we cannot improve the lives of families, workers and businesses. Without public policies based on these concerns all these dimensions of life are compromised. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate it is important to leave some notes and the first to regret it. I am sorry that the Government and the Socialist Party, which supports the government, feel that everything is all right. You think it's all right, putting your head in the sand, it's the first step for nothing to change. And nothing's changed, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not to take care of our economy, not to look after people, not to take care of families, not to take care of workers and not to take care of businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u186	Not to acknowledge that we have done little, very little, is the first step to continue to err and to continue to do little, very little, especially when the facts and reality show us, as it is clear here today, that there is another way to go. And the government cannot shield itself from the pandemic, which we know has caused a social and economic crisis, because the fact is that there were problems before the pandemic, and the government must look at these problems. In fact, as I said, before the pandemic we faced a number of problems. There were some situations that worsened with the pandemic, but others showed only the problems that already existed. And that is what everyone, but all, without exception, must focus our efforts: to look at the problems of the country, to admit that they exist and are not today and that, therefore, they need reforms, they need structural proposals to make Portugal more competitive, more attractive, with more just, more equitable policies and that they are able to respond to our economy, social concerns and the fight against inequalities. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the bottlenecks of the economy's competitiveness have been well evidenced and must be combated today. We must combat the high costs of context, the result of excessive bureaucracy. We must combat the complexity of the tax system, which is too high for both companies and families. We must combat a slow system of justice, which also leads to economic difficulties. We must combat the lack of qualification of human capital, particularly in training, which is inadequate and properly articulated between the supply and the needs of companies. We must combat the low public and private investment that has occurred in recent years, but unfortunately we do not see any change in this lack of investment with government measures, particularly those presented in the Recovery and Resilience Plan. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must combat legislative instability, particularly in labour law, which, contrary to what some people want to believe, does not promote the protection of workers, rather promotes uncertainty and instability. In fact, it is important to remember what the former Minister of Finance said very recently, Mr Mário Centeno — now Governor of Banco de Portugal — when he said that he has a great deal of concern about legislative stability at work. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, these are some of the many examples of what needs to be fought. And, as the PSD has already said here this afternoon, we need to have courage and make structural reforms. Business capitalisation mechanisms need to be created; the export rate needs to be increased; a more competitive, simpler, more stable tax system is needed, with less costs for both families and businesses; and fiscal obligations and declarations need to be simplified and reduced; more efficient and effective justice is needed; skills and training of human capital needs to be improved. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as I began, I regret that, after this debate, the lack of will on the part of the Government and the Socialist Party has become even more evident to do what needs to be done. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u187	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is concluded. We move on to the second item of our agenda, which is from the debate of the General Account of the State of 2019. This debate is scheduled to begin with the intervention of the Government. To that end, Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget, Cláudia Joaquim.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are presenting and discussing the General Account of the State of 2019, the year in which the first budgetary surplus of the history of Portuguese democracy was recorded. It was the culmination of a sustained trajectory, since 2016, of consolidation of public accounts, alongside the increase in income and the replacement of public support and social benefits. It was also demonstrated that it is possible to strengthen social protection, increase investment, improve the quality of public services and simultaneously balance public accounts. Today we are at a very different moment and context from those who have made these results possible, but we are sure that the discussion of the 2019 State General Account is very timely and timely, because its budgetary results have been and have been decisive in the last year and a half. It is that a country with balanced public accounts is a more resilient country, with more ability to cope with crises like the one we have been living since March 2020, with the pandemic crisis caused by COVID-19. Before the economic crisis caused by the pandemic, the Portuguese economy had grown 27 consecutive quarters and had an unprecedented macroeconomic balance: sound public finances, with the first budgetary surplus of our democracy, low unemployment and balanced external accounts. The General Account of the State of 2019 shows us - a consistent and sustained evolution, which began in 2016 and consolidated in 2019 : we were able to leave the excessive deficit procedure; we met all budgetary targets during this period, with a positive evolution at the level of implementation; we achieved sustained growth of the economy and the reduction of unemployment to minimums since 2003; the debt weight, as a percentage of GDP, fell from 132 % in 2016 to 117 % in 2019 with a significant reduction of 15 percentage points. But it is not too much to point out that these budgetary results were not obtained at the cost of Portuguese income. They were accompanied by measures to recover and strengthen income, increase employment, greater rights and better social protection. The bet on improving income, whether by the gradual increase in the minimum wage, the defrosting of careers or the increase in pensions and the strengthening of social benefits, has greatly contributed to the results we are discussing today. at the same time, these results were accompanied by a 1-percentage reduction in GDP taxes over the period 2015 to 2020, with 24, 3 % of GDP in 2020, when in 2015 it was 25, 3 %. We demonstrated that it was possible to change the paradigm of the years before 2016. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to having recorded in 2019 the first positive budget balance on the public administrations account in democracy, it is also important to highlight the increase in the gross fixed capital formation amount of around EUR 224 million compared to the previous year for a GDP weight of 1, 9 %. As I said, fiscal consolidation has enabled the reduction of the public debt ratio as a percentage of GDP to be followed, thereby increasing market confidence and contributing to national financial stability. As in previous years, the Government has reduced the total late payments in the central administration significantly, with a fall of 39 % in 2019 compared to 2018, to the lowest value in five years of 313 million euros and a decrease of 34 % in 2020 to 208 million euros. The great effort to receive a large part of the Court of Auditors'recommendations should also be highlighted in order to improve the quality of information related to public finances. of the recommendations made in 2017, 64 % were accepted, of which about 70 % correspond to the reliability of the financial, financial, assets and control management systems. Finally, I highlight the ongoing reforms with regard to public finances, with the implementation of the SNC-AP ( System of Accounting Standardization for Public Administrations ) — in 2019, around 1200 entities took account of this regime, already exceeded in 2020 — the implementation of the Budget Framework Act, with an impact on the State budget for 2021, in the State Budget Report and in the Maps of the Law and Information Maps, with more detailed information or new information, such as the framework for invariant policies or the framework for structured multi-annual investments. The implementation of the Budget Framework Act is also a priority. I welcome the integration of public financial management reform, a very relevant modernisation and simplification measure in the PRR, with an investment of EUR 206 million for the coming years, accompanied by a strengthening of the coordination and governance model of the United Nations ( Implementation Unit of the Budget Framework Act ). But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is for all I have said and because we are living on a global scale a single moment of unequal demand in the face of other crisis periods, with very significant impacts on public accounts, which it is very important to stress that the starting point of Portugal, when the pandemic began, was fundamental to the support granted in 2020 and 2021. We have taken a positive public account situation and will continue to make all the difference in the capacity to respond to the consequences of the pandemic, in the adoption of measures to support employment and the incomes of Portuguese in a responsible and sustained way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u189	Mr Nuno Sá of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u190	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: In 2019 economic activity and world trade slowed to 2, 9 % and 0, 9 % respectively. In Europe, in the euro area economy, GDP slowed to 1, 2 % and despite this unfavourable external context in Portugal, GDP increased in real terms by 2, 2 %. It is noted that the Portuguese economy continued to grow above the euro area for the fourth consecutive year in 2019. The investment had a very dynamic behavior within domestic demand and showed a growth of 6, 3 %. Investment and exports did not make the expected contribution due to the already mentioned international context, but this was offset by consumption. The final consumption of families increased by 2, 2 %, exports increased by 3, 7 %, unemployment increased by 6 %. It is the lowest unemployment rate since 2003! Employment grew 0, 8 % and the active population grew 0, 4 %. We have achieved the growth of tax revenue by 3 %, resulting only from improved economic activity and employment, i.e. without tax increases. IRS grew by 2 % and spill by 14, 9 %. The revenue from social contributions showed an increase of 6, 8 %, mainly determined by contributions to social security, with an increase of 8, 6 %. But this development is the result of favourable developments in the labour market and not an increase in taxes. In fact, the tax burden only decreases — that is a fact. If social security contributions were expelled, the tax burden represented 25, 3 % of GDP in 2015 and fell to 24, 7 % in 2019 and 24, 3 % in 2020. As regards public debt, it was 117, 7 % of GDP and was below the previous financial years in terms of percentage. It is very important to see that debt service has been declining significantly over the last few years. Only between 2016 and 2019, Portugal saved 1860 billion euros in interest. In 2019, the financing capacity of the Portuguese economy remained positive for the eighth consecutive year. In 2019, the budgetary balance of public administrations exceeded 0, 2 % of GDP. We had the first budgetary surplus in the history of Portuguese democracy, culminating in a consolidation of public accounts, in parallel with the growth of the economy. For budgetary consolidation we do not need austerity, economic recession, cuts in wages and pensions. In 2019, the governance of the Socialist Party proved that it is possible to balance public finances with the growth of the economy, the increase in employment and income of Portuguese. This was in very general terms the performance demonstrated by the General State Account in 2019. I think we can only draw one conclusion: it was an excellent performance. in a government assessment exercise, it is appropriate to say that the record of the budget surplus, the reduction of the cost of debt service, the increase in employment and the unemployment to be reduced to 2003 levels are numbers and accounts that speak for you. In this regard, he also spoke the President of the Court of Auditors, stating that « the health crisis that arose to us and that had very serious economic and financial impacts came to prove that public finances were and are decisive in such situations». The Portuguese, families and companies today understand this statement very well and know why it served the budget surplus of 2019 and the difference it made in their lives. From then on, it allowed all the necessary resources to be mobilized in the fight against the health, economic and social crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Court of Auditors further tells us that this General Account of the State of 2019 is reliable and transparent, which makes a very positive contribution to democratic scrutiny and confidence in the government. Thus, the State accounts demonstrate the positive results and the success of the policies and governance of the Socialist Party. Portugal has achieved an unprecedented budget surplus with economic growth, a decrease in unemployment and an increase in wages and pensions. It is this path of economic growth, job quality, development of all social indices, with budgetary consolidation, which we must continue for the benefit of Portuguese and Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u191	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this discussion of the General State Account, we will continue to hear the PS speak a thousand times of the first surplus of the democratic era, but we will not hear the PS explain how it came there. First, he got there spending less than he said he would spend, especially through overbudgeting of public investment or, to be clearer, through the promise of investments he never made. The logic is pure propaganda: advertisements give good press, to no-one's executions binds. Yeah, we called! Then he came there charging many more taxes than he anticipated, plus 1000 million to be exact, reaching another sad record of tax burden, however even more sadly beaten in 2020. Mr Nuno Sá, wanting to exclude social security contributions from the tax burden is a manoeuvre, as you well know, unless you tell me that contributions are not mandatory. Looks like no one's connected to the tax burden anymore, but we're calling! Finally, he came there with an opacity on the budget implementation which all experts were afraid of. The best example of this is the classification of so-called « main measures ». In a discretionary way, the Ministry of Finance classifies the same measures as the main measures in one year, as not the main measures in the other, or even in the same year. For example, in this General State Account, six measures which were not considered to be the main ones appear in detail and no other ten which were considered to be the main ones. A budget cannot be an instrument of propaganda, not only because of the political dishonesty that it means, but especially because it prevents any effective scrutiny. As far as it depends upon us, there will always be less propaganda and more scrutiny!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u193	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nelson Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr.a and Mr. State Secretaries : The General Account of the State of 2019 clearly shows that the original sins of the governance of the PS, with Costa, Centeno and Lion in command, remained in spite of repeated warnings and recommendations of the Court of Auditors. Today, I will speak only of three of these sins. Let's start with the tax billboards and the perverse subsidies to the big polluters. According to the General State Account, only under the oil products tax, these bills cost the public record of around EUR 523 million in 2019. That is, when the UN and the OECD tell us that these perverse subsidies are environmentally harmful, they have high costs, they cause distortions, recommending that we put an end to them, the government makes the way in the opposite direction and increases them by 101 million euros, i.e. by 23, 8%. When does a budget strategy that, instead of taxing wages, effectively tax carbon? Then we also have road PPPs (public-private partnerships). The General State Account shows us that in 20 years the State will pay the equivalent of three times the value of the structures associated with it, without the government caring. But worse than the government passing this blank check, it is to continue to disregard the right to information of citizens, since, as the Court of Auditors tells us, it does not report enough information so that compliance with the legal obligation of permanent evaluation of PPPs, by public partners, can be verified, and does not continue to disclose the impacts on national accounts of charges incurred and to support PPPs. It is serious that the Government should be guided by opacity and continue, year after year, not to give data to contextualize and to explain the disproportion between the net charges of PPPs, paid by public partners, and the investment made by private partners. It continues to fail to provide reliable and complete information on current and capital revenue and expenditure from partners, public and private, and continues to fail to make an adequate assessment of long-term budgetary risks. For the sake of good administration of public money, it is urgent that the government not only ensure more transparency but also that it emerges from its teimosia and, once and for all, for the benefit of the public interest, it should renegotiate road PPPs. Finally, it is also important to talk about the application of the law of late commitments in the health sector, a real garrote that called into question the proper functioning of the services, translating into lack of resources, equipment, increase of the average waiting times, finally affecting all the service and access to health, especially with the following year, with the pandemic we live. How could we have had a better response with this level of late payments? The Court of Auditors was even to the point of speaking on a systemic issue without urgent resolution by the legislator. The blind limits of this law have, unfortunately, forced him to refuse the visa to purchase medicines, to purchase goods and services, to feed, to treat clothing, to maintain contracts, to carry out complementary means of diagnosis and investments in health units. I will now finish, Mr President. In 2019, late payments amounted to EUR 313 million and, once again, the Court of Auditors recommended that the Ministry of Finance, in view of the continuing and high late payments of hospitals, ensure adequate budgeting in order to promote the accountability of decision makers and avoid late payments in the field of health. We know that in the meantime the government has improved this indicator, but not before the effects of these late payments caused a move in the responses to COVID-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u195	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u196	How many more budgets will we have to wait for these delays to stop happening? For when is an exceptional regime for SNS (National Health Service) under the law of Commitments and Late Payments? The NAP here will, as always, be with proposals to abolish them, but it is necessary for the PS and its government to demonstrate the necessary openness to achieve it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u197	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Secretary of State of the Budget: In 2019 the first budgetary surplus of Portuguese democracy was reached. It's a fact, it's a relevant fact. However, it should be noted that this result was only possible because, to a large extent, the government did not do what it said it was going to do and what it left to do cost families and businesses. This result was essentially obtained at the cost of two factors: a higher revenue than the projected revenue, especially at the level of tax and tax revenue, and a lower expenditure than the projected one, much due to the underimplementation of public investment. In 2019, the tax and contribution revenue increased by EUR 1803 million compared to 2018. The Government will say that this increase is the result of favourable developments in economic activity and employment. It is a fact, we do not dispute it, but it is also a fact that the tax burden, which the government had assured would come down, has increased 0, 1 percentage point vis-à-vis 2018, resulting in a new maximum of 34, 7 % of GDP. Let us say a new historical maxim of democracy, and now of the dictatorship, if we want to go back in time. It is also a fact, Mr Secretary of State, that this indicator, whether it likes it or not, is unequivocal. There is no doubt of interpretation and, even in view of its limitations, which we know exist, there will be some value, and indeed, because the increase in the tax burden, even in the context of economic growth, means that the growth in tax and contribution revenue was, in terms of GDP, greater than economic growth, resulting in at least in the maintenance of high pressure on families and businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u200	I recall that in 2019 only at the end of the first 160 days is that Portuguese revenues covered taxes due to the State. This is only from June 15th that, in a theoretical sense, of course, the day of the tax release took place, the day of the year on which the Portuguese freed themselves from their tax burden. And since we talked about economic growth, it was important to note that we do not see how we can celebrate a GDP growth of 2, 2 % knowing that all — I repeat, all — the 15 cohesion countries, that is, those who have per capita incomes below the European average and with which we can compare, have grown more than we do. This has a meaning: it means that we are impoverishing in comparative terms. A second factor that allowed the budgetary surplus to be obtained was, as I said, a lower expenditure than planned, much because of the pronounced underimplementation of public investment. In 2019, public investment remained 44, 4 % below the budget. By investing, about EUR 1 billion remained. Therefore, it was not yet in 2019 that the Government was able to overcome either in absolute terms or in relative terms the public investment made in 2015, i.e. in the last year of the governance of the PSD / CDS-PP. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the budget surplus has been achieved to a large extent at the expense of the deterioration of the quality of public services. On the other hand, by giving the State the highest tax revenue ever — I repeat, yes, the greatest tax revenue ever — the Portuguese received at least public services. The price we paid to achieve a budget surplus, as mentioned by the President of the Social Economic Council, Dr. Francisco Assisi, was : « A very significant contraction of public investment over the last few years. In some cases, this reduction was to the point of questioning the maintenance of some equipment itself. We have even reached the minimum limits of what would be acceptable, with negative economic growth consequences'. We're all clear. And no, it's not worth arguing with the past. The past conditions the future, but what may have happened in 2015, at the end of 4 years, at the end of a full legislature, cannot justify the low public investment verified in 2019, repeatedly promised in 2016, 2017 and 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Secretary of State, the year 2019 is marked by the first budgetary surplus, but at the cost of the maximum collection of taxes and contributions, of public services at least, at the low rate of execution of public investment and at the low rate of implementation of Community funds, and all this has, and has, its price and Portuguese are paying it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u203	Mr Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I do not think that one thing must be defended when you are in the government and another when you are in the opposition, nor do I think that you want to be in the government, whether you are in the opposition, if you have to defend one thing and do another. If, in the past, I have been in favour of balanced public accounts, I am continuing, at present, to be in favour of balanced public accounts and to think that, in times of economic expansion, the existence of a surplus prepares the country for times of crisis, precisely in order to be able to act in times of crisis. Therefore, my disagreement with the General State Account is not the existence of surpluses, quite the contrary, but it is the way in which they arrived. The idea you're trying to pass is that you got there differently from that as you got there. In fact, we arrived at the surplus because the government systematically charges more taxes than what it says it collects and executes much less expense than what it announces. That's how we got there. Therefore, I would like to make it clear that, contrary to what the Secretary of State says, budgetary consolidation did not start in 2016. When much, in 2016, fiscal consolidation began to be slower and, above all, began to be unsustainable. Secondly, I would also like to clarify that public investment, contrary to what you say, has not increased. In other words, the public investment in 2016 was taken to such minimums, it was contracted in such a way — indeed, here with the support and with the approval of the Left Block and the PCP, which are always very forgotten in relation to this matter, it was led to such a degree of impoverishment and misery that over the next four years has always increased a little, allowing you to say, with a very happy air: « Public investment has increased! Do not keep on seeking. ” That's not true! It increased in relation to the previous year—the Secretary of State said — EUR 224 million, but it forgot to say that there was EUR 900 million below what the government itself had announced. This part is always to be said. According to the Economic and Social Council, if we consider investment as a whole, we find that the same is insufficient to cope with the necessary replacement of fixed capital, thus contributing to a deterioration of the quality of public services. This, yes, was the secret to budgetary consolidation: it is basically to come here to announce great investments in large places and then, simply not to do them. In fact, I would also draw attention to the fact that the Court of Auditors refers to both the famous captivations, which continue to be a reality, and to all other creative ways of preventing expenditure and, more than preventing expenditure, to disguise discretionary choices by the Government to guarantee votes here in Parliament, which then do not correspond to the actual choices. For example, the strengthening of appropriations under the provisional appropriation, which the Court of Auditors says is for unexpected expenditure, has been consolidated as a sort of bag from which the State already knows more or less what will have to happen but does not want to announce here and then compensates for investments, which are voted and negotiated here but never get out of the paper. What I think would be very important in these discussions of the General State Account — and this is also a warning that has been made by several entities — is that we could compare with policies that had appropriations for what was to be done and what was done. This is something that is not tradition and which, unfortunately, continues to fail to do in the General State Account.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u205	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u206	Mr. President, Mrs. State Secretary, Mrs. Members: The account presented to us today is marked by a fact that is indelible, which is the fact that most of what has been budgeted is actually not executed. We are talking about a sum of almost 50 % of values that have not been implemented in terms of investment and in terms of financial application. Thus, it is easy to make projections with consolidation numbers without later realising them. It is important to stress that we are talking about a year in which, with regard to the same Account, the Minister had said in the previous year that it would not be tax burden, but we again have an increase in tax burden. And this same year, in June, we had a historic maximum of both gasoline and gas oil, which means that the government has failed its promise that it would not raise taxes and apply no more tax burden. In June 2019, we had a new ceiling on this subject, but it was also in 2019 that for the first time Portugal was registered as the fourth country of the European Union with the light and the most expensive gas due to the incidence of the tax burden. With all this it was not difficult to have a surplus and, with all this, it was not difficult to have balanced fiscal and budgetary accounts to present. The big question here, and I shall conclude, Mr President, is that the fruit of this year and the consolidation that is presented to us this year has two handles: one is the subordination and the non-execution and another is the fact that the tax burden is increasing encapsulated, contrary to what Mr. Minister for Finance said.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u207	Mr Duarte Alves, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Secretary of State : The discussion on the General Account of the State of 2019 is limited in its political current status by the fact that we will discuss more than one and a half years after the execution that is analyzed. The Budget for 2019 made positive steps, which resulted from the CFP initiative: the expansion of the freeness of school textbooks; the extraordinary increase in reforms and family allowances; the reduction of the value of propines and the increase in the addition of housing in scholarships; the reduction of VAT in culture; the elimination of the obligation to deliver the CFP (special payment on behalf) for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, among other measures. But there is one aspect that is still present when we discuss budgetary implementation: it is precisely the low level of implementation of public investment, in fact, marked by the opinions of the ESC and the Court of Auditors. Public investment continues to be the adjustment variable used by the government to meet its only obsession: the accelerated reduction of the deficit, the obtaining of the desired surplus, which was achieved at the expense of a very low public investment. And public investment is needed for two reasons. Firstly, because it contributes to the drive of private investment, essential when we continue to invest below fixed capital consumption, that is, we have a productive device that continues to obsolete due to lack of investment. Secondly, due to the lack of public investment for services as important as public school, SNS, transport or housing. It is obvious that no one knew that there was a pandemic and economic crisis like the one we are experiencing, but it is also true that the CFP has always warned about the major weaknesses facing the country, being fully exposed to situations that do not control, these weaknesses that require particular attention to public investment, with a much more structural effect on the economy than the government's obsession with the deficit, which continued to determine the government's policy and budgetary implementation in 2019. We would have other conditions to deal with the epidemic if more investment had been made in hospitals, health centers, diagnostics, intensive care. We would have other conditions to defend the economy if national production had not always been in the background. But at the same time as the government opted for a restrictive budgetary policy with regard to public investment, there are sump expenditure that has not ceased to be made: charges with public debt, charges with the bank, with the delivery of more than EUR 1149 million to the New Bank and more than EUR 1266 million to the BPN vehicles, in a financial effort representing 1, 15 % of GDP— not the State budget, but GDP— in 2019 ; charges with tax benefits, which are not properly justified, and the Court of Auditors gives the example of the tax expenditure with the non-resident regime, which in 2019 increased by 13 %, amounting to EUR 620 million, becoming the most significant tax benefit, excluding VAT, or even the public-private partnerships (PP ), which weighed more than EUR 1500 million in 2019. And here the Court of Auditors' report clearly states that «there remains a gap between the net charges of PPPs paid by public partners and the investment made by private partners ». The difference is 1 to 10 between public investments and private investments and this difference is not justified in the General State Account. What is clear is that the implementation of the Budget has privileged the delivery of millions to the large economic groups, whether in the bank or in the PPPs, and that there was no savings there. In public investment, what we see is that it is always sacrificed in the name of the obsession for the accelerated reduction of the deficit. We talked about 2019 but we could talk about 2021. Mr Secretary of State, it is essential to comply with the measures adopted in the Budget so that the budgetary procedure does not lose credibility and reason for being. Therefore, the Government is required to remove the blockades that the Ministry of Finance continues to exercise on important investments and contracts of professionals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u209	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : We would like to leave three notes on the General Account of the State which in some way reflect repeated criticisms that we have made to this governance, as well as repeated criticisms by the Court of Auditors and all the entities that have examined the General Account of the State. The first note has to do with the analysis of tax benefits, from the point of view, also mentioned, that the regime of unusual residents has become the largest tax benefit in Portugal. It is curious that the largest tax benefit in Portugal, except VAT, does not benefit residents in Portugal who pay their taxes here and work, ultimately benefiting non-standard residents, in fact, even with international reputational damage to the country. Above all, it is a huge injustice for all pensioners, particularly with low pensions, who pay their taxes here and see non-standard residents using the guaranteed tax voucher, which the Government insists, stubbornly, to maintain. This is one of the criticisms and findings that is left by the Court of Auditors and by the analysis to the General State Account. The second note has to do with the transparency of these tax benefits. of the 383 tax benefits in force, only 179 are quantified and therefore there is an important part of the tax expenditure that continues to be quantified or identified, and this is a problem of transparency that is to be resolved, as there are measures that are also to be implemented, including the inventory of the heritage. They say the Court of Auditors and the General Account of the State that the real estate of the State are not inventoryed, that the measures established for the programme in the period 2009 to 2012 have not been complied with and therefore the State has no conditions to know what its real estate is, because this inventory is not made, with repeated delays in the process. However, the most important point of the political discussion on the General State Account is the one that has been made and that concerns the brilliantness, the great news of 2019, the surplus budget and how it was achieved. It was achieved, firstly, with a lack of transparency, because it was achieved at the expense of a budget that did not do what I said I was going to do—or did what I said I wasn't going to do! — and also with the sacrifice of public services. As always, what we are looking at is a government strategy to underestimate revenue and overestimate expenditure. Therefore, at the end of the year, we always realize that public investment has not been implemented and that the debate we had, when we discuss the Budget, when we discuss the forecasts of tax revenue, when we discuss investment in public services, health, transport, is not worth anything. This debate is of no use because the government does not take it, even as an indicative and, at the end of the year, it presents accounts which have nothing to do with, but which have a standard. It's not random! There is a pattern, which is as follows: revenue is underestimated and expenditure is overestimated. What the General State Account says is that investment, excluding concessions, was 55 % of what had been budgeted, and the bulk of the lack of implementation, which is more than EUR 1000 million, is in transport, communications, security and public order. The Secretary of State presents this as a success and as a added value for the country, but I think it was much more important and perhaps the country would have prepared much better for the pandemic if it had invested everything that it had planned in the National Health Service rather than wanting to make shines at the end of the year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u211	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u212	...disvaluing fully the budgetary debate we have had here. It is repeated, as I said, and it continues to exist. This Account refers to 2019, we are in 2021, however it has passed 2020 and the Supplementary Budget, which was approved in pandemic times, has not even been executed, so none of these problems seem to have had a solution in the short term at least. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u213	In order to close this debate, the Government has the floor of Mr. Secretary of State Claudia Joaquim.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are some aspects that I think it is very important to re-emphasize as a result of our previous discussion in the Commission. With regard to transparency, the Budget Framework Act, the amendments tabled by the Government and voted in the Assembly, with new information, new maps, more detail, strengthening of the SNC-AP, strengthening of UniLEO, strengthening of maps, structural investments, all this is a sign of transparency. They are also a sign of transparency and a sign of improvement in the presentation of accounts and public finances the recommendations of the Court of Auditors and the positive way in which there has been an evolution. In 2015, there were 98 recommendations from the Court of Auditors, but only 55 were welcomed. If we go back further, history is worse, which means that there has been, and there is, a permanent effort in all General Accounts of the State, in all State budgets, to improve information and to make it more transparent and visible in a better way for all Portuguese. But I would also like to talk about public investment, which has experienced a gradual increase over the governance period since 2016, either in the initial appropriation or in the execution rate, with a very particular feature if we look at these two variations. The increase in the implementation rate, from year to year and accumulated, is greater than the increase in the initial allocation, which means an increase in the implementation capacity. Why? Because in 2016, when it took possession, the government encountered a set of investments that were only on paper, were not approved nor were the procedures launched.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u215	It's still our fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u216	Any one of the gentlemen. Members will certainly know how long it will take a service to launch its procedures, its implementation, the challenges. What we needed was what the government did until we reached this point, an increase in investment implementation, a much more significant volume of investment, including in 2021 and 2020. If the gentlemen. Members will see the monthly implementation of the Directorate-General for Budget, and they will also have the opportunity to see this. It is therefore very important to strengthen the increase in investment, but I also know that it is very important and convenient, I would say, just to talk about public investment without talking about all the other measures that represented an improvement in the lives of Portuguese people, an increase in their monthly income, an increase in their pensions, an increase in social benefits. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is no longer worth mentioning! In fact, it is better not to mention this when you look at it for the last five years, but that is also what makes the Portuguese have, every day, a better life,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u217	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u218	... better income and are not faced with a situation where they do not know whether, the following week, the decision of the Council of Ministers will be a pension cut or a income cut. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to speak again about the tax burden, which is an indicator on which the government is not afraid to speak. The tax burden in 2015 was 34, 3 % and by 2020 was 34, 6 %, plus 0, 1 percentage points. What is the tax burden composed of? Mostly, and to a large extent, contributions to social security, which I am referring to: if there are more contributions to social security, with a tax which has not increased for decades and which remains in the same proportion, which means that it affects more wage mass, which is the result of two effects, more employment and higher incomes, if for the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bad thing, so I think we are talking about it. It is a matter of assuming that we do not want there to be a strengthening of the sustainability of social security, that we do not want there to be a strengthening of social protection. Great! [[Protests by PSD Member Afonso Oliveira.]] So let us acknowledge that we want there to be a reduction in the tax burden, to a large extent justified by the increase in contributions to social security. Mrs. Members and Members of Parliament, with no social security contributions between 2015 and 2020, the tax burden decreased by a percentage point from 25, 3 % to 24, 3 %. But the IRS, for example, also has an impact on labour income, and this also enables us to see that the tax burden, even from contributions to social security, has had a positive effect on the Portuguese. This is indisputable. We can defend what we want, of course, and we can defend that we all want a lower tax burden, but then let us recognise and tell the Portuguese that we also want them to have lower incomes or more unemployment, because that is the only way we can achieve a lower tax burden to a large extent. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Finally, I would like to mention and underline the strong investment that has been made in the National Health Service. In 2020, in a particularly difficult year, we saw a strengthening of human resources, an increase in effective investment and a better capacity...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u219	We're talking about the 2019 State Account!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u220	Mr. Member, we can talk about the 2019 and 2020 Account, but with regard to the 2019 Account, we can also talk about the significant decrease in late payments because on 31 December 2015 hospitals had a debt of EUR 451 million and by December 2020 they had a debt of EUR 147 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u221	Having concluded that the debate on the 2019 State General Account has the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita to make an announcement to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u222	Mr President, it is only to inform that Mrs Marta Freitas of the Socialist Party was present by video conference, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-17.u223	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it remains to be announced that the next plenary session will take place tomorrow for 10 hours. on the agenda are the Appeals to the Government No 10 / XIV / 2. a, required by the CDS-PP, on « Pandemic management, post-state emergency. Vaccination certificates and recovery in health, social and economic areas' and, secondly, statutory votes. For today, our work has been completed. I wish everyone a good afternoon and a good night. Members and others present. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 34 minutes.]]
