ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority, we will start this plenary meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] For my perplexity, there are several readings that the Secretary will have to do now. I say it in quotes, because it was me who signed all these initiatives. Do your favor, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first reading is an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of the Deputies concerning the resignation of Mr André Lourenço and Silva, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, elected by the electoral circle of Lisbon, being replaced by Nelson José Basílio Silva, of the same electoral circle. It states the opinion that « the resignation of Mr. André Lourenço and Silva fulfils the legal requirements, being replaced by Nelson José Basílio Silva, from June 6, 2021, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on this opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Please continue with the second reading, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I also announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, Bill No 101 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAA ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; Bills Nos 860 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 14. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 861 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 862 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) ; Parliamentary Assessments Nos 49 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP and PEV ) and 50 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) ; and the Draft Deliberation No 14 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR). They also entered the Bureau and were admitted, Resolution Projects Nos 1319 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 1320 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 1321 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1322 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1323 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1324 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 1325 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1326 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1327 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1328 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 2. the Commission, and 1329 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 12. the Commission. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u5	Let us therefore enter the first item on the agenda. under Article 74. the Rules of Procedure, we have scheduled a current debate required by the PCP on the preparation of the new school year. To open the debate, you have the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u6	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: The CFP has called for the scheduling of this current debate on the preparation of the new school year because it has to be now, and not only on the first day of class, the time to discuss the concrete changes that must be made and to present solutions to the problems that are put in the recovery of student learning and the valorization of public school and all its workers. Many of the problems that the public school is facing are prior to the epidemic and should have been solved long ago. However, there are others who stem from the epidemic context and who also need concrete answers. A week ago, the government announced the so-called 'learning recovery plan', based on its presentation more on the millions concerned than on concrete changes from the point of view of the school year. In fact, it was above all the statement of an unclear set of intentions, nothing detailed and limited in time, the application of which is only for two academic years. It is important that the Government fully clarify which means will effectively be at the service of schools so that there is autonomy that enables the strengthening of educational and social support, the hiring of the required workers, the reduction in the number of students per class. Autonomy without means is just a verb to fill. in this context, the increase in investment that has to take place to recover delays, to combat dropout and failure at school, to value workers and public school appears to be well more than 140 million euros identified in the plan, to respond to the needs identified by schools in educational, organizational and resource plans. It is necessary to reduce the number of students per class; to ensure the individual pedagogical differentiation and by learning groups per year of schooling; to ensure the hourly credit for management, according to the autonomy of each group and of ungrouped school; more time credit for class directors, working groups, or others; to increase partnerships and co-adjudications; to end classes of 1. the cycle with more than one year of schooling; reduce the school hours load of students; facilitate the organization of classes, enabling them to unfold; strengthen the tutorials; create multidisciplinary pedagogical teams that support the school plans for learning recovery; ensure adequate training for all workers; strengthen the means for inclusive school. More: it is necessary to ensure greater support for social action at school, a matter that does not break down in government announcements. The CFP argues that it is necessary to go much further than the set of announced generalities. What concrete measures will the Government take to give the necessary answers? When do these measures reach schools? What means are schools going to be able to count exactly? Minister, schools need to know now and they can't stay until September without knowing what they can count on. on the side of the problems prior to the epidemic, there are successive attacks on workers' rights over years. There is no recovery of learning possible if there are no auxiliaries, administrative, specialized technicians, senior technicians, teachers and educators each school needs. All must be valued in the functions that each one performs. It is therefore unacceptable to continue the precariousness of thousands of educational, non-teaching workers for long-term contracts, when they are permanent needs of schools or 12 000 teachers and educators with precarious links, even though they have 10 or more years of service. It is inconceivable that the ratio of non-teachers is used for term contracts and that workers are not hired who are in fact missing only because the ratio is completed. It is necessary to ensure that workers contracted with CVID-19 contracts are linked, because they need schools. It is incomprehensible that the Government is late in taking measures to ensure that retirement exits correspond to employment contracts in sufficient numbers and with a stable bond. How many public school workers, Minister, will they move on to reform until the beginning of the school year? A very large number of teachers will be questioned by the end of the decade, as indicated by the statistics of the DGEC itself ( Directorate-General for Education and Science Statistics ). Teachers in various recruitment groups are missing and recall the serious problem they witnessed, particularly in January last year and also in early this year until the time of confinement, the shortage of these workers, particularly in Lisbon, Setúbal and Algarve. The Government and the PS rejected the CFP's proposals to resolve this issue. But what measures will you take to overcome this problem? Mr Minister, it is not enough for the Government to come with the same language as the measures implemented in the last Parliament or to represent measures which have already been announced in this Parliament. Yes, the positive measures arising from the State budget and resulting from the proposal and intervention of the CFP must be implemented. But that is not enough, it needs more and more needs to be in the sense of breaking up with the policy of the right and in the affirmation of a patriotic and left-wing policy. To this end, it has never, nor will it be lacking, the proposal and the intervention of the CFP which, consistent, successively and consequently, has fought for the defense of public school, democratic, universal, free, inclusive for all, ensuring respect for the rights of students and their workers as well. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u7	in this period of debate, you have the floor by the government, the Minister of Education, Tiago Brandão Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Fifteen days after I have been discussing the improvement of the state of education professionals, I thank Parliament and, in it, the Portuguese Communist Party more this opportunity to come to your meeting to measure the path already made and point ways to a near future and now to prove that I and my team are "patriotic and left". [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]] Now that the whole country is looking for ways to recover from the pandemic, now that the urgency of the immediate allows even the political souls fed by the first page of the day to see beyond it, this is the moment for the deep discussion about the coming academic year, which the CFP invokes in its request for this hearing, as well as, of course, for all the subjects of educational policy that you are talking about. and the honourable Members understand this afternoon to invoke. We all know well how the epidemiological situation in the country has become more sensitive to the challenges that are almost all the challenges of education, ever since. But if the pandemic has shown what we still have, as a community, to overcome, it is also true that it has highlighted the resilience of educational communities, the essentiality of education for all of us and for each one of us, also putting in greater evidence something that anyone with them already knew: the immense merits of our education professionals, first and fundamental architects of the present response that education has given, and it still gives, to more than one year of teaching and learning in circumstances that are previously absolutely unimaginable, and the active and committed form of, with us, are building a next school year that will, even though not exactly what we all want it to be, a matrix year in the recovery of learning and in the resilience of teaching. This will be a year of recovery and resilience that will lead to better follow-up to the resistance of our educational communities and the resumption of the present learnings that we have not yet achieved. "The last to close and the first to open" — it was always what we said about our schools and it was exactly what we tried to do with all of them. It is precisely a robust preparation of the next school year that we have come to build with each school: a robust response guaranteed by the environment, by the structure and, above all, by the people. The response to the situation allows us today to live a less intense phase of the pandemic, in which the majority vaccination of the population and, within it, of the educational communities is no longer a long-term aspiration, but rather a reality in constant progress. Even last week, we had a complementary test in municipalities with a higher incidence rate, including Lisbon, doing more than 20,000 tests, with a positive around 0,2 %, which proves the work of our communities. Through the response by the educational structure we see today, which is more gifted as long ago as it was not. When comparing official education statistics, the academic years 2014 - 2015 and 2019 - 2020, we can see that there was a reinforcement of 8000 teachers who did not accompany the reduction of 100 000 students by demographic factors. The student ratio per teacher was in 2009 - 2010 of 8, 9, and in 2020 - 2021, in the current school year, of 8, 7. The response by people, whether they are those who teach, whether they learn, with the resources and needs that are from each other and which, therefore, differ from the others, in themselves, requires us policies that treat these people, these communities and these schools with the autonomy and flexibility that they most need, having already given so many evidences that they deserve fully. To hear, think, decide, implement and evaluate — these are the phases of the political decision with which we will all agree. What decides, however, its quality is its degree of participation, involvement, auscultation and follow-up. And, therefore, we heard experts, representatives of directors, teachers, students, pedagogical councils, representatives of parents and education officials, city halls and sector associations of education. Because we want the recovery of learning, already in progress, to be expanded in the next school year and, decisively, in the next year, it was a high degree of partnership we sought in its design and it was the same degree that we saw in its application. We trusted the schools and, by trusting them, we made the choices we made: we chose the educational autonomy, the care of the transition between cycles and the balance of the different components of the well-being of our students. We created, with this plan involved, and we will create, with its collaborative implementation, an expanded and strengthened space and time to support, based on greater flexibility and intensity, the years of schooling most affected by the pandemic. Looking at those who are most at risk of staying behind, so that we will take more care of them, we also put forward the training of educational communities and schools with resources and means that will enable them to strengthen their already remarkable response capacity, particularly oriented towards improving learning, inclusion and community involvement. We have put forward the strengthening of human resources, the strengthening of teachers for the expansion of specific tutorial support and the strengthening of teachers by means of hourly credit, primarily for the support of the first cycle and cycle transitions. We also supported the strengthening of multidisciplinary teams to support inclusive education and the strengthening of technicians allocated to personal, social and Community development plans. We are committed to strengthening training through the production of specific training materials in mathematics and the action training support plan for inclusion practices, not only for teachers but also for non-teachers. And we've worked and bet on gearing and infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am not talking about works and interventions in schools, I am talking about strengthening the budget of the school libraries, the extension and attachment of a set of laboratories, the Network of Clubes Ciência Viva in the School, the facilities of the Digital Education Laboratory and the installation of centres of technological specialization for the effective modernization of vocational education.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u9	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u10	We have posted and strengthened digital resources to evaluate students, teachers, schools and to manage, at every moment, the extraordinary resources we have allocated. This is for those who need education and care and for those who need to learn to teach, because it is important to evaluate public policies. We have no other time to say « present! » those who need us the most. This is our time and now our place. I repeat, it is here and now that we say « present! » : count on us, as we count on each educational community, every school, every student and every teacher, every family and, of course, every party and every one of the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u11	To open the first round, Mr Porfirio Silva, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : Speaking of the learning recovery plan, whose master lines have been presented by the government, it is important to identify what is essential in order to ensure that the unmeasured pandemic experience does not remain a permanent scar on the lives of children and young people. Today, as yesterday, the essential thing is that teaching is very important, but learning is that it is decisive. That is why education, after the pandemic, must not be a response to the average student of statistics, because this student is not in any school in this country—there is no student equal to another. And because teaching is important but learning is crucial, education, after the pandemic, must respond to the worsening inequalities that affect the school and strengthen the plurality of ways to learn, because different students have different anchorages to schools—for some, it is reading and for others, it is the experimental approach to science, artistic expression, approach to the professional world or sport—and each student can build a whole path of success from its anchorage. The learning recovery plan places on the tools of this diversity: in strengthening support for reading and writing, in strategies for non-maternal language, in specific support for the recovery of learning in Mathematics, in more Clubs Ciência Viva at School, in aesthetic and artistic education, in curriculum innovation in vocational education, associated with centers of technological specialization, in more school sports inserted into the community. And because teaching is important but learning is that it is decisive, it is important to understand that, in each class, there are different potentialities and different difficulties, requiring approaches in small groups or even individualized ones. To this end, the tools of autonomy and flexibility of schools are strengthened, flexible management of classes, weeks, school schedule and curriculum by study cycles, as well as management of service distribution to have educational teams focused on the student, enabling the reduction of the number of students per teacher. And because no one learns from a test tube, it is important to highlight the programme for social and emotional competences by strengthening specific tutorial support; the extension of personal, social and community development plans; the strengthening of inclusive education teams and strategies to renew the link between school and families. Mrs. Members, in this plan, what first impresses is the size of the investment: EUR 900 million! This is an unprecedented investment in education, an acceleration of what has been done in recent years, in sharp contrast to the latest PSD / CDS government, which has apologized to the troika but cut in education EUR 1200 million more than was foreseen in the Memorandum of Understanding. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] But there is another even more significant investment: the plan makes a renewed bet in confidence in schools and teachers, because education is not the same fact for everyone. When snow in Trás-os-Montes, schools are not closed in the Algarve. Schools will have a toolbox and will have to choose the most appropriate ones for their students and we can only succeed on this path by relying on education professionals, their professionalism and dedication. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the learning recovery plan is as realistic as ambitious for one reason: because it is robust. But the country's success in achieving it will depend on everyone's contribution — the extended hearing process that will continue and the capacity of consultation that has to be exercised permanently, as well as its monitoring and continuous evaluation. And because the country needs this mobilization, it's not a good idea to underestimate what we've been doing in these years. The BE coordinator quickly responded to the plan, saying that the 3000 teachers who had already been announced at the beginning of the school year did not arrive at the schools, thus revealing a lack of rigour. It is that there are 3000 teachers in TSI (full-time equivalents), for tutorials and hourly credit, who strengthened the initial allocation of teachers to schools before the beginning of the year, in August, earlier than ever had happened. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the BE Catarina Martins.]] When the Left Block coordinator asks "how can schools be asked to organize all this in three months? », shows you didn't realize something essential: we're not starting from scratch! The schools are not going to start preparing themselves now, they have been responding, from the first day, to the tools that we have consolidated in recent years and that have not been invented now. It's not all done, it's got to go on, but it's not a good idea to underestimate what we've been doing these years. The journey is long, but the direction is clear: success, inclusion and citizenship for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u13	Mr Firmino Marques, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u14	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The CFP Parliamentary Group brought the debate on the theme of the preparation of the academic year, in order to mark the position on negotiations with the Government to enable the approval of the State budget for 2022. Come tell the government how you want the engagement ring! In its initial intervention, the PCP made the exposition of its textbook on the work of teachers: time counting, career progression, evaluation of teaching performance, more and more human resources, in addition to the question that always tries to pass, which is the less examinations and external evaluations of students. It unites us with the recognition of the importance of the issues under discussion, and separates us from the views and choices on education.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u15	Is that where you're from?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u16	The PSD would like to focus on another issue: social and economic resilience must be achieved through well-designed and well-oriented investment in education.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u18	Returns from investment in education translate into economic, social and individual benefits, including better skills, employability, increased productivity and higher gains. Among non-economics, the benefits associated with education are better health, lower crime rates and higher levels of trust, tolerance and civic and political involvement. The most relevant social return is associated with higher GDP growth (gross domestic product), better diffusion and adoption of technologies, greater innovation capacity, stable public finances and more and better social cohesion. European countries, which are better educated, both in terms of means, in quantity and quality, have shown a faster recovery capacity than economic shocks, resulting in better economic resilience. Low levels of education are clearly linked to poverty and, considering that it reaches a large number of Portuguese, education is therefore one of the main challenges to our country's development. The phrase "don't leave anyone behind" can't just be a mantra that packs us all. Poverty is more frequent among those with lower education and is associated with intergenerational reproduction processes that are urgent. We continue to insist on the need for the implementation of a system of monitoring and evaluation of learning that allows the temporal and spatial comparison of results and allows the correction of public policies in good time, for the benefit of its recipients. More finer, more targeted and quality-focused intervention is required. As a country, we have made significant progress: we have reduced school dropout by about 1, 3 percentage points per year in the last 25 years, having passed from 41, 4 % to 8, 9 %. But when we reach this point, our goal must be much more incisive and requires acceleration in its implementation. The country is stagnant and the government with its action, or lack of it, engraves the so-called'social elevator'. It is necessary to rescue those who are back there so that we can all walk forward, without compromising the quality of learning, nor the future opportunities of each student. It is necessary to guarantee all students the same opportunities of educational success throughout the school course, using the social action of the school and the principle of equity as the guide of the support criteria. That everyone, but without exception, be guaranteed access to knowledge and curriculum that should be common, encouraging pedagogical flexibility and not curriculum. This is not a question for the next school year, this is a question for this school year, for the next year and for the next year. in this assumption, I ask: what is being done to ensure that the social elevator that the school should represent is working again? What is being thought of for the education system to attract the most competent professionals again? How will the government return dignity to the profession of educator and teacher? How will the teaching class rejuvenate with the lack of appeal of the teaching career and the initial teacher training courses? To these questions, the Government responds invariably to its characteristic silence, calling into question the future of our educational building. Mr President, in conclusion, we know the challenge of ensuring that all children and young people can compensate for lost long-term learning, which will not be exhausted only in the school year of 2021 / 2022, and for which we can aim nothing less than high-quality support, focused on students, teachers and schools, thus recovering the role of each and all. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u19	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. For an intervention, Mrs Alexandra Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u20	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Government presented, in short, a recovery plan for education on Child Day, which was based on a document that is still unknown, which is late, at the end of the school year, and which left many questions unanswered, setting up a form of disrespect for educational communities. The intervention of the PS, already in this debate, by attacking the Left Block proposals, is only intended to help the Government to hide the lack of an essential response. If what is expected is the hiring of 3300 teachers this year, this means keeping the current situation, because they are temporary teachers and have their contract to finish by the end of this school year. Therefore, it is about renewing the contract of the 3300 teachers who were hired last year, and not increasing. Once again, and coming back to the plan, it seems like it's out of the question. It is a plan made of generic intentions and, in some respects, misdirected, when it should correspond to the exceptional moment in which we live. It was necessary to give a concrete, objective and real response to the problems faced by schools for years, which the pandemic has become visible and will not be resolved with this plan. This would be the occasion to look at the structural problems of previous schools, but we will already go there. The pandemic has undoubtedly affected not only learning but also the personal and social development of all children and young people. The mental health problems of the entire educational community have worsened and all inequalities have increased. The strengthening of public school is therefore urgent. The lack of investment in public school has been noted for several years. The weaknesses resulting there have become even more evident. What was required? A robust investment in education, an investment that makes a difference in the lives of children and young people affected by the pandemic. However, the Government is not available to make such an investment. of around EUR 900 million announced, only EUR 140 million are intended for investment in human resources in the coming academic year. Most of the investment, 670 million, goes to equipment and infrastructure, which we know is necessary, because the equipment is in a critical state. But this attachment was already under way and we do not know which part was already planned for the 599 million already announced. Let us go to the concrete point of the structural problems, and I will say two. The first one, and because it is impossible to deny its existence, is the lack of teachers at present and that will worsen in the coming years. Does the government think that the recovery plan is disconnected from the solution of the chronic problems of public school? Every year teachers are missing in various disciplines because the government does not want to pay what is due to the dislocated teachers or be fair to those who accept incomplete hours. Mr. Minister, do you really think that 3300 teachers are enough? That doesn't reach three teachers by grouping, and it's the same number last year. Was that enough? We don't think so. Under what conditions were these teachers hired? For a year and almost always in incomplete hours! As you see, it is not a solution to the structural problem and it has the aggravating of not knowing whether the hourly credit will even exist and how it will be realized. in this context, the Left Block has no doubt that this plan is insufficient in resolving this problem. Another dimension to highlight is the question of autonomy. Mr Minister uses the word 'autonomous' which uses it, but we still have to ask him the following: will it be possible for the directors to complete the incomplete hours with the hours of tutoring, without having to apply for authorization for protection? Will it be possible, at least, to change the calculation formula, which penalizes schools with the older faculty? Will it be possible to reduce the number of students per class, according to the needs of each grouping? Will it be possible to hire teachers and technicians according to the needs of each school or group of schools? It is not enough to say that you rely on schools and say that you have all autonomy. This good intention must be expressed in concrete measures aimed at democratic management of schools, which is always postponed and without plausible explanation. Mr Minister, the autonomy of schools cannot be a coward, nor can a form of government remove responsibilities. We need a more tailored education for each educational and customised community, which is not done without substantial and lasting strengthening of human resources—more teachers, specialized technicians, technical assistants, operational assistants. Minister, are the 140 million coming for this? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u21	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, indeed, our fears have been confirmed: to a number of specific concerns and issues, the Government has again responded with a number of generalities and measures not detailed to solve the problems. And this is no use, Minister! This doesn't work! It is necessary to provide answers so that there is indeed no clear set of intentions, nothing detailed and limited in time, as we had the opportunity to mention at the beginning of the debate. Therefore, the CFP again asks: what means will it be effectively at the service of schools so that there is an autonomy that can be said to be effective and that allows the strengthening of educational and social support, the hiring of the workers needed, the decrease in the number of students per class? Mr Minister, how is it possible that the 15, 5 % of funds identified in this learning recovery plan will arrive to respond to needs in the educational, organizational and resource plans? It is that it is 140 million for two academic years, when we have a lack of workers in public school and with a very serious problem of precariousness! It's not with crumbs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u23	Migalhas? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u24	...that this problem will be solved, Minister! It is indeed necessary to take concrete action. Other questions we left him with great concern: where is the school social action in the middle of it all? What reinforcement of school social action will happen? What support for families? What support do you give to the students? What support and means for inclusive education? What is more, Mr Minister: there is one concern we have had, which is about precariousness. We continue to say that it is not acceptable for the ratio of non-teachers to be used for term contracts and that workers who are missing are not hired telling schools that they cannot be hired because the ratio is completed. But if necessary, Minister, they must be hired. Why isn't this changing? Why isn't there this authorization? But again, Minister, we are talking about a huge number of retirement exits. This is a very concrete question, and we have made it: how many public school workers are going to retire until the beginning of the school year? How many will be hired to fill retirements and with what ties? It is not important to contract with long-term ties for those who are permanent needs, it is necessary to hire and respect the rights of workers. Then, Minister, teachers are missing in various recruitment groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u25	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u26	How is that possible? It is a situation which is being dragged and which has already been debated, several times, in the Assembly of the Republic. The CFP has already questioned the Government many times about what measures it would take on this subject, but there was no word on it. How will learning be recovered if there are no teachers? What do you mean, Minister? And what measures will the government take, then, so that by the beginning of the school year we can solve this issue? And more: it cannot be limited at the beginning of the school year, because this is a matter of substance and needs substantive answers. And what are they, Minister? In addition, we would like to know whether in preparation for the next school year there will also be a concern to listen to students, because it seems to us that we need to listen to them and identify with them the problems about psychological, emotional and learning conditions, in order to resume normality and recover learning. Finally, I end with a question. In view of the fact that there is a fundamental problem that prevents the resolution of so many issues that we are debating today, which is the negotiating blockade with the unions, I ask: when will Mr Minister end the negotiation embargo? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u27	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u28	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries : Sending us to the end of the COVID, if we run well with vaccination and group immunity, I would say that the subject of learning recovery is perhaps the most important one we have in front of, alongside the recovery of the economy. I therefore find it difficult to understand why, a week after this plan has been presented in a school, Parliament does not yet have access to the robust document so that we can have a discussion that is really informed and really transparent. We have access to a video about protection in school and a PowerPoint, but if we really want to have a concerted position in building what is for me, for the CDS, one of the main lines of recovery in this country, we should start right there, for having access to information, for the discussion not to be asymmetric and, finally, poorly informed, for no misconception, for no errors. This is the first note I'd like to leave. With regard to what is public and what I had access, exactly in this search attitude and because I recognize the importance of some topics for bridges of understanding, I would like to begin by listing those with whom I — reading the three axes of action of a kind of press release to which I had access — and the CDS we agree. There are really some things we agree on and are good starting points. For example, the bet on reading and writing 1. the cycle. We know that it is important — we already know from the study that won the 2017 Maria de Lourdes Pintasilgo Prize — and that here lies the beginning of school failure, so it is important to bet on these skills. On the increase in flexible management of classes, we have been talking about this for a long time, even in contrast to this patriotic and left-wing policy that Mr Minister says is part of, since this policy aims to reduce the number of students per class. Allowing a student who repudiates one or more disciplines to pass by year and can attend this discipline that comes from the previous year—yes, we agree. With regard to the development of indicators and instruments for monitoring the plan to promote transparent information—yes, we agree. We agree, but many of these ideas will only have an impact in the medium or long term and, in fact, in order to have that effect in the long term, they should be starting to work unless yesterday. And that concerns me - because what I do not see in this plan - and there, yes, I feel a significant gap - are emergency measures, emergency measures. How many students from diagnostic studies, from work in schools, are signaled to know what they already have behind? What are their difficulties and what disciplines? If I don't know that, I don't know how many teachers, and above all what teachers I need to hire to support. How many students have returned in terms of behavior, motivation, absenteeism? What mediation work needs to be done now to get them back in the year at the beginning of September? Why isn't there a job in the summer for these students who are marked as being at greater risk? Why isn't there a job at the beginning of the school year, even before they start classes in September, so that they can start classes not backwards, but at least with reduced difficulties?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u29	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u30	I conclude, yes, Mr President, by saying that I believe this is an investment plan, but it is not a recovery and emergency plan. Question : Where is the emergency for you in carrying out this plan? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u31	Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor, whom I use to wish the greatest happiness, success, success and luck in this new role she will perform here in Parliament as leader of the PAN Parliamentary Group. at the same time, I congratulate the NAP on its congress and its results. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u32	Mr President, I thank you twice not only for giving me the floor but also for the greetings and congratulations addressed to me in particular and also to the NAP. We'll be there to do our job. Mr. President, Mr. Minister and their team, Mr. and Mr. Members : I would begin by welcoming the CFP for the scheduling of this issue and by welcoming the educational communities, of course, for their hard and competent work, which seems to be consensual in this House. We have told the Minister, whenever we have found ourselves, that this is clearly a unique opportunity to strengthen public education policies, to make fundamental restructurings on the way. In view of the plan that we are still going to discuss in an early way—we hope that it can be discussed in a more thorough manner—we would like to bring two reflections. We are still faced with a rather vague plan which, on the one hand, does not seem to fall into the temptation of 'easy thinking', to seek outsourced answers, and seems to want to take a path to strengthening the internal responses of educational communities, to dignify educational professionals. In addition, it seems to bring a path to national plans — that of the arts, that of reading, among many others — the skills team, for the primary objectives of this recovery plan. However, in order to be able to assume that this is not really such a vague plan, it is essential to have Mr. Minister's commitments and very concrete answers. Of course, it is said in the plan that it sits on three pillars: success, inclusion and citizenship. In the perspective of the NAP, two pillars are missing, which are that of innovation and well-being. We insist with the Minister that there should be a wide listening of the educational communities and because, last time we met, Mr. Minister has already listed several entities that have been heard - we are interested - to understand who has actually been heard by our students, our children and young people, as well as to know whether they will be heard in the planning of the next school year, as recommended by the CNE (National Council for Education ). A second question, even at this initial stage, is that curriculum autonomy is a valuable instrument, but it will only be effective if there is an autonomy that is not synonymous with decisions without a network of guardianship. In reviewing programmatic content at the level of essential learning, we know that our teachers already make this horizontal and vertical review of curricula, but they continue to appeal to the Ministry of Education for a support network to ensure that this review of essential content is validated and has this support from the Ministry. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u33	Once again, many happinesses, Mrs. Deputies. Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u34	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the PCP Parliamentary Group for bringing the debate as important as that of the preparation of the next academic year, a theme as current as, as a result of the epidemic and wrong government options, hundreds of thousands of students had two academic years in question. As part of the Education Commission, the Greens gave the following example : not to change the rules, a student who, in the academic year 2019 / 2020, entered 10. the year, next school year you will have to take an access examination to higher education, even though for two years you had only half a dozen months of classes. The Minister of Education replied that this happened to all students. Yes, it's true, and that's the drama! Suddenly, the government found the solution and, in order to shine, on World Child Day, drew a plan from the cardboard with the pompous name of Plan 21 23 School +, Learning Recovery Plan and the massive sum of 900 million euros. Indeed, neither the flowering of the presentation nor the promised millions are compatible with the presented plan. of possible reading are some questions raised to us. How long will this plan be implemented, as a whole? The government speaks of the presentation of a curriculum autonomy plan, with recommendations for the follow-up of each student. Will you be ready at the beginning of the school year? We read about dynamic classes, but will they be possible when the Ministry of Education refuses to reduce the number of students per class, even in time of pandemic, when is it recommended to limit people in closed spaces? It refers to the formation of educational teams. When will workers be hired to constitute them? Are you going to be in office by September? And what bond? Will the government encourage workers to engage with the students or will it tell them that they are there for six months and then you will soon see where they will be or will they be? Specific training actions are announced for teaching and non-teaching staff. When will this training be done? Will all staff be prepared in the first period or will they begin training in September and students will wait for professionals to be able to implement the plans? Yes, Minister, these are just a few of the questions that are raised at this stage where they are still possible to work, but in fact, what is absolutely necessary is for the government to clarify, so that it is no longer just an announcement. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u35	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u36	I begin by addressing you, Mr President, who congratulated the NAP on its congress, but apparently forgot to congratulate the coming Congress too, so today you have the opportunity to do so, if you understand that all parties in this House are equal and deserve the same attention and commitment on your part. [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]] As far as I know, it is a party of Parliament and it has had its congress, just as the PAN had. I think they both deserve the same greeting. Mrs. Members, Minister, said that the rankings that assess schools are unfair, but they are rankings created with their indicators and are rankings created by the indicators that the government itself has defined. Now, when he comes to this House he says that the shameful situation of public schools is the cause of the rankings is assuming his own failure. I would like to ask you whether or not it is true that, until September, we will have all computers finally distributed, as you promised at the end of 2020, by all schools, whether public or private. It is only enough, Mr Minister, to pay €4600, with celebrations of April 25, to prominent socialist militants and there is no money to pay computers to schools or to pay our teachers and education assistants. That is what a socialist government should think of the day it announces that someone will earn €4600 per month and has no money to distribute computers to public schools, which continue to define in quality always under its protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u37	Sir, the Congress of the Arrival was on May 28th...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u38	And Mr. President didn't say anything about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u39	It's been a week and you didn't mention it yourself. Clearly, I wish you all your personal happiness.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u40	Guys!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u41	There is nothing else to say about this, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor. Did you have a congress, too, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u42	If necessary, I shall hold a congress, Mr. President. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u43	It's true, it's true. I don't want to be making comparisons,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u44	You'd better not!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u45	... because I cannot and should not, but neither the Liberal Initiative nor the Arrival have changed the faces of those who represent them in Parliament, and who represent the NAP in Parliament today is a Member who is not exactly the same as he did before.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u46	Isn't it the same? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u47	It was also difficult for parties with only one representative to be able to change their representative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u48	Mr President, I just want to address Mr. Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u49	I ask you to understand me, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u50	There is already information that our convention will be in December.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u51	Thank you very much and congratulations, Mr President. Good work and personal happiness for you too. Please, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President, and following the next PS congress I also pay. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For those who think that the subject of learning delays is just one matter, two data should be remembered. The IAVE ( Institute of Educational Assessment ) states that as a result of closing schools, more than half of the students in 6. it's 9. the years do not reach the minimums of elementary knowledge. As for the long-term impacts, several studies point out that many thousands of euros of income will be lost throughout the lives of these students and several billion euros will be lost by the economies where they are. In the face of this genuine national emergency, Mr Minister presented a learning recovery plan last day. In fact, they were a few slides with little detail and, therefore, we require access to the full version of the plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u53	Again?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u54	Today morning, what arrived was a text in which half is to praise the PS, because for PS propaganda always comes first, and then there is a resounding of intentions, technocratic jargon and measures without practical content. There is no discrimination of money, there is no timetable for execution and there is no way to assess whether the objectives have been met, which, in fact, are not defined anywhere either. So, to clarify the doubts and concerns of parents and students who, in terms of learning recovery and since the Minister says that the plan will cost EUR 900 million over the next two years, would like me to clarify the following: does this value already include the EUR 125 million announced in June with so much pump? of these 900 million, more than two thirds are for infrastructures. What is the logic of mixing structural expenditure with the conjuncural response to the serious problem of delay in learning? How much of this structural expenditure was already planned and, if so, why do you present it again? Is it just to deceive the distracted?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u55	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u56	I'm almost done, Mr. President. How much of the investment of EUR 630 million in infrastructure has a direct impact on the recovery of learning? This investment will be less than 300 € per student, which is below all the countries we would like to compare with, and is a tenth of what you will spend on the Netherlands, for example. I will not ask questions about how many students, how many schools, why no summer programs are planned or why no emphasis is given to tutoring programs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u57	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u58	I shall conclude, Mr President. Three months from the beginning of the school year, it is unforgivable that none of this is known, that none of this is planned and that it has already given up in the summer. This is the future of our youth to be mortgaged by inaction, not by incompetence, of your Ministry.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u59	Again, thank you very much, many congratulations and happinesses. [[CDS-PP, CH and IL rice.]] You have the floor, Mr. Education Minister, Mr. Tiago Brandão Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u60	Mr. President, I didn't have a convention, but I did years this week. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Having done years this week, what I expected was a congratulations, not by Mr President but by this House. Responding to Mrs. Members, I address first to the PPD/PSD Parliamentary Group and I would like to record the positive evolution of PSD thinking on education. I congratulate Mr Firmino Marques, Chairman of the Education Committee, on showing that the time for early vocational segregation of the establishment of curricular activities and the formatation of the teaching-learning process for examinations seems far away. Mr President of the Commission, it is so important that they talk about equal opportunities and social elevators. Welcome to the right path in the discussion of education. I am pleased that, with its good sense, with its knowledge, particularly on the ground, it brings what really matters because, in the face of truth, this good path has been lost for a long time by the PPD/PSD Parliamentary Group. On the issues raised by the CFP Parliamentary Group, I would like to remind you that we have done so, too, in the preliminary note we sent to the Members. Members, for all parliamentary groups, including for the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group — that this learning recovery plan was approved a week and a half ago, in general, at the Council of Ministers, and before that we had a set of hearings. He was asked by several Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after all, we had listened. It was people as suspicious as Alexander Man Christ. People as suspicious as David Justino. Do we know? Oh, my God! We have also heard him because he is not just apparently an expert in education and former Minister. Joaquim Azevedo, you know? He was heard, too. Obviously, we heard a set of other experts. We had a working group and heard a set of representatives of industry associations. It was also important to hear trade union organisations, Mrs Deputy, representing workers, particularly teachers. On the other hand, we heard students. The honourable Member asked 'when are we going to listen to the students? Do not keep on seeking. ” We heard a group of students from several regions of the country, indicated by the CFEE (school associations training centres), we heard a group of students heard through UNICEF (United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund ) and we had a meeting with their representatives, we also heard a group of students heard through the ComPart and we heard students presidents of student associations. That is the way we have made, and that is the way we are now making, because, after generally approval, after we know the plan, we would be hearing today, for example, all the directors of groupings or non-grouped schools, and we are not, because we are here with the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. But let's listen to the directors, let's hear the School Council, let's hear the National Education Council between this and next week, we'll be able to hear all these representatives to get the final approval of this plan, after you hear the schools. So we already have this realisation. The honourable Member of the CFP said that we have come here to present generalities. They're not generals! And so much is not the generality that the honourable Member has a set of fears that have been confirmed solely and simply for one reason: because the honourable Member has already said, before we present this plan, that she has such fears. Then we talked about the course, we talked about the measures, and the honourable Member said that she did not know them, but it lists, almost words to them, everything we had said.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u61	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u62	That is why it is important to say that it is normal for the PCP at the moment to distrust the direction, as much as the direction coincides with what we had mentioned, because the PCP had already said that it was going to distrust the direction. With regard to the media, and because you also brought here questions of social action in school, you have to say that social action in school since 2015 has increased by 25%. Only in the last State budget rose 10, 1 %, 23 million euros. It is important to say that we have to go further, and it is true that more resources are needed, so we bring more resources. What can't happen is that it's EUR 900 million and apparently we're all mad because, after all, it's EUR 900 million for infrastructure, as if the infrastructure and the gearing we've been talking about were not absolutely essential to be structural, ladies and gentlemen. It is that new digital laboratories, new science clubs living in school, new laboratories for vocational education are, of course, very fundamental. Mrs Deputies, I have to tell you that EUR 900 million is not roses, of course, but they are not migalas, of course, breads of great quality that our schools will use. With regard to what the CDS-PP has just told us, that he is suspicious of work in our schools, because basically he says that recovery is still going to be done. Mrs Deputy, the work is not yet done, but it is under way.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u63	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u64	Every time we talk to a director, every time we talk to a teacher, they tell us, absolutely clearly, that this work is being done, and is being done since the first day they closed. They are recovering learning, they are actually working for the recovery and consolidation of learning. But we need to do more, we know that this is important and we agree with you, Mrs Deputies. We agree in sharing, we agree in transparency and therefore we promote it. And, too, we have a set of indicators, to have more data, to have better monitoring, to understand how we can see the efficiency and effectiveness of all our measures. I thought that what we sent did not reach the CDS Parliamentary Group, but ask why we answered. You will have the opportunity to see, through the legislative process, that schools will also know the whole plan and, of course, each of the measures will have a set of additional information that will reach the schools, which we also want it to arrive. Mrs Mariana Silva, from the ENP, tells us and emphasizes that the plan has a name. Plans usually have a name, Mrs. Member, but let's not stay for the name or stay for the symbols. We know that symbols necessarily represent something. A small flower is always a flower, and it is important, and the ENP has always shown itself with this great flower...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u65	It's not for me you're talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u66	Excuse me, I would like to refer to Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP. I wanted to thank the NAP for, being demanding, knowing how to look and see the humanist bet made in this plan and how important it was, in the name of urgency, not abdicating the inclusion and citizenship. Obviously, the other principles and the other pillars that the honourable Member has just listed are also in the plan and are part of the work that each of the teaching teams is doing in schools. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, tells us that he wants to know the plan and that he has made a request in this regard. We will have the opportunity to answer it, but here is a question, which is whether the EUR 125 million are the same as we have presented. The EUR 125 million are in schools this year, with specialized technicians, psychologists, moderators, teachers. The EUR 900 million is for the future. The EUR 125 million was spent, for example, on tutoring, on strengthening the hourly credit. It is necessary to clarify this, because there were those who asked this question, who asked where those teachers were. Those who know schools, who know the dynamics of schools, know that last year, in the regulations, we changed the allocation of time credit that corresponds to each of the TEIP (priority education territories) and not TEIP and, therefore, in the indication of the educational component, as soon as July, the honourable Members. Directors, the management teams had the opportunity to request these resources. On August 14, when the initial contract was announced, these teachers were assigned to each of the schools and, on September 1, they were there. The Left Block Coordinator asked questions on this matter. She knows the schools well and knows that these teachers have been there since the beginning of the school year, and there is no doubt about that. As for specialized technicians, I mean that schools have been authorized, and schools have hired and can now also renew. And there are a set of schools, almost 200 schools or groupings, which will also be able to have specialized technicians, since they did not have them last year, since they did not use this instrument. Finally, I would like to say to Mr. Deputy that we don't make rankings, it's at the door next door. Indicators we have, and we invite you to look at them, study them and do something to really understand what school is. Come here with sound bits, we all know how to do it, but the honourable Member seems to know better than all of us. And don't play with April 25!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u67	It's our money!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u68	Do not play with April 25, because April 25 is too serious, this whole House knows what it means and the Portuguese too. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u69	Mr Minister, I did not congratulate you on any congress, because I still remember, although it was 25 years ago, that, when you are in government, you are in permanent congress. And five and a half years as a Minister is a very valuable result. Many congratulations and many happinesses! We are moving on to the second round of the debate. Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : In the weeks preceding the presentation of this plan, the Learning Recovery Plan, we heard various demands from civil society. And during this period, adequate resources were requested, that there be money for the plan to have means; autonomy for schools, so that the response can be adjusted to the environment in which the school is inserted; the involvement of families; the promotion of psychological well-being; and that there be evaluation mechanisms, so that we can measure the impact of the measures. All this in a debate which has indeed been very rich and very extensive. In fact, this is a debate that has mobilized society, because it is a fundamental concern for the future of our students. And what we can say today, already aware of this plan, is that the Government has been able to interpret the concerns expressed in the debate that has been held, a debate which, it is said, the Government has always sought to promote. The government has sought to promote this debate because it has always taken on as fundamental the concern about the impact of the pandemic on our students. We know that the loss of days of classes, but also of learning, is a global issue, although with different degrees of intensity, we know that, although Portugal is located in the lower half of the OECD average (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) of the number of days of lost classes, this at nothing can rest us and, in fact, it was always our understanding that nothing replaces the teacher or the classroom, as, indeed, has been well said and as the early government has perceived. The results we have today are hard, but that is the responsibility of those who are committed to combating inequalities. For this reason, the plan we are discussing here today is a plan made to many hands, because it is of many hands, of diversity that is made the school, precisely because the government understood, and well, that for the design of this plan it was necessary to hear. To implement this plan, the Government decided to dialogue and promote hearings to students, teachers, directors, experts, psychologists, NGOs (non-governmental organizations), representatives of the various sectors of education, former ministers of education. But this plan is also the result of a working group created for this purpose, consisting of experts with very different profiles. We know that the plan is ambitious — no one here has denied it — but it is ambitious because the task is of great importance. It is EUR 900 million to give shape to a structured and consistent pedagogical approach, money without which it would not be possible to create the context or the conditions for the effort we have ahead. But it is important that we say, because it is true, that this plan should be reduced only to the means, to the money, and it says very little about what we are discussing here. There are those who make all discussions a discussion about the number of teachers, about the number of operational assistants, about how many works are done or will be done, about how many computers are involved, but this discussion is much more than that.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u72	This discussion is much more than that, because the plan is also much more than that. The plan presents a clear vision of strengthening the autonomy of schools, in the more autonomous management of the calendar, in the more flexible management of classes, and the much money comes, too, together with many pedagogical measures proposed, as the structure of the plan itself demonstrates. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in good rigour, this plan presents us three axes. The first is about what we want to do with learning, the second is about the means for this to be possible and the third is about how we can evaluate and monitor the results of the policies implemented. However, those who follow this debate, who have heard the debate so far, have the idea that a plan of these is just a shopping list. But, Mr Minister, as we have seen in this debate, we know that in this House these discussions always take the same dynamic, the same sequence, the same argument. There are always those who ask for stability, but ask for changes every month; there are always those who ask for more autonomy for schools, but spend the time asking for more rules and guidelines;...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u74	... there are those who say that nothing is their responsibility, but do not hesitate to intervene in matters of the exclusive competence of the government, as, indeed, it has recently happened with the future recruitment regime of teachers; there are those who say that the measures are delayed, even if they comply with the defined timetable; and there are those who think that we always start from zero, saying that nothing has been done, even though the data and reality deny it. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Education is far from being the chaos that insistently tries to pass and much less works as an automatic pilot, so that it can be said, when things go well, that happens independently of the Minister. We know that, in education, it is never all done, so here we are to continue the way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u75	For an intervention, Mrs Cláudia André of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think today's question is: where is the plan? And from what I've heard so far, it seems to me that there's still no plan. We have really heard a lot of entities, we really have heard a lot of opinions, but they turned out to be a PowerPoint. The PSD Parliamentary Group so far only knows a PowerPoint, which is a set of vague ideas, phrases made and formulas more than you spend, equal to those of other documents, which could perfectly fit in the years 2016, 2018 or 2019. A PowerPoint, as I usually say or as I told my dear students, must always have a study, a consolidated and scientific research work, because it only serves to identify a simple message. And, really, it was a simple message that the Minister of Education wanted to pass seven days ago: a PowerPoint that announces 900 million euros and then puts a series of contents, but no one can fully understand where the millions are and where they are going to be spent. One thing is right: on the last page, we realize that 670 million are for equipment. And these equipment should have come along the mandate of the Minister of Education, which is long, because it has never been so long any other mandate of another minister of education since 25 April, or even earlier. Therefore, since Mr. Minister « queen » in this Ministry of Education, they should have arrived in September 2020, as announced, and should have arrived in January 2021, when the students were confined. But no, the equipment will come now and take out, of the 900 million euros, 770 million for equipment and fittings. That is, for support in schools, in fact, there are just over 240 million euros left, and these 240 million euros mean, then, 143 € per student. This study tells us that, simply for student support staff, we have € 140 per student for the next school year. What's more interesting is that the New University study that went out in March tells us that only Portuguese and Mathematics tutors would have needed 240 million euros, which means at least 422 euros per student. That is why Mr Minister, who has not yet been able to make a diagnosis of all the years of schooling, who does not yet know that there have been losses, contrary to what he says, and who is very concerned about the losses of students, but has not yet been able to measure these losses, I have something to ask him: why, Minister? Why can't you have an effective plan, a real diagnosis? And why is it still announced for social communication seven days before having a plan that tells us exactly, with exhaustion, everything that you have concluded, after the hearing of such noble figures, that they are, I have no doubt? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u77	Even during the PSD, Mr António Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As for Plan 21 23 School +, the announcement of measures and resources is still a joke. from our point of view, there is nothing more than a plan to consolidate unmet promises, proposals and numbers to deceive the most indecisive ones. Your PowerPoint does not quantify resources, both human and material, or even calendar them. EUR 900 million is announced. Question : to be spent where? With what students? What kind of autonomy? On what priorities? For one or two years of schooling? We don't know. We know that in Axis 1, "Teaching and Learning" you well announce 37 specific actions and 18 recommendations for schools to carry out. But in Axis 2, « Supporting the Educational Communities », where the euro must be invested, you announce only nine specific actions and zero recommendations. Zero! Why? Oh, my God! of the actions, there is one, 'training of teachers', which is only the continuity of the strengthening of the school credit this school year, which we know was insufficient. There is another, requisitioned « digital school », already announced in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) and 15 months after the adoption of the Action Plan for Digital Transition. They proclaim the strengthening of teachers, but they already exist, because they are an increase corresponding to the mandatory binding that the government has to make of the teachers of the norm-work. With or without plan, they would be linked, so this ad smells like mofo and is resuscitated. We welcome the announced decentralization and strengthening of the autonomy of schools, which he spoke about with some genius. But it was your government that set up the Approximar Education programme in 2015, and therefore we lost six years in the process of decentralization of competences. But in this plan, there are no clear and concrete guidelines on strengthening this autonomy. Are you going to put them in the school year's organizational office? In what way? Robusta? With a bribe? There is no word from this Government on the promotion of the attractiveness and appreciation of the career as a teacher, nor a word on initial training, in order to compensate for the high number of retirements in the coming years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u79	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u80	I'm done now, Mr. President. This is the government that has stopped running EUR 7 billion, of which EUR 1250 million have not been used for social support, which has left 17 000 students without remote access to classes, which has left behind about 80 000 students with special educational needs and has left 350 000 students, supported by school social action, practically abandoned.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u81	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u82	It is also strange the silence of the Government in the face of the wounds that have come to the public about serious situations of insecurity and violence in school. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u83	Mrs Alexandra Vieira, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The economic crisis affects students and their families. A study commissioned by the government raised the problem of the impact of economic shortage and housing precariousness on learning. What are the consequences of the study? What part of this investment in education is going to strengthen school social action? On the unaccompanied learnings, the Left Block made three findings, the first being that schools implemented, last year, a recovery plan. It seems, therefore, that there is nothing new in this proposal. Secondly, at the exceptional moment we live, agreeing that there are learnings that may be compromised, there is no intention of revising existing regulations that transform the curriculum into a blanket of flaps, from then on the learning goals and the national exams, which continue in force, in parallel with the Profile of Students at the Exit of Compulsory School and Decree-Law No 55/2018, concerning curriculum autonomy and flexibility. Some are antagonistic and generate deep tensions. Thirdly, they refer to the learning laboratories. Does the Minister mind defining what they are? Are they part of the strategic objective of diversifying teaching strategies? Are these more digital resources? More equipment? Mr Minister, I must say that there are more economical and effective ways of learning. The formula is simple: study visits, leaving the school walls, knowing the environment and the community in which students, museums and monuments are inserted, parks, libraries, protected areas, streets of the city or village, or knowing other cities, interdisciplinary with almost all disciplines and carrying out, directly or indirectly, unaccompanied learning. Without a doubt, the first cycle must be targeted very carefully, but we cannot require children to spend extra hours in recovery. There are other strategies. Pedagogy and didactics indicate them and teachers know them. Will you know that the Minister will also learn to play it? Now, playful and free play have never been as scarce as they are at this moment. The recovery of learning is already taking place, but, in order to be effective, it is very important to reduce the number of students per class and to ensure that there are no mixed classes, so that fewer classes are allowed, for this reason, with fewer students, at least in the first cycle. As for the recommendations for improving the learning of students in Mathematics, since there is already a Mathematics Plan, which already has 280 pages, as a result of a study commissioned by the Ministry of Education itself, what is its relevance? What does this plan add to recommendations for improving learning in Mathematics? We have already left a warning: if a student repeatedly fails to discipline, is the problem his or her problem or is it the discipline? Why, as presented, must it be the student to attend the discipline in the previous year? Besides the organizational difficulty that this will bring to schools, it is little pedagogical, not to say psychologically unpleasant. Investment in equipment and infrastructure is necessary and urgent. The Left Block has been defending him for a long time. However, this need should not hide another, equally urgent, but even more: the fierce lack of investment in human resources, which we believe remains the most fragile part of this plan, as well as of the whole educational system, for which no concrete and structural measures are seen in the direction of its resolution. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u85	Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u86	Mr President, Minister for Education and the rest of us. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there were already insufficient human resources — we have been talking about this today, and it is consensual, which has caused the start of a path to reduce the number of students by class, although it is clearly insufficient, dragged and delayed by the government — now, given the last two years, it is too urgent that this path be resumed and deepened. Because it is a right for students to be closely monitored and dedicated to their learning process and because it is necessary to give the teachers conditions in order to fulfil their indispensable role, the government has to make commitments. The COVID-19 showed the worst way that the student-teacher interaction is central. With so much that he stayed behind, with this deep scar, one cannot insist on a formula of megaturms, which was already bad before, as now! Clearly, having smaller classes, reducing the number of students per class, must be a priority at this stage. For that, teachers are needed. That's indisputable. More teachers, valued teachers are needed, treated appropriately. It is necessary to link those who are and, to that end, eliminate the requirements, such as the norm-work, which prevent this linkage and condemn thousands of teachers and educators to precariousness. But more teachers are needed for classes with fewer students, and students with more follow-up. Even with regard to teachers, in a context where we need both these professionals and their motivation, will the government correct the injustice of not considering the complete and incomplete schedules in internal mobility? Will it put an end to the injustice that diverts teachers from the incomplete hours of access to social benefits? These are very concrete questions. There is no recovery of learning, there is no reduction in the effects of COVID-19 if no investments and priorities are taken, and the school is one of them. There is no question of what is happening strictly in the classroom; it is necessary, as will be necessary, to strengthen the level of educational action assistants, administrative and specialized technicians. With a challenge like what we have in front of us, we cannot have a public school working with the minimum. This means you have to hire the employees who are missing, yes. Is the government going to make progress on this in particular? What will be done with non-teaching workers contracted with the COVID-19 contract? Are they going to be integrated? They're doing permanent needs, aren't they? It's obvious. So, what are we going to do about your hiring mode? With regard to specialized technicians, such as psychologists, so essential in the times we live, if the DGAE ( Directorate-General of School Administration) has not authorised the six-month mechanism, arguing that the employer is the same body of the Public Administration, how do they plan to ensure the continuity of work and the stabilization of these specialized technicians? Hearing this debate makes us think. When the students are unable to monitor and progress in the matter, and the teacher cannot have time to devote exclusively to it, when the therapist is missing, all the work done is questioned. When students are with exponential depressive and anxious pictures and there is no psychologist, it is not the lyric of the minister or the citations of the Socialist Party that will be worth these students. So they need means. That is what we have been saying, and that is what we want the Minister to commit himself to. Mr. Minister boasts a 20% increase since 2015 in school social action, among other issues that he is quoting from us. All right, but in 2020 there was a pandemic in the world and in our country as well. This created new needs, and for an exceptional situation, exceptional measures are needed. It seems that the government does not want to hear this, but it will have proof of the consequences of its lack of investment ahead, and these will be much more palpable and far more serious than it lacks. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u87	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this round, I would like to talk about the Budget, about these 900 million euros announced, because once again I needed more information to understand exactly what we are talking about. A short time ago, when the PRR was discussed, a set of measures were presented largely overlapping to those presented now, and still well. It's a sign of consistency, of course. But unfortunately, the aggregates do not match, so the comparison becomes complicated. Otherwise, we saw: in the PRR there was for investment in the digital area an amount of EUR 599 million, with an execution schedule up to 2025, saying that many of the targets were expected to be completed in 2026. Now, for two academic years, a plan of EUR 900 million appears, which is supposed to be complete in 2023. Another good example is the production of digital educational resources, which in the PRR is scheduled for the last quarter of 2025 — according to the plan I had access to it — but now says that they will be made by 2023. I would like to make it clear on the various documents that are presented to us, because, in fact, I would like to say again, on such an important subject, it was good for us to have clear information. I don't know who you are, who runs it, whether it's intentional or not, but right now, I know I can't evaluate exactly what's going to be invested and how. It is clear that of these EUR 900 million, EUR 670 million is the so-called capital investment. It is appropriate not to add oranges with apples. Capital investment is the one that we do in infrastructures — routers, wi-fi, computers of September 2020, all that is capital investment. And then there is operational investment, which is EUR 43, EUR 5 million for teacher training, which was also planned in some way in the PRR ; EUR 47, EUR 3 million for digital resources, such as the PRR appears in 2025 ; and then EUR 140 million for human resources in two years. Already here was asked by the PCP and the Block, and I ask the question perhaps with a slightly different look: are these human resources hired directly by schools, as Mr. Secretary of State has already arrived as a hypothesis in an interview with the Public? They are hired two years and then they are bound or will no longer be necessary, because they were for specific tutorials and evaluation-CL will be, at the end of that period, whether or not they are necessary to continue? The question is that, from operational investment, of the EUR 335 million — such 125 million coming this year, plus the 215 million now appearing, excluding capital investment — we do not know whether this is much or if it is little, because we do not know exactly how they will be applied, whether they will be applied in the recovery itself, which was their goal, or whether they will be applied to do what the government has not done in other years, such as 50 pre-school rooms, or semi-annually, things that have already come back. So what I want to know - and the question is very clear - is the following: what is the Minister committed to in 2023? It's like our economy, bring it back to 2019, and our students will be at 2019 levels? Or will you take them forward and develop to the level at which they should actually be in 2023 with a growth in terms of educational success?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u89	Mrs Bebiana Cunha, from the PAN Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we would like to insist on a question which we have already left in the first round and which relates to the review of programme contents. We would like to know whether the Ministry of Education will be behind this review of learning, on the path that should be made at the level of focus on essential learning, or whether it will hide in the hat of the autonomy of schools. Mr Minister, in his speech, said precisely that one of the pillars is inclusion, which, of course, we have already welcomed, but the inclusion needs to come out of the paper. Therefore, at this level, I would like to leave you here a number of questions, even because, as mentioned in the document — and well — the people most affected by this socio-economic crisis are, of course, the most vulnerable, more fragile people and, therefore, with regard to these people, there are a number of issues that need to be guarded as regards the beginning of next school year. One of the questions concerns whether the Ministry of Education will anticipate the transport problems of these socio-economically more vulnerable children and repeat, for administrative reasons and financial reasons, every school year. One aspect that is also mentioned in this document is the flexible management of classes, with the aim of assigning to schools the possibility of reducing the number of students per class. What we would like to know is how the Ministry of Education will effectively ensure this flexible management of classes, how it will ensure this support to schools. When, in the document, we talk about generalizing school and vocational guidance, we want to know what it means, whether we talk about industrialization of school and vocational guidance or whether we talk about a specialization, more means, more resources and people who can intervene as soon as possible, because we all know the importance of school and professional guidance to be done in a longitudinal perspective. And because we talked about longitudinal intervention and we talked about inclusion, I could not fail to mention here that, for example, a deaf child, two years old, at this time cannot attend bilingual education of deaf children in order to start learning Portuguese gestual language. That is, at the moment, deaf children cannot be supported by early intervention, because professionals do not dominate the gestural language and do not know how to communicate with them. And what we have to reflect here is that these families need to wait up to the age of three years for their children to be able to have access to the beginning of learning this language and, of course, no one can expect their son or daughter to complete three years of age to start communicating with him. Therefore, this is one of the aspects that we want to know if it will be resolved, along with the necessary bag of gestal-language interpreters that parents and deaf mothers need to be able to accompany their educators in their school course.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u91	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The debate on the preparation of the new school year must be made of answers to old problems, but also of new elements and approaches. Faced with the limitations of their families and the inadequacies of schools, which sometimes achieve little more than « look at children», many studies point to the growth of motor difficulties by children and young people. During the most restricted periods of confinement, recreation was prevented from students. For the future, will the school have activities to pull students for recreation? Will physical education classes be assured from the earliest ages? Are there structural conditions? Are there teachers in sufficient numbers? More sport, more street. Is the government available for this dimension? Mr Minister, on a proposal from the Greens in the State budget for 2021, the study and replacement of the energy systems of schools was approved by others more sustainable. How is this measure being implemented? There are thousands of students who go cold in the winter and cannot stand the heat in the summer, even if schools spend the same or more than they could spend on the fact that systems are obsolete. And here too, the government has the means to respond to this need, only if it does not want to. In addition to the pandemic, there is a chronic disease, which is that of the disqualification of successive governments in relation to public school. How much has he planned to spend on recovering the schools that are degraded, which call into question the working conditions for professionals and, above all, the learning conditions? Every day we continue to hear complaints from students, teachers and educators, and there is still much to be done—this is the conclusion that can be drawn. Finally, the Greens consider that this is the time to promote changes. Citizens should understand the importance of preserving nature and environmental education should make a contribution in this regard. Few are the educational institutions that can have spaces of environmental experimentation. And few are the ones that provide direct and regular contact opportunities with nature to their students, a practice that would contribute to better environmental citizenship. In addition, there are few curricular approaches to environmental matters and sustainable development, which should be areas-wide of curricula, taking into account that the survival of humanity, the planet and its ecosystems depend on the profound understanding of a new relationship between human beings and nature. One of the designs of environmental literature is not only the development of responsible individual attitudes and behaviours, but also that society has citizens able to participate collectively, in order to study, understand, suggest, denounce, alert and demand appropriate policies to preserve the environment and progress, towards sustainable development. The question is whether the Government is available for this work. [[Congrats from PCP MP Alma Rivera.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u93	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, you have not answered two questions, which I would like to stress again. First, with regard to computers, we hope that it will not happen what happened last year, which only on 31 December ordered computers that they had promised in March. So the question is very simple: will we or will we not have computers this year, when the pandemic comes back— hopefully not — getting worse? About the failure of school, he said nothing again today. I remind you that in the latest data we know — as you like so much — only 44, 16% of the students successfully completed the secondary school. It's a shame for your Ministry, it's you who said it too. What will you do next year to keep this from happening? of the various school groups that were analyzed, 376 had at least one student with one lead analyzed and revealed. What will you do about it, since you have EUR 900 million to spend? Finally, Mr Minister, I could not fail to reply to the following: I am not playing with 25 April, Mr Minister, I am playing with those who, at a time of pandemic, in which many families see their incomes enlarged or annihilated, at a time when many companies have to close and many establishments have to fail, the government throws out a resolution, on a hidden day and on a hidden night, to create three bodies, with drivers, technical support, 12 people, and with someone earning €4600 per month— €4600 per month! — for a celebration that will last one day. Explain that to the Portuguese people who are out there, which is what they want to know! Instead of playing games on April 25 and nail to the chest...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u95	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u96	I will now finish, Mr President. Instead of playing games on April 25 and nail to the chest, it challenges him to explain this. Explain how someone will win €4600 per month, for five years, for a one-day celebration on April 25! Explain that! Good luck, and here we will be to see what the Portuguese find out about your explanation!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u97	You have the floor by the Government, Minister of Education, Tiago Brandão Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u98	Mr President, I am replying to the various Members. Ladies and gentlemen who have asked questions. The PPD/PSD Parliamentary Group brings here the PowerPoint I used to present this plan. The PPD/PSD Parliamentary Group has, like the other parliamentary groups, received a document which we wanted to bring to the parliamentary groups; it is the same document that is being sent to all those we are listening to. I don't know if Mrs Cláudia André knows this document, she should know. If you don't know him, it's a shame. This PowerPoint, says Mrs. Member, could be any plan that happened in 2016 or 2018. I believe that if we had had a pandemic, many of them would also be in line with our public policies. What I can tell you, Mrs. Member, is that this plan could never have appeared between 2011 and 2015 because it is so far from what was the wager in the education of the government of your party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Because he does not speak in early segregation, because he ends up bringing vocational education to the first line, because he really understands where inclusion should be, because he speaks in the National Education Strategy for Citizenship — see there, Mrs Deputy! [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]] But the honourable Member, with these school years and with this time as a Member, has already said words like 'diagnosis', said it is important to measure — imagine yourself alone! Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to take a look, and we are doing so. We know that, hardly — I am sure — in this respect, if the PPD / PSD were government, if I were to talk about citizenship, there would be nothing to talk about inclusion. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Deputy spoke about her dear students. I regret that, apparently, I did not say, as you say and believe, to your dear students that democratic criticism—because it is important that it is so— being legitimate and absolutely necessary, even more in this House, it is also appropriate that you be honest, Mrs. Deputy, and preferably informed and not just an account to divide false and false. The honourable Member brings here a set of elements and apparently does not have the history, for example, of our budget. Madam Member — because our budget programme is public and well known — in 2015, the budget programme of education, which was not our responsibility, had EUR 5643 million. at the moment, in 2021, we have an additional EUR 1374 million, plus 25 %, Mrs Deputy. At the bottom we have exceeded EUR 7 billion and exceeded all fiscal years since 2011. [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]] Madam Member, I think your students would certainly be sad about this selective memory of your teacher. And I'm sure it's very dear of these students. But I also believe, Mrs Deputies, that after your colleague tried to explain that the 900 million was equal to zero, there is a confusion and a lack of agreement in this dance and stage, and it was important that you had some connection. Mrs Deputy, speaking on behalf of your colleague Mr António Cunha, is quite jolly the way in which you come here to present the questions related to the learning recovery plan. [[PSD protests.]] With regard to the issues brought to us by the CFP, I would like to say, Mrs Alma Rivera, that this plan is even exceptional. It is because of the exceptional times we live in that we have a plan of this nature. The public education and education network — the honourable Member knows, and I have already said so in my first intervention — has linked, since 2016, 9000 teachers to whom 2400 will be added in this school year. If it is true that the PPD/PSD Parliamentary Group has confused the new human resources with the norm-work, which, in fact, fought, which was five years old, and which, together with the parliamentary left, we were able to spend for three years in any recruitment group. You have to say it and say hello to our left. It must also be said that in this same period — and the honourable Member seems to have forgotten — we have been allowed to hire 12 000 operational assistants, technical assistants, technical experts, most of whom are already in our schools, because it has now been authorized to 5000, as you know, many of whom are already in our schools. We must also say that we must continue to work so that we can indeed have this set of measures with these additional human resources that we have had. The set of measures in this plan is based on a set of public policies that we have discussed with the CFP. We have done so for a long time also with the Left Block and I fear that in a very collaborative process, with the Greens and the PAN Ecological Party, which has also been an attentive listener and an attentive participant in educational policies. And because you were asking, it must be said that this plan covers, because it has to cover a set of short, medium and long-term measures, and that is how it has to be. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa asked about human resources. Human resources will be hired by the school. Teachers will be hired by schools, since hourly credits will be given. On the other hand, all others, such as those who are, for example, specialized technicians, will be hired through schools, with the instruments that exist, which are fast enough. One certainty: the teaching resources will be available before the beginning of the school year, since schools ask for them in July, as they did last year. The NAP talks about the importance of inclusive education, and about this I wanted to say something very clear. in this plan, we doubled the human resources allocated to the coordinator teams. We have more specialized technicians, we have more inclusion, we have more training and, as regards curriculum references, we also have clear curricular guidelines for pre-school education, the profile of students, essential learnings and the national strategy of education for citizenship. On this last point, I would also like to draw the attention of the ENP to the following: it is true that we need to have infrastructure improvements and that is why we have made more than 1000 interventions since 2015 in our schools. When the NAP and ENP Members tell us about the importance of citizenship, speaking in the environment and on all these issues, I would like to remind you that we have recently launched the Gandhi Education Award for Citizenship, which will focus this year on animal welfare and which would appreciate that they could see, and on the other hand, the Green Youth Commitment, which was launched this year and translates into a commitment of young people to the future that affects environmental sustainability, climate action, giving voice to youth to realize this change we want, at this time. With your permission, Mr President, I call on Mr Under-Secretary of State and Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u99	Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Education, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to clarify a dimension which I think has gone through in this debate without having a clear vision of what is at stake when we talk about autonomy. In fact, it is necessary to see what has been the way of the autonomy of schools in curriculum management in recent years. More than 10 years ago, we had a first generation of self-government contracts. Except in 2014, we had a second generation of self-government contracts, which were made, as you know, very quickly and in a perspective of autonomy which was the so-called 'autonomy with points', in which the school has autonomy, but: (a) it cannot do this; (b) it cannot do that; (c) it cannot do that... We had an incomprehensible hourly credit formula, in which the high government said 'one hour for this', 'half hour for that', 'two hours for that' and 'only hourly credit according to the results of the examinations', because the hourly credit was not to work, it was a prize rather than being a work tool. Now, what we did, in 2015 / 2016, was treat the hourly credit formula as a place of decision-making autonomy of schools for the promotion of measures according to their intention, with their curriculum and pedagogical option. Secondly, we started with the National School Success Promotion Program, inviting schools to define their own curricular support measures. This was done in the same year that we did the Pilot Project of Pedagogic Innovation. A year later, we were piloting the project of autonomy and curriculum flexibility, which brought to law in 2018, which extended to public schools a prerogative that existed only for the private, which is to have 25 % free management of their curriculum. The following year, in 2019, we approved the portfolio of innovation plans, which extend to all schools, through the presentation of a plan, the possibility of having more free and innovative curricular management measures. What we are now doing is saying that they do not need to use this door to implement many measures of proven effectiveness. in this sense, I thank Mr António Cunha for being the first to say that, in curricular measures alone, we have 37 specific actions. Therefore, it is not a general plan, it is a plan of measures that are already developed by schools. More, for each of them, for each educational policy measure, it is enough to consult everything that has been made available. We have monitoring reports, efficiency indicators, efficiency indicators. That is what we want to deepen during this plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u101	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u102	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are not talking about generalities, we are talking about a strengthened confidence in schools, with means for them to happen and with evidence given through experiences authorized here and there and that we now generalize all schools. This is what we want. A more free system, more capable of finding solutions, because, contrary to what goes through here, schools are capable, and therefore deserve this trust from the Ministry of Education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u103	What about April 25th?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u104	We are moving to the closing stage of the debate. For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Education, Mr. Tiago Brandão Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Andre Ventura, as regards 25 April, this House knows well what it means on 25 April, always. And it is a shame for a single Member not to be able to read a single statistic. That's, yeah, it's a shame. I would like to understand what kind of solidarity you or your party have made for the people who suffer and who fills their mouths in this House. What I can tell you, Mr, is that there is a big difference between this stage and the stages where you often shout « shame ». The Portuguese know exactly what that difference is. With regard to this plan, what I wanted to say to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, what we've seen here is to take account. I have done so over these years, and it is important to be able to listen to the Assembly of the Republic as well. We know that we will come here shortly for the regimental hearing. Fortunately, we will also, exceptionally, come to talk about this plan, the request of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, to whom I would like to thank. Next week it will be to cement and density again, if this plan matches, with the auditions we will have. We will listen to the directors, we will listen to those who represent the teachers, we will necessarily hear all those who are part of the ongoing dialogue with the Ministry of Education — the National Council of Education, the Council of Schools and other representatives, such as the representatives of the parents and those in charge of education. It is important for us to be able to solidify this hearing and that all the processes in which this team is involved can take place in this way, listening, as much as it does, since it is apparently complex to be able to open up to all educational communities, as we have done, through the CFEE, to all the pedagogical councils of all ungrouped groups and schools, so that we can obtain information. Apparently, it does work to talk to our students, but we want to do it. Apparently, it does work with experts, in particular those who are known with other political fronts than those who support this government, but we want to do it and it was highly profitable and fruitful. So we will continue to do this and we will continue now with the presentation of this plan, which has been done and will continue to be done with the educational communities to give new elements so that, through human resources, we will make this attachment which is fundamental. We cannot say again that we have the school of the past, the school of the 19th century, that our school apparently does not modernize and that at the time we have more resources than those we have managed to raise during the last six State budgets, it seems a disgrace we have presented a plan of EUR 900 million. It's a word that means more training, it's a word that means more educational resources, it's a word that means more infrastructure attachment and it's a word that, above all, represents more human resources for our schools. I would therefore like to thank the Assembly of the Republic for having had the opportunity to come here and discuss this plan. It is important for society to do so and it is also important to say—and this is not just an impression, it is a conviction that I have—that schools are much more calmer and that they have a better understanding of the plan than any part of this Hemicycle, which so many times wanted to create noise, but did not really try to understand what was presented on the World Day of the Child. The schools, in their wisdom, in their understanding, but also in their autonomy, have been able to understand what was going on that day, what was previously heard and how guardianship was responding to the anxieties, all needs and, above all, to the great aspirations of our schools to continue — I say again — to work with our students so that this work is actually done in each group of each of our municipalities, in each school not grouped, in each class and, above all, with each one of our children, regardless of their condition of departure. This is something we can never forget. Less than 20 years ago, we had 45% drop out of school. Today we have in the first quarter of 2021 numbers 6, 5 %. So much we talked about rankings, so much we looked at the rankings, but we can never forget that in 2002 these 45% never got to take tests, so the blind performance of these same rankings from each of our schools ended up demonstrating only a part of our educational communities. Fortunately, many of these young people now do not give up, many of these families are in school until compulsory schooling is completed. Therefore, the public school is happy to continue to do what it has to do: integrate all, train all and educate each of our students. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u106	In order to close the debate, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to say a greeting to the entire educational community which, during recent times, has been difficult, made a huge effort to direct and ensure the best of the public school for students — teachers, specialist technicians, educational, administrative action assistants, parents and, of course, students. This time of epidemic we live has also shown the importance of public school to combat inequalities and to ensure the right to education for all. [[PCP applause.]] In good time, the CFP Parliamentary Group marked the debate on the preparation of the next academic year. We identify the problems faced by public school and present solutions for its resolution. in this debate, we raised several questions that were left unanswered. In the face of specific problems affecting public school, its workers and students, the government does not take the necessary steps to ensure that the next school year begins in full normality. Construct a narrative that no longer goes from empty words without any correspondence to reality. During the debate, we learned that, after all, there is no recovery plan for learning! If the plan is not yet completed, what was the intention of the Government to announce it since it does not yet exist? This merely confirms the evaluation that the CFP made in the debate, that is, for the Government to do what it does, what has been presented is not just generalist announcements. Schools don't need generalist ads, they need to know what they're counting on now. It will not be in September, when the classes are starting, that will be the time to prepare the strategies for learning recovery. On the timetable and implementation of the measures, nothing has been clarified. In order for schools to be able to find the strategies best suited to the specific reality and needs of each student in order to recover delays and combat failure and dropout, they need to be equipped with the necessary human and material resources. of the 900 million that Mr Minister has mentioned several times today, under this learning recovery plan, only 140 million are addressed to workers, which is a cause for concern, when the increase in the number of workers is a priority. As for the other investments you mentioned in this debate, we hope that they will not once again pass a compromise without realisation, like the computers that are still coming. The reduction in the number of students per class allows adequate pedagogical follow-up of students by teachers, essential for the recovery of delays and for the existence of learning conditions. But there is no reference on this. In order to ensure that there is no need for educational, administrative or technical assistants in the next school year and that all classes have teachers in all disciplines, it is now necessary to take action in this regard. It is necessary to hire the necessary educational and administrative action assistants, to integrate them into a career with a public bond, ending the precariousness and unacceptable hourly hiring. It is necessary to strengthen the hiring of teachers, link them and combat the precariousness that affects thousands of these professionals, many with 10 or more years of service. Measures must be taken to combat the lack of teachers, as the CFP proposes, in particular by strengthening the hourly credit, in accordance with the needs signalled by schools, the possibility of schools completing hours and the allocation of accommodation and travel supplements. It is also necessary to hire the necessary specialist technicians and also to integrate them into a career, combating the precariousness that affects them. Ensuring the right to education and equality in school access and success for all students is the strengthening of effective investment in inclusive school, the strengthening of school social action, the advance in the freeness of educational material following the freeness of school textbooks, the establishment of multidisciplinary teams, the investment in school park, in particular in the construction and requalification of schools, in the construction of sports pavilions, in schools that do not yet have this equipment, in the modernization of equipment and in the fitting with school and didactic material. The government not only does not fully respond to the problems that persist in public school, as it intends to transfer them to the authorities. The process of transfer of competences in the area of education to the authorities, in addition to setting up a deresponsibility of the government, does not guarantee the universal and constitutional right to education, thus no longer having an education policy to change to 278 education policies, conditioned to the financial capacity of each of the authorities. But, as I was saying, in addition to setting up a de-responsibility, it is a real process of transferring charges to the authorities, without ensuring the conditions and means for the exercise of these powers. Mr Minister, let me tell you, being patriotic and left-wing is not a matter of speech, it is a matter of practice. However, we note that in this debate, the Minister recognises that it is the patriotic and left-wing policy that the CFP advocates that it has solutions for the valorisation of public school and the valorisation of its workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u108	We have thus reached the end of our first item on the agenda. We move on to the following point, which consists in the general discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 92 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Civil Procedure Code, the regulatory rules of the horizontal property regime, the procedure for fulfilling the emerging monetary obligations of contracts of value not exceeding the height of the court of 1. the Court and the Code of the Building Registry. For an intervention, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Agile and efficient justice is a fundamental pillar of community life. It regulates tensions and social conflicts, guarantees the defence of rights, freedoms and guarantees, helps to create value and reduce inequalities and is a catalyst for innovation, transformation and development. Thus, the effectiveness of justice assumes a dimension of value and a structural principle of the rule of law, even considering the Constitutional Court that the requirement of procedural speed integrates the core of the interests protected by the Constitution. Until the current pandemic crisis, the judicial system had very positive productivity levels, as a result of a whole series of reforms that have been implemented. But today we have a great deal of pressure on the courts that have worked at a much lower rate than normal in the last 15 months because of the health measures adopted and the exceptional suspension of the legal deadlines. However, the number of processes entered will continue to increase, especially in areas that have greater connections to the economic and social consequences of the pandemic. If we don't do anything, we'll have accumulated expectations again. In order for justice to meet the challenges and needs, we must continue to bet, with added determination, on the only possible path: rationalization and organizational modernization, simplified procedures, more leadership and better management. The deepening of the process of digital transformation is a fundamental axis of this strategy, but the imperatives of change are not exhausted here, because the effectiveness of justice is also played in other structural plans, as is the case, above all, with the laws of process. Identifyed the main factors of blocking and loudness, with the proposed law we present here, we aim to expedite the processing, eliminate redundant, useless or worthless acts, suppress non-essential interventions and clarify some points that generate doubts and judicial disputes that are based on many resources for the higher courts. at the same time, we were concerned not to compress procedural guarantees respecting all the fundamental principles of the legal order. the whole of this bill, which also amends certain rules of the Code of the Predial Register, of the horizontal property regime and of the regime annexed to Decree-Law No 269 / 98, would highlight the following measures: the regime of expert evidence is expedited in situations where the judge, after the articulated, may know the merits of the case or should appreciate dilatatory exceptions; the obligation to hold prior hearings is limited to cases where the parties have not had an opportunity to rule on such matters. This avoids non-essential deliberations and displacements to courts that should be limited to what is necessary, especially in a pandemic setting. On this point, however, it should be clarified that the judge may always call this matter if he considers it necessary or appropriate. There is also the possibility of a prior hearing waiver when its purpose is only the final hearing programming and, in order to avoid the unjustified drag of the process, it cannot take place more than once. For the same reason, the attempt to reconcile is limited, preventing in particular that it may be suspended or carried out more than once. The limit of three witnesses for each fact is enshrined, without prejudice to the fact that they may be further investigated if the judge considers it necessary, and it is certain that the generality of the legal systems gives the judge the possibility to provide evidence of the facts already sufficiently clarified. The possibility of witnesses giving written testimony shall be encouraged and extended, in particular in the case of the parties. It is a model widely used in other systems, particularly in France, with recognised advantages at the level of speed, but which, among us, has had very residual use. In cases of less complexity, the sentence may be summarily substantiated and dictated to the ata. As regards resources, among other aspects, the applicant's burden on the de facto decision is clarified and the rapporteur's judge is recognised as having the power to decide in the first place whether the applicant does not identify in a convincing way the error in the assessment of the evidence. The rapporteur is also given the power to decide in summary whether the appeal is manifestly unfounded or when the matter has already been judged in a uniform and repeated manner. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting ourselves in this House with strong convictions but without dogmatism, with the greatest respect for different points of view and with an open and flexible attitude towards all contributions that can improve such an important diploma for the country. The quality of justice is a task of all of us, political leaders, judicial administration, forum professionals, universities and community in general. This is a task which is not easy and which everyone calls upon us, for change always comes before the old conceptual frameworks, those which ultimately aim to change. In the context of the collective effort that we have the responsibility to develop, I trust that a healthy and in-depth democratic debate will not fail to translate into the necessary consensus. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u110	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, the pandemic has broad backs and serves to justify a lot of things, but to justify a fundamental reform of the civil process, it seems to me, in fact, that anything is excessive. what we are dealing with is a proposal, that is, a fundamental reform of the civil process, with a remarkable dimension. But to say that all of this has to do with the shortage of response and the difficulties resulting from the pandemic, with all honesty, seems to me that this is a justification without great credibility. That is why the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is finally trying to solve a problem by trying to correct this step in a false way by allowing the proposal to go down to committee without a vote. It's the way you found to avoid a really embarrassing situation. The general orientation of this diploma is clearly, in fact, as the Secretary of State had the opportunity to say right now, to remove procedures and moments of intervention from the parties that Mr. Secretary of State classified as superfluous — the adjective was not exactly this, but it was around this. This abolition of forms of participation by the parties in the civil process is intended to be defined as a process of parties. Therefore, this must be evaluated with great caution, with great caution and this should be our objective. The justification given by the Government, as Mr Secretary of State has already done, is that it is intended to combat dilatory records. We certainly need to do so, we do not have the least of the reservations regarding this, except one, which makes us here with renewed attention to this initiative: it is that sometimes by deleting dilatious files, injustice factors are introduced in the process and that we must avoid. I will give three brief examples resulting from the bill. First of all, with regard to the amendments made to the expert evidence regime, I would like to stress that this preference expressed by the Government for qualified non-judicial verification, from our point of view, at least introduces a very significant risk of inequality between the parties. There are those people who have the greatest economic fragility and who do not, even with the judicial support mechanism, have the ability to pay a specialist to be the evaluator, in some way, the certifier of their argument. The first aspect is, moreover, another issue, which is precisely to introduce public utility entities as important elements, with very high risks of non-exemption. Secondly, with regard to the attempt to reconcile, we must combat attempts at dilating conciliation, certainly, but the problem is that by restricting the pre-hearing phase, not only will orality be killed, as it will affect, in practice, the attempt to reconcile. The third example, among many others, is precisely that of the oral proliferation of sentences for so-called « low-density actions ». The low density for the Government is certainly the highest of the intensity for a large number of people who cannot have actions other than low intensity, for the Government's criteria. Therefore, the duty of foundation and intelligibility of sentences is, in these cases, the highest intensity, the highest density. Finally, I believe that 4 minutes to evaluate this proposal is manifestly little, and that is why the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group did well to bring this proposal down to committee without a vote, because this will allow a stopped work. Here we will be for that purpose. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u112	Mrs Monica Quintela from the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the midst of the noise of diplomas relating to the fight against corruption, here comes a proposal from the Government to amend several legal diplomas among which, in depth, the Civil Procedure Code, which is the master of our legal order. It is based on the explanatory statement presented that the changes are intended to recover the reduction in the activity of the courts caused by the restrictions inherent to COVID-19. The proposal for a law is compounded and it is found that the reasons put forward by the Government do not translate into the text presented. This is highlighted by the rule on the application of the law over time, which expressly states that the proposed regime applies only to proceedings initiated from the date of its entry into force and not to pending proceedings. Therefore, it is not intended to restore expectations nor even to a transitional regime. As Mr José Manuel Pureza said — not to repeat it — I would say otherwise — the COVID-19 serves everything, it is a bottomless bag. This proposal has marked the defeat of the government in combating the delays of the courts in a fair and fair manner for the citizens, turning it into adventurous solutions, reversing the rules of the previous Civil Procedure Code, importing practices from other legal systems, mixing everything into an explosive cocktail of success more than doubting, which is not compatible with the need for certainty and legal certainty. I recall that the current Civil Procedure Code entered into force on 1 September 2013 and is by the authority of the PSD Government, which created a working committee to carry out the reform of the civil process, debating in depth the entropies of the system. This reform introduced new rules for the management and processing of proceedings, such as the requirement of prior hearing, with a view to identifying the object of dispute and announcing the subject matter of proof, eliminating the educational basis. This means that the subjects of proof, the cornerstone of the process, are intended to allow the discussion of the dispute to be widely held, with a view to covering all matters with interest in the decision of the cause. It is, therefore, with concern that the PSD sees some of the proposals put forward that not only distort the current civil procedural structure, but also constitute dangerous innovations imported from the common law of the United States and that do not have fit in our legal practice. In this respect, we see the very good proposal for admission of testimony in writing before a notary and without the agreement of the parties, which we can only call "true aberration" or "deep ignorance" of what is a trial. It is good to see that a statement provided in this way, without observance of the contradiction and without immediateness or orality, does not contribute to procedural speed and the parties will not dispense with their presenceal testimony in the hearing of discussion and judgment. It is also concerned at the proposal for an oral extension of sentences, which Mr. Secretary of State mentioned here, with direct reference to the articulates, and it is obvious that such practice does not allow the court to analyse, as is required, the evidence produced in court with a view to the application of the right to the facts. As a cherry above the cake, irony is being introduced, it is proposed to reduce the appeal period of the matter and then we have oral sentences without justification and, concomitantly, the restriction of the right to appeal. It is also difficult to understand the limitation of the number of witnesses produced by each fact. Mr Secretary of State, as you know, there are no facts anymore but, yes, evidence issues, which are composed of the alleged in the articulated. Among other proposals which cause much concern, it is also noted in the amendment to the expert test regimes, limiting it, and in the scheme of the major accompanying who favours the error in a matter where there is no possibility of error. We must not forget that the civil process is a process of parties, which is the life of people who, on a daily basis, are decided in the courts and that, whether less or more, cannot be decided in any way, on the contrary. It's the legislator's responsibility, it's all of us. Don't forget it. in this assumption and being a structuring diploma of our legal order, the PSD is available to work, with the seriousness and respect that citizens deserve, the changes that improve the current Code, covering the edges that judicial practice has shown, but without embarking on simple solutions, of pseudo-cleaning of procedural delays at the cost of the lives of citizens, with erratic decisions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u115	...in accordance with the mandate given to us by the Portuguese and whose responsibilities we do not ascribe. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u116	Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State and Mr. Members : I would say that it is difficult to do this debate within the four minutes we have for the following reason: if we wanted to say something more in-depth about the content of this bill, we would certainly not be able to reach the four minutes. In the state in which we have this debate and in which it is necessary, indeed, to stop it because it is still starting, I would say that the 4 minutes are up. [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] Clearly, justice must be speedy. Obviously the value of speed is important and we all recognize it, and the exception of the parties in dispute who are also interested in that justice is not speedy, but this is already another issue. It is a goal of the rule of law that justice has speed. The legislative reforms, especially when they are profound, should not be postponed either, but there should be no excessive speed leading to ill-considered reforms which then lead to what we are accustomed to, i.e., successive reforms that will seek to amend mistakes that have been made a short time ago. When we look at the Civil Procedure Code, we see that we have had very frequent reforms and a very frequent hand amendment. In fact, do not say that what motivates this bill is the pandemic, because, in fact, it is not. We are already seeing that the pandemic now serves everything. But what is proposed here, being this approved diploma, has been done all its processing, within and outside this Assembly of the Republic, being promulgated and published, is that it comes into force, according to the Government proposes, 30 days after its publication. This diploma shall apply to proceedings which enter the courts after its entry into force. Well, then the pandemic, we expect, is already coming back a lot, that is, we expect that, by the time this law can come into force, the pandemic is already a bad reminder of the past. Therefore, we are faced with a profound reform of five tens of articles of the Civil Procedure Code. Obviously, we do not reject that it should be discussed, because of course there is a deep proposal that deserves the attention of this House, but without merely signing what the Government is proposing. In fact, the demonstration of this is that even today, at the time we started this debate, we were sent a contribution from the Association of Trade Unions of Portuguese Judges, with 65 pages, in which a very detailed assessment of this legislative initiative is made. In fact, we have already received from the Order of Advocates a significant contribution, with objections, some reasonable ones, others with which we will agree more or less. What is worth mentioning is that we do not reject, on our part, the kindness of amendments to the civil process that can contribute to improving procedural speed but that do not call into question procedural rights, because of course the rules of the civil process have not been invented from nothing and have a justification. When we want to change them we must bear in mind both the justification for their existence and the justification for their change. We do not reject this in any way! We are available for this work, which must be done with due weighting, so by listening to the various judicial agents, the various entities that have to pronounce themselves on this matter. We can say that this legislative process is at the beginning of it, it will do its work and we will make our contribution so that it can get somewhere and actually improve the functioning of justice. That is what we have at our disposal, but we would like to believe that this House cannot dispense with an in-depth debate which, so far, has not had an opportunity to take place. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u118	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Mr António Filipe, if it is not easy in 4 minutes, in 3 it becomes even more difficult, but I will try to say anything about this. Mr. Secretary of State, there is agreement between all the banks that have so far spoken about the content of the reform, but not the method. In fact, this is no method of discussing a reform of this kind, i.e. with a small grid, at the end of the legislative session and the ride or pretext of the pandemic. This is a reform that does not necessarily have to do with the pandemic or which has nothing to do with the pandemic. It is a vast reform, as has been said here, because they are changed around 50 articles of the Civil Procedure Code. It is not, as you say, and well — the Advocates' Order, the counter-reform in relation to 2013 — that is not what is at stake — but it is a significant change. It is sufficient to see that, in fact, the requirement of prior hearing, conciliation is restricted, as I said to us, the limitation of the number of witnesses by fact and, a little bit on the contrary, I would say, of the logic of reform are, at the same time, reintroduced the reply, in the case of exceptions, or even the delay. Therefore, there are also standards here that come a little contrary to the global logic of reform. However, as has been said here, it is a matter that deserves further discussion. I would just like to remind the Secretary of State that, in 2018, and very pre-pandamia, so to speak, the CDS, replying, moreover, to an appeal that existed even to the President of the Republic for a reform of justice, presented here a relatively large set of measures and initiatives, including, Mr Secretary of State - no doubt! — the possibility of immediate and oral judgments, written statements, avoiding the displacement of witnesses, the elimination of the figure of part statements, and can be heard in the logic of the testimonial, the strengthening of the judges in the previous hearing, the amendment of the citation rules, the elimination of the rule allowing hearing delays with the addition of new documents. Mr. Secretary of State, curiously, these proposals of 2018 have been expressed, after the discharge to the committee without a vote, so that in the end they will be plunged, precisely by the Socialist Party which now comes, together with you as Secretary of State, to present some of these ideas to us. Having said this, however, we are not vindictive, nor have we followed any retaliation process. Therefore, it is not because our pre-pandamia proposals have not been welcomed and the Socialist Party and the Government have agreed, with the pandemic, to the need for some of these proposals, that we will now be against them. It will not be by retaliation or by ours that they have not been approved and we will give them, of course, due attention. As I said, there are proposals which, moreover, were consistent with ours and, therefore, we will agree with them. With others, we will not agree, but, in the field of expertise, we will be there to make a reform that is worth reform, until speed is in fact a fundamental objective of our justice system. We cannot spend our lives complaining about the lack of speed and then not want to discuss the rules when they are brought here, obviously with the caution that has been mentioned and with which I agree. We want to discuss, when brought, rules that seek to help this speed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u120	Mrs Joana Sá Pereira of the PS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Citizens are becoming more and more aware that justice, to be good, must be swift justice. For this reason, the system should continue its efforts to make improvements in order to deepen that same speed. We believe that this is even the time to guard up the coming times and, above all, it is time to avoid going back into the good indicators of recovery of procedural expectations and a trajectory that has increased the confidence of citizens in the justice system. We have some difficulty in understanding the PSD's speech on this matter: on the second, fourth and sixth, it seems to complain about the time that the proceedings take place in court, and indeed calls for urgent implementation of some reforms, but then on the third and Thursdays, before proposals aimed at agitating the processes, without jeopardizing security and confidence in the system, the PSD is fiercely indignant. [[Protests by PSD MP Monica Quintela.]] I believe that the PSD must even find a way in this matter, Mrs Deputies, because the purpose of the government in this matter is very clear. On the one hand, agile and, on the other, clarify, to make the administration of justice more rapid and closer to the citizens. We stress the opportunity of this bill and the availability of the Government signalled by the Secretary of State to improve this version. In fact, we will also correspond to this availability with contributions so that we can deepen it. This initiative, as has already been said, aims to amend four structural diplomas of our legal order, of which our Civil Procedure Code stands out, with specific changes in some matters. We will highlight three points to ensure that the importance of this proposal is actually understood. Firstly, with regard to the expert evidence regime, it is proposed, on the one hand, to extend clearly the scope of the competent authorities to carry out them, in particular universities, which, in fact, already do so in the process in a timely and credible manner, in particular through the recognition of letters and signatures—there already exists, and on the other hand, to reserve the collegial expertise only in cases where the special complexity of the process and the knowledge of different matters justify it, thus avoiding, of course, the unjustified disruption of the process which we have been checking. On the other hand, at the international level, the advantages of procedural speed in the use of written testimony and the testimony previously produced in the office of one of the lawyers, which is already provided for in our Civil Procedure Code, are recognized in Articles 517. o is 518. Here too, there is no novelty, Mrs. Monica Quintela, nor any drama.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u122	There's drama, there's drama!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u123	What is intended is only to encourage the use of this means of production of evidence, reducing costs to half, where all the witnesses cast by the parties are concerned until the order marking the final hearing. What is changed, although on a timely basis, in the written statement regime—in fact, in line with what already exists in Decree-Law No 269/98—is the possibility of its use without the need to authorize the judge. This seems very important to us, and it is also allowed, in this proposal, Mrs Deputy, that this statement is, as I said, made in the presence of the notary, and more so, that the judge, informally or the parties' request, can determine its renewal at present. This safeguard therefore also seems to us to be of the greatest importance. The last point we want to highlight in this matter has to do with the principle that it was instituted in 2013, the obligation to hold previous hearings, which, in our understanding, has proved disproportionate, unjustified in many cases. For this reason, we follow the appropriate restriction on the mandatory performance of the hearing and also follow the appropriate extension of the possibility of the previous hearing by the judge, when there is only to schedule the final hearing. I dare say there is no tragedy or drama. What is a very clear purpose is to speed up and simplify processes and, above all, strengthen citizens' confidence in better and faster justice. Moreover, if we really want to reduce inequalities in access to justice, we must have laws without complexities and without loopholes. I am convinced, in conclusion, Mr President, that all the contributions that the parliamentary groups will make in the field of specialty will undoubtedly enrich this diploma. We are available to deepen this discussion, with the technical or legal detail that this matter requires, and therefore we have already called on the committee, without a vote, of this diploma, to enable Parliament to take another step in the construction of efficient justice, a legitimate claim of all citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u124	For the end of this debate, Mr Mário Belo Morgado has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Due to time constraints, it is difficult to address all the issues raised. But in the course of the legislative process it will certainly be possible to accommodate many suggestions and contributions from the different parliamentary groups, such as the democratic and constructive debate. The existence of a certain tension between the requirement of a judicial process without undue delay and other values is not illustrated. The quality of justice is played in different problematic axes, which cross and must be harmonised. Without compressing guarantees and respecting all the great principles of the legal order, we aim for more effective justice, capable of promoting effective equality of arms, accessible and deserving of citizens' confidence. But let us be clear: reforming means changing, to a greater or lesser extent, the existing paradigm, making it evolve in the plan of organization and form, in a logic of continuous adaptation of the model of functioning of institutions to the needs of life and to an increasingly dynamic and vertiginous world. When it really comes time to make reforms, it is often forgotten that the real changes are never dull, harmless and colourless. Yesterday, the new President of the Supreme Court emphasized an old and peaceful diagnosis. He said: "Our Justice still has a strong bureaucratic and guaranteeist pendant, with direct impact on efficiency levels and decision-making times, being killed by a forensic practice in which indifference between useless and essential prevails, which, in addition, has been disabling in orders or sentences whose reading becomes a difficult exercise." Indeed, without granting fundamental principles, the great challenge we will have to win is that of renewing our judicial culture, constantly working on the construction of a paradigm of modernity, centered on objectives and results and shaped by a strategy of simplification and elimination of formalisms and useless acts. We have all the conditions to achieve this and to achieve the desirable broad consensus. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u126	At the end of this debate, we are now moving to the third point of our agenda, with the joint discussion, in general, of the Bill No 93 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Other procedures related to the issue, delivery and use of the citizen's card and the Bill No 854 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Concretizes the right to the citizenship card for persons in a situation without shelter by amending Law No 7 / 2007 of 5 February 2007 and Decree-Law No 135 / 99 of 22 April 2007. I shall begin by giving the floor to the Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration, Alexandra Leitão, for the submission of the bill of law.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The quality and efficiency of public services are today inseparable from their level of digitisation. In Portugal, the Public Administration has led the process of digital transition, working as an accelerator of this transformation in the economy and society and developing increasingly focused responses to the needs of citizens and businesses. The launch of the citizen card, 14 years ago, was one of the biggest examples of this pioneering state services, adding to a single card the information that was dispersed by several documents and associating a series of new attributes to the identification document that were decisive for people's adherence to online public services. In compliance with its Programme, the Government has now proposed several legislative amendments to the procedures relating to the issue, delivery and use of the citizen's card, which will allow for simplifying and agitating interactions with public administration bodies and entities. in this sense, this proposal of law provides that the address is no longer physically included in the integrated circuit of the card, so that it can be changed without the need of the citizen to have a card reader, thus fulfilling the measure of the always updated Simplex Morada program, developed in conjunction with the government area of justice. By contributing to the materialization of the principle of only-once, which aims to prevent citizens and businesses from being obliged to submit the same information to the State several times, this bill provides that the holder of the citizenship card may at any time authorize — and not only when biometric data is collected — the sharing and reuse of these same data. The present bill also provides for the generalization of the possibility of the delivery of the citizen card by post, in the address of its holder, and the diversification of lifting counters, providing that consular posts and sections can also function as delivery services. It also creates the legal framework allowing the activation of the citizenship card using biometry, eliminating the need for face-to-face delivery of the citizen card to enable these certificates, by using safe mechanisms and in accordance with the provisions of the European regulations. The procedure of the citizenship card is thus completely dematerialized from the principle to the end. Another proposed amendment will allow a citizen without a physical postal address to indicate the address of an entity — for example, an authority, social security services or a civil society association — to issue his or her citizenship card. This is a measure of great importance for people living on the street or in precarious situations in transitional accommodation. The bill also proposes to extend the scope of the Professional Attribute Certification System (SCAP), in order to promote its dissemination and scale its benefits in the use of digital, public and private services. In short, what the Government proposes is a set of solutions to simplify the lives of citizens and make the State services more efficient. in all, it is estimated that, adding the various impacts of these changes — displacements and time spent with face-to-face care — it will be possible to obtain a total savings of 287 057 days / year. It is about seven million hours that citizens no longer spend on the various services, which can be done online and in a simplified way, without counting the release of hours of work in the services, which can be applied in the care of those who cannot, or do not want, regardless of presenceal care, or in specialized tasks and of greater added value to the organizations. It should also be pointed out that at no time in the process of simplifying access to public services and the speeding up of the relationship with the State, documentary security and the strengthening of the identity chain were neglected, as well as the inclusion of people with less digital literacy, either through the opening of citizen spaces, or through the multiplication of forms of support in the use of technologies—such as video calls recently implemented on the ePortugal portal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I believe this is a safe step towards the digital transformation of the Public Administration and another important step towards a more modern, competitive and inclusive country. I'll be at your disposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u128	Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to welcome in general the Government's initiative, but we cannot fail to say that in 2021 there are still obstacles to a person who is in a homeless situation, either in access to a citizen's card or in access to the certificate of economic insufficiency, which is for various reasons, the most obvious because he cannot indicate a residence corresponding to the place of habitual residence. We had already signalled it in 2019 and, therefore, today, we are again insisting on proposals to guarantee the rights of people in a situation without shelter, this being accompanied, and well, by the Government, who almost two years later accepts the NAP proposals ; but we are trying to go a little further than the proposals that the Government brings us in this matter to resolve fundamental aspects in the lives of people who are in a situation without shelter or homeless. In 2021, a citizen or citizen in a situation without shelter may only request a certificate of his economic situation if he has the kindness of the services of the parish board where he makes the request, but this attestation of economic insufficiency, unbelievably, has a cost, a price, which is completely incomprehensible, therefore it is necessary to guarantee the freeness of this certificate of economic insufficiency. Without a residence certificate or a certificate of economic status, a person in a situation without shelter cannot, as we know, access a set of social support, such as the social income itself. Without a citizenship card, these citizens and citizens are not only full-fledged in possession of rights, as, worse, the lack of response from the State puts them in breach of their duties. To ensure, without obstacles, access to the citizenship card to people in situations without shelter is only to comply with national strategies. We had already brought this recommendation in 2019. At the time, she wasn't accompanied. We hope that this time there can be a different stance because it is not a question of winning the NAP but of ensuring the most basic rights of these people who are in a situation of extreme vulnerability. Therefore, based on this bill, we want to ensure that the address of a person in a homeless or homeless situation may be an address of a paragraph, it may be a telephone number or an e-mail address. And this is crucial because it is the non-governmental organizations, which act quite closely for the homeless, who alert us to this, and we are talking about practices that are already applied in other countries. As the Community of Life and Peace said, this proposal suppresses an attack on human rights and resolves a factor of constraint on access to social protection measures. We also bring here the question of proof of the statement of economic insufficiency, which can be achieved through the testimony of a social technician, where the person per night, ending with all kinds of bureaucracies that call into question fundamental rights. And we know well that we are talking about people in highly vulnerable situations, which do not have the conditions for bureaucratic obstacles not to limit these access to something so fundamental and basic of human rights, access to a card that allows people to be identified to access fundamental social support for their survival. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u130	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor now. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal for simplifying the procedure or certain procedures relating to the citizenship card can only be supported. We believe that this is a set of steps that are justified, which simplify the lives of people and without greater risks, at least at first reading, of injury to essential legal goods. We would, however, like to put two annotations, one of them converging with what has just been said by Mrs Bebiana Cunha, and which is basically the following: with the revocation included in the diploma proposed by the Government of the obligation to include the address in the integrated circuit of the citizen card, it is once and for all — so we understand it and we wish — removed any kind of justification for not assigning a citizenship card, not only to people without shelter, but also to persons who belong to nomadic communities, who have been denied the possibility of having a citizenship card just because it is not possible to declare their address. Therefore, we perfectly follow this proposal, provided that it means the possibility of, at last, basic justice for these people, which is to have a citizenship card, without which they cannot access a set of benefits they must be entitled to. Without wishing to draw up gallons that make no sense, I just remember that the Assembly of the Republic recently adopted a resolution on this issue, which deserved the votes of all political forces except for the Arrival, and on that I will make no comment. It's not necessary. The second note I wanted to make is that there is a fundamental question here: what is the response capacity of the Institute of Registers and the Notary(IRN) for a performance due to the ultimate objective of the Government proposal, which is to satisfy the fluidity of the citizen card acquisition procedure? We know that at this time there are about 200 000 — more, less — the citizens' cards that are about to be delivered. This contrasts completely with the negative movement, with regard to the human resources of the Institute of Registers and the Notariado. The figures are not from the Left Block, but from the Institute itself, and are also from the Government, as a whole, in the State Budget for 2012, in which it estimated a breakdown of about 20 % of IRN workers, notably conservatives and registrar officers. We can perfectly support changes of a technological nature, but we have the notion that if this change is not accompanied by an allocation of the human resources needed to make it surrender, then it will not be effective. The glamour of technological modernity does not conceal the real, daily need of means to answer. Therefore, the challenge that this bill makes to the government is to ensure its effective effectiveness by providing the IRN with the human resources that are lacking and that are not few. According to IRN figures themselves, they consist of official registration deficits and conservatives that go beyond 1000 people. We can, of course, make technological short circuits here, but there is no circuit-technology that can replace the lack of people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u132	Mr Romualda Fernandes, from the PS, now has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u133	Mr President, I welcome Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members : Portugal has been operating in recent years a remarkable digital transformation in the functioning of the State, in order to affirm itself as a modern and agile country in the provision of essential services. The country has been incorporating the simplification and innovation into the DNA ( deoxyribonucleic acid) of its Public Administration, which has brought it international recognition, such as the United Nations Public Service Award 2020. The relationship with technology has been intensifying and the use of digital services has grown exponentially in this long period of confinement. In Portugal alone, the public services portal managed by the Agency for Administrative Modernization has accumulated more than 19,000 visitors and the number of citizens with digital mobile keys has increased to 2700 million. These public services are expressions of this relentless search to serve the citizens better, agitating the relationship with the state, without neglecting the documentary guarantee and strengthening the identity chain. The changes that aim to simplify procedures and facilitate citizen interactions with the Public Administration become more efficient and we praise. of these changes, we will also have to refer to the territorially competent services of social security, associations or non-profit civil society entities, which are of the utmost importance to respond to an unclimbable ethical imperative, giving people in situations of non-custodial recognition of their identity. We welcome the references which have already been made and which the Minister has presented to us in this regard. On the other hand, the implementation of the ever-updated Simplex Morada measure, which the Minister has also referred to and which aims to simplify the procedures for changing the address on the citizen card and the possibility of delivery by postal mail at the address of its holder, also providing that the associated certificates of authentication and signature may be activated at a distance by using secure mechanisms at the end of the Community regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council on electronic identification and confidence services for electronic transactions in the internal market. We also stress the concern about harmonizing the requirement to collect biometric data for the issue of documents so that they can be reused, exempting citizens from double collection and duplicate work for services. The law is further updated, in particular, with regard to the identification of the services responsible for the issue, the possibility of submitting the application electronically and the updating of the forecast of the application when the holder is a major citizen accompanied by the supervision of the legal regime of the largest person accompanying it. With this initiative, we are at the heart of the concern expressed in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 130 / 2021, presented by the Block of the Left, which recommended that the Government take steps to equip people from nomadic communities in a residence that enables them to obtain citizenship card, as well as a project, submitted by the PAN, which aims to achieve the right to citizenship card for people in situations without shelter, so that they may also have their identification of address. In fact, citizens without a physical postal address will now have a number of options for choosing their address at their disposal as identified in Article 13. the, thus amplifying the rights of citizenship and attribution of identity of these citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u134	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u135	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Simplifying solutions to the lives of citizens and businesses, which generate positive impacts and savings in their time, deserve our membership, so we are sure that we will obtain the necessary consensus for the adoption of this proposal, introducing the necessary benefits, and that this initiative has already deserved a positive assessment of the consulted entities, the ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities) and the Advocates' Order. Mr President, thank you very much for your tolerance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u136	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u137	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State : First of all, I would like to point out that this proposal — as has already been mentioned — does not have a special controversial character or a greater degree of doubt, so to speak. Moreover, as explained here, it corresponds to a set of materials ranging from the harmonisation of biometric data to the removal of the address of the information range, in terms and circumstances explained by the Minister, to the delivery of the card by postal form or without physical identification in the information on the address. Therefore, they are subjects that correspond to an update and that generate, like what has been said here, a consensus, I think that wide, in the House. Obviously, some doubts are raised. Mrs Romualda Fernandes said, right now, that she had the positive opinion of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the Order of Lawyers, however, the Association of Municipalities present raises some doubts that make sense and that should be considered. One of the doubts that arises, for example, is that some of these matters are referred to regulation by door. They are not irrelevant matters and, in this context, even in this broad consensus, they lack attention and evaluation. This is the case with the new biometric system, it is the case with the terms and conditions of use of the new professional attributes certification system and are the cases in which it is necessary to submit, by electronic means, applications for citizenship card. All of these matters remain — and this is in some way a criticism — referred to as doormanship and that is not irrelevant. The Advocates' Order has already raised another issue, which is that of the second route and of the guarantees relating to this second route and the possibility of obtaining it. This is about the degree in its scope, so to speak. On the concrete issue, whether it is homeless, whether it is nomadic communities, I meant that, in principle, at least on our part, there is no objection. Obviously, these Portuguese are citizens like all others and should therefore have such access. However, and referring to the NAP project, it is necessary to be rigorous and say that today, with the legislative amendments that we have had, there is no longer precisely an impediment to access to fundamental rights, whether they are to obtain support, work or others, or even to health. It is not a situation of complete absence, so to speak, of citizenship. However, we are not against the idea and we also think that it is necessary to know very well how we are going to involve municipalities, whether municipal chambers, or parish chambers, in this matter. In other words, we need to know how we will collect these data and be effective from that point of view. The NAP project is a little bit wider and goes to other possibilities besides the authorship, because it goes to the phone numbers, or others. However, the proposal which the Government brings to us seems reasonable from this point of view and it will not be for us that it will not be assessed and analysed in the field of expertise, even though some of the issues we have mentioned here have obviously to be viewed and weighted, because, despite everything, the diploma is improved or at least "detailable" in some relevant aspects. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u138	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u139	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: We are faced with a bill that aims to improve the technological mechanisms relating to the citizenship card in order to make life easier for citizens, which seems to us a worthwhile goal, but there are two aspects for which we would like to draw attention. Firstly, technology does not exempt people and this has been said recently by Mr José Manuel Pureza. We know that the Institute of Registers and the Notary has a very considerable deficit in human resources and we know of the difficulties that citizens have experienced in obtaining citizenship cards and in renewing their own cards. Anyway, I don't know if we've all been through this, but a lot of us already had to lose two mornings or two afternoons to deal with the citizen card, the first time to make their request and the second time to make their survey. Many people have gone through this and, therefore, what will prevent disturbances to the lives of citizens in relation to the issue of citizenship cards is positive, but it implies that, on the part of the Institute of Registers and the Notary, human resources are able to respond to the demands and also to support people. If we introduce mechanisms of technological sophistication, but then we do not support people using them, we will be increasing inequalities and creating an elite of people able to use all the existing technological mechanisms, while a large number of people, because they do not feel able to use these organisms, will be excluded from the possibility of their use. Today we will have a problem like this, because although many citizens have a citizenship card, those whose age does not make them have a vital identity card—of course, there are still people in this situation—among the holders of the citizenship card, the vast majority, perhaps, does not use the digital mobile key because it does not know exactly what it is for, because it does not know how it is active or because it has not been clarified about the possibilities of its use. Therefore, it is also important to take care of the conditions that we give people in order to be able to use the technological means at their disposal. Then there is the problem of homeless citizens, both in the government bill and in the NAP initiative. Mr Telmo Correia pointed out, and it is true, that the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities criticized the fact that we have no idea how the Government intends to regulate this matter, and there are several possible solutions. They are dependent on regulation and, of course, the authorities should know the lines in which they are sewn, but so far no one knows. from our point of view, of the various solutions proposed, or we believe that the first line of support for these citizens should be the services of social security. That is, of course, that the solution to the problems of homeless people is to stop being, but while we have homeless citizens there is indeed a problem to be solved and you want us to think that the first line of resolution should go through social security services. At the local level, we see more easily that can pass through the municipal chamber than through the parish board, because the homeless citizen, especially in urban areas, will hardly be fixed in a parish. A homeless person from Lisbon or Porto will probably not only be in a single parish, looking for shelter where he can. Therefore, I believe that it is easier to locate a point of support at the municipal level than at the level of parish, because we will have difficulty delimiting exactly what it will be. So, if the option is for the authorities, from our point of view, it will be more curious than for the municipal chamber, but it would seem to us that the first line of support for these citizens, even for the tasks of their service, will be social security. Of course, this is something that the Government should regulate, so it is interesting that we know what the Government's reflection on this matter is. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u140	Mrs Marcia Passos, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u141	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: We are a little concerned about two reasons. For some of the solutions presented in the Government's bill and the NAP initiative, on the one hand, and for this calm of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, because it seems to be all right in the records and notary, but it is not. It's just that it's really not right.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u142	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u143	A citizen who wants to renew his citizenship card today finds everything less easy. The shops of the citizen remain unexplainedly closed; whoever tries to make the scheduling by telephone does not succeed because on the other hand no one attends; who resides, for example, in some municipalities in the interior of the country cannot schedule via the Internet because there is no network, except with some luck, by the river, in some localities. If you reside, for example, in the Port district today, you can manage to schedule the renewal of your citizenship card for September or December of this year, spending between four to six months waiting to renew your citizenship card, but if you are urgently able to choose to move to Penedon in the Viseu district. That's true, sirs. Members, there are conservatories of the Civil Registry of the District of Porto to suggest to citizens that they do more than 170 km to renew their citizenship card. This is the state of the applications for the issue or renewal of the citizens' cards, not to mention the many citizens' cards which are supposed to have already been issued but which, inexplicably, are months behind delivery to their holders. This is the reflection of this government's lack of investment in a sector that is fundamental to society and which, from various perspectives — civil, residential, commercial — confer legal security on citizens, businesses, trade and investment. A structural sector in which the State has not allowed for the renewal of the staff framework for more than 20 years, a reality to which the Government responds with programmes that usually call 'Simplex', but which are often no more than means of concealing the real needs. This is what makes this bill, which may have one or another positive aspect in trying to simplify procedures, such as the collection of biometric data and the possibility of reuse, hides the enormous weaknesses and government deficiencies. The situation is more serious, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we realize that the government continues to want to escape the problem of citizens called homeless. From what we saw in this plenary, it seems that this is normal, it seems that we are accepting this normality of the existence of homeless people in our country. It is noted that the government prefers to call them national citizens without a physical postcard. What's this? What is a national citizen without a physical postal address or, as the NAP prefers, a national citizen without a place corresponding to his habitual residence? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are obviously talking about people in a homeless situation and we cannot account for what we do not see. Instead of solving the social and human problem of these people, it is said that they can indicate the address of the parish board or the municipal chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u144	What's the alternative?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u145	Which one? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u146	The situation is so charged that they do not say in which council or municipal chamber, because they cannot say so. There isn't even any area of residence. Or, then, the address of social security, or even, as the PAN advances, the address of a paragraph or, imagine, a phone number, an e-mail address! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, does the NAP want people in homeless situations to indicate the address of a paragraph, which has costs? Oh, my God! A phone number? From an e-mail address? But the homeless people are on their iPads down the street? Oh, my God! [[PSD Members' laughs.]] An e-mail address, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? What's this, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? What's this? Oh, my God! In November 2019, the NAP presented a draft resolution with the same justification of reasons, but with manifestly different solutions and those we approve. The matter is problematic, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it deserves everyone's reflection, but it deserves concrete, viable solutions that solve people's lives, particularly those who are homeless.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u148	Another situation that we cannot deal with is the issue of attestations, which the NAP proposes, based on statements by persons registered in a parish board. I'm sorry to tell you, Mrs. Member, but the NAP should not know the reality of this country's authorship. The autarchs are responsible and cannot issue attestations, nor do they emit — we have no autarchs who can do this! — on the basis of public statements. To issue a residence certificate, i.e. wherever it is, the president of the parish board has to meet,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u149	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u150	...you have to go to the place, because otherwise you can't testify. It was just what needed to be different! Finally, Mr President, the PSD will be discussing the specialty with a willingness to find solutions, making it clear from now on that it will not adopt rules that try to hide the real problems of the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u151	For the closure of this debate, since there are no more inscriptions, Mr. Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration, Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to start by saying that technology is something that has to be at work, because it is an inclusion instrument. And it's an inclusion instrument either when we support people with less digital literacy to use online services, or when we use technology—yes, Mrs. Member, we use technology! — to integrate into the system the people who live outside of it, either because of the circumstances of their lives. So, what the bill is completely open to, is what we want to do, is that technology is used to include, and to include those who use the online services and those who are excluded, depending on the circumstances proper to their lives. I would also like to say that, of course, we will listen to the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities when drawing up the door which will densify the rules of the diploma that refer to the authorities and we have every confidence that, with the authorities, we will find solutions to identify these people and to give them full citizenship which has so far been difficult for them. This work will, of course, be done in partnership with the National Association of Municipalities, without prejudice to the work, also of detail or density, which this Assembly does in the specialty. I would also like to say that it is not true that the shops of the citizen are closed. The shops of the citizen, even because they are physical spaces, as a rule, large, with a large cluster of people, were closed in certain periods of the pandemic and, however, have already opened, for service by marking. But I wanted to give some numbers here, because the best thing is to give some numbers. The Laranjeiras Citizen's Store used 5000 visits per day in its normal time, which means that when a store like this is closed one, two or three months, by virtue of what we know, it is easy to understand what it takes to run to get the recovery. And so I give you a few more numbers: between April 19 and May 31, and in the defining plan, the shops of the citizen reopened on April 19, the number of services in the shops of the citizen reached almost 300 000, and in 2020, the period in which, as you know, we also had two moments of confinement, the shops of the citizen did 3 million services, and we are talking about face-to-face services. But I also give another number, which is the following: between September 2020 and May 2021, 2, 4 million citizens have been delivered at present by the TTC almost 500 000 and delivered in the citizen's spaces — smaller solutions, of course, of the parish — about 20 000. So what we have here, on the contrary, is the recovery of a difficult situation, because we are running behind a problem that was caused by a closure motivated by what we know, that is, by the need for confinement. These are the numbers of a recovery, in which, yes, the technology, in which, yes, the digital transition helps us a lot. For what? So that we can speed up and support people to use digital and thus leave the presence to those who can't or don't want to use digital. This is our purpose and all the improvements that the bill may receive from the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, in this line, you are therefore welcome. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u153	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finishing point three of our agenda. Point four, without time for discussion, concerns Resolution Proposals Nos 21 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Hellenic Republic on Defence Cooperation signed in Lisbon on 12 October 2020, 22 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the European Organisation for Public Law for the Establishment of a Regional Office in Portugal, signed in Athens on 16 October 2020, 23 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries signed in Lisbon on 18 December 2020 revising the Agreement on the Establishment of Community Headquarters in Portugal, signed in Lisbon on 3 July 1998, and 24 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Singapore, on the other hand, in Brussels on 19 October 2018. We have thus reached the end of our agenda today. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow at 3 p.m. The first item on the agenda, required by the Left Block, is for the evaluation of Bill No. 859 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Legalizes cannabis for personal use, in conjunction with Bill 862 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Establishes the legalization of the cannabis. From point two, no time for debate, the Bill No. 863 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Renews the transitional imposition of the mandatory use of masks in public spaces, extending for the third time the validity of Law No 62 -A / 2020 of 27 October. At the end of the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Before closing the sitting, I will give the floor to Mr Secretary to give us an account of the honourable Members. Members who were present by video conference. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I announce that Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, of the PSD parliamentary group, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira, Mr Carlos Alberto Gonçalves, also the PSD, elected by the electoral circle of Europe, and Mr Pedro Sousa, of the Socialist Party parliamentary group, were present at this plenary session by video conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-08.u155	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us finish our work today. A good afternoon and a good night. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 24 minutes.]]
