ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority, we're going to start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 1 minute.]] The first item on our agenda is for the joint discussion, in general, of the Bill No 109 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Creates the possibility of fixing maximum marketing margins for simple fuels and Law Projects Nos 898 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — establishes an exceptional and temporary system of maximum prices for liquid fuels, 899 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Establish a maximum price scheme in gas, 900 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Tax breakdown of electricity produced by renewable energy sources and other measures to counter the inflationary escalation of the electricity price, 924 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Elimination of increased tax on petroleum products ( ISP ) and 928 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — introduces a maximum price scheme for fuels and anti-speculative measures in the formation of fuel prices. You have the floor to present Law No 109 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Creates the possibility of fixing maximum marketing margins for simple fuels, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Energy, João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government is coming today to present the Bill No 109 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which establishes an exceptional and temporary regime of maximum prices for liquid fuels and GPL( liquefied oil gas) bottled. The objective of this bill is to recognize the complexity of the value chain of the national oil system and based on the existing powers of the ERSE ( Regulatory Entity for Energy Services ) and the ENSE ( National Entity for the Energy Sector ), by proposal of the regulator, i.e. of the ERSE, consulted the Competition Authority, to enable the Government to set maximum margins per element of the value chain. The national oil system, as I said, is a complex system of free regimes, in which, contrary to what happens, for example, in the national electricity system, there is no system of pricing by the regulator. That is why we should understand this bill as completing the regulatory powers that are currently defined. Without this bill, the regulation of ERSE in the national oil system was almost a power of mere observation and reporting. ERSE could identify excessive margins, as it has already done in the past, for example, at the CLC (Companhia Logística de Fuels), which allows to carry much of the tanks that distribute fuel through the country, except that the government had no instrument that would allow it, made identification by the regulator and verifying that it was correct, intervene. Therefore, the regulatory power of ERSE in this matter was merely descriptive and this bill aims to make this power consequent. If ERSE, in any element of the value chain, either in fuel, or in the bottled GPL, identify the place or places where these excessive margins occur, the Government may, on a proposal from the ERSE and consulted the Competition Authority, intervene. The main impact of this proposal is, of course, dissuasive. By enabling the Government to intervene, the aim is that intervention is not necessary, but, if it proves necessary, we can intervene, something which, without this bill, would not be possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u3	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State: Last July, the CFP presented the three initiatives which we are discussing today on the prices of fuels, electricity and gas. Two and a half months ago, the situation, which was already serious, was even worse, which reinforced the urgency of these measures, in order to safeguard Portuguese consumers with another increase, above one of Europe's most expensive energy bills. In fuels, we see speculative increases that require public action. After the CFP initiative, the Government presented a project to control the margins of trade. We believe that the CFP initiative is more complete, but we will not fail to give the Government the instruments it requests and that they will have to prove, in practice, its real impact on the prices of fuels paid by Portuguese. It is only a pity that the Government has not taken advantage of the CFP proposal in the last State budget which would have allowed these instruments to be available today and had been available in July and August, which would have prevented speculative fuel increases in recent months. In the stock gas, we continue to have an unjustified price difference between Portugal and Spain, which is detrimental to the country. Why this price difference? The ISP applied to gas is the same. VAT ( value added tax) is slightly different: 23 % in Portugal and 21 % in Spain. The raw material is the same and even the marks are the same, on one side and on the other side of the border. So, what explains that a bottle of 11 kg propane costs about €13 in Spain and, on the side of the border, costs, on average, more than €25? Oh, my God! It is that there is a difference: in Spain, the price is set and in Portugal, no. There is the difference, which allows the accumulation of unjustified margins for large oil. It's not just the PCP that says so. ESRB, in a report of August 2020, « identified structural problems in the bottled LPG market, based on high levels of concentration and gains accumulated by operators along the value chain ». As regards electricity, increases in regulated tariffs and possible increases in other tariffs concern Portuguese. The government has said it has ‘many pillows’ to prevent the increases from being very high, but it is not enough to reduce the size of the increase. What is needed is even to reduce the cost of energy, which is now uncomportable and represents a barrier to the competitiveness of the economy and the necessary normalisation of people's lives. For this reason, it is not enough to keep the income and profits of energy multinationals intact. It is necessary to move forward with courageous measures that face these great interests and call into question a system of unfair, speculative and cost-effective price formation, which guarantees profits at the expense of consumers. How is it accepted that all electricity produced in one day is paid at the price of the last unit entered? How is it accepted that because of this it is paid by the system, that is, by all consumers, the energy produced by water plants, as if they were producing natural gas, which is much more expensive? In other words, a plant that does not buy gas, because it is water, nor does it pay carbon licences, because it does not issue it, can in a few days be paid by all of us at the price of gas production, which is the most expensive energy. The CFP proposes measures which call into question this system of unacceptable price formation, as well as tax dishonoring measures. We propose that, from the calculations of the National Energy Networks, the part of the electricity produced from renewable sources is exempt from oil tax. It does not make sense that all electrical production is subject to this tax, if the renewable component is increasing. We also want to eliminate the artificial aggravating factors that weigh on the regulated tariff and which only serve to push consumers into the so-called « free market ». With these proposals, we are challenging the government: instead of'smoothing' the profits of energy, have the courage to face the interests of this sector! [[PCP applause.]] The resources of families and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises cannot continue to be drained from the economy to feed the profits of electricity. The last few months and indeed the last few years contradict the propaganda that the liberalisation of energy markets, promoted by successive PS governments, PSD and CDS, would lead to competition and low prices. Neither competition nor low prices! After all these years, what we have is cartelization, speculative incomes and prices that are the highest in Europe, which holds those who sold and continue to sell the « snake bath» of liberalisation. We reaffirm that energy is too strategic to continue in the hands of private and foreign capital. Yes, it is necessary to regain public control over energy, so that this strategic sector is placed not at the service of multinationals, but at the service of the country. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u5	For the presentation of the CDS-PP bill, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: In order to do this debate, which is, above all, about the price of fuels, but also from other sources of energy, I think we should start with facts. And starting with facts, I found it important to realize what happens every time a Portuguese decides to fill in the deposit of his car. Therefore, by taking data from the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology, I simulated what happens at the price, every time we fill a deposit, for example, with petrol 95. [[At the moment, the speaker displayed an image with the calculation of the value of 40 l of gasoline.]] If we look at what happens, and because we're talking about prices, when filling up a 40 l tank with gasoline, we'll pay 67 €. Of these 67 €, almost 40 € are taxes and fees that go to the state and 27, 76 € pay the raw material, margins, storage, income and everything else you want to call it. Already in gas oil, it happens that, to fill in the deposit, we have to pay almost 60 €. The speaker also displayed an image with the calculation of the value of 40 l of gas oil. Again, more than half of the value, i.e. 31, 25 € are for taxes and taxes, and they go to the state, and the rest pay gas oil, marketing, margins, etc. I think we should have this debate based on facts and the fact is that the lion's margin in the formation of this price is the state. So if what we want is to lower the price, then what the CDS proposes is that the State should start by regulating its own price and by fixing its own maximum margin. in this case, at present, the State margin exceeds 50 % of the price, reaching almost 60 %. So if what we want is to lower the price, if what we want is to regulate the margin, then the State that begins to set an example in its own margin. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u7	Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group also spoke for the presentation of her bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The successive increase in the price of selling fuel to the public has economic and social consequences. We are currently talking about historic peaks in at least a decade. These increases aggravate the difficulties and delay recovery, after the crisis resulting from the restrictions imposed by the pandemic. Many families that had, and still have, cuts in their incomes face increases in their energy costs. This is not a new issue and the proposal we have not brought forward. Already in 2011 the Left Block presented a bill that intended to introduce anti-speculative measures and transparency in price formation. At the time, the liberalisation of fuels showed its perverse effects on consumers, as a result of an opaque pricing system dominated by speculation. There is a fundamental problem, which has to do with the international system, which is deeply cartilized, and then other problems arise: when the price of oil rises, sales prices to the consumer also rise, but when oil prices fall, sales prices to the consumer are late or never reduced. The Government therefore announced that legislation would be proposed to contain price rises. An expectation was created. But we believe that the proposed law is currently under discussion, because, in fact, the fixing of maximum margins along the value chain of fuels may not ensure that consumer sales prices fall. And we therefore consider it to be an insufficient proposal, but we will not prevent the Government from making use of all the instruments at its disposal. We also support the imposition of maximum selling prices to the public that reflect the evolution of the maximum price of the current crude oil, in its positive or negative variation. On the other hand, we add measures to prevent price distortions, avoiding that the price of one week may not exceed 102 % of the average prices of the previous two weeks. It should be noted that the CFP projects and the Government's proposal are omitted as regards the establishment of maximum rates for price increases or the establishment of maximum margins for petrol stations, giving competent entities the responsibility for determining the maximum values to be applied. What we consider is that we should want to go further and have more transparent mechanisms so that companies and the population know exactly what they can count on at any time. This is the meaning of the Left Block proposal. Today we also have PCP bills that affect the electric bill. We agree with the tax disgrace, on the part of electricity from renewable sources, in the tax on petroleum products, as we agree with the possibility of entering into new contracts on the regulated market, which are, in fact, sensible measures, although they may have little impact on turnover. Moreover, the CFP project is limited to determining the disclosure by ERSE of information on the profits of electricity producers. Now, the abusive gains of the electrics have been in sight of everyone and of all, the increases are already happening and, therefore, it seems to us that remaining for requests for information is wasting time to respond to the clock bomb we have today in the electric bill. And already this year, the Left Block has brought here two proposals, precisely on the subjects on which it is now intended to collect information. The first was a bill which, if approved, would carry out a measure recommended for more than two years by the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry ( CPI ) to the Payment of Excessive Income, with the positive vote of the PS, but which the Government then refused: the review of the remuneration of wind power stations. In 2013 the Coelho Pass Government changed the rules of the game for businesses by offering them an additional period of high remuneration in exchange for a modest annual contribution between 2013 and 2020. We believe that this harmful law should be repealed by returning to companies what they paid and remunerating the remuneration provided for in the 2005 Act, which covered the initial investments. According to the calculations approved by the same ICC, with this reversal consumers would save between EUR 1000 million and EUR 1500 million in the coming years. But the Block bill was plummeted by PS, PSD and CDS. The second initiative of the Block was a draft resolution for the elimination of « fallen profits from heaven », taken by dams. Furthermore, an in-line measure with which the Socialist Government of the Spanish State has just approved to eliminate the gain of dams equivalent to the costs of gas and CO2 power plants. These gains are excessive because dams, having no such costs, are paid at the same price. But also this measure was plunged by the PS, the CDS and the Arrival, with the abstention of the PSD. So on the left side of the Block, we will again take initiatives and bring them here, demanding everyone to assume their option: to protect profits or to protect populations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u9	You have the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Hypocrisy reigns in this plenary. Five years ago, when the government took possession, fuel prices were particularly low and at that time the government raised a principle, a principle that aimed to ensure Portuguese price stability and to guarantee the government the revenue needed to comply with its budget — they called it « fiscal neutrality ».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u11	They called him all, not just the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u12	What did this principle illustrate? Basically, this principle said: « If fuel prices rise, we will reduce the ISP. thus, we will obtain the same recipe, but we will dishonor the Portuguese of the taxes that have increased.' They made the biggest tax increase in history: 6 cents per litre in gasoline and gas oil. From that moment on, what happened? The price of fuel began to rise and the government did not comply with its word, it denounced it, in five years, in more than EUR 2000 million against the Portuguese! [[PSD and IL applause.]] It did so as much as possible, anesthetizing the Portuguese through indirect taxes and then year after year, taking refuge in the environmental issue. He came to say that he had something to do with the environmental issue. Now, if it had to do with the environmental issue, was it necessary, every year, to carry more and more, as the government has charged? Was it necessary to impose on Portuguese, many without access to public transport and in areas around the country, an effort rate of 15 %, 20 % and 30 % to move to employment, to take children to school? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u13	It was for this dramatic plight that the Portuguese were pushed, for one reason: because we have a glutan state, a government that is irresistible to more taxes and which, in essence, created a'smoker curtain' to guarantee more revenue, to the wake of the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u14	And this bill, which the Government submits, is affiliated to this purpose. The Government anticipates popular rejection of the price of fuels, which increases, due to the significant increase in raw materials — it is a fact — and this is not the responsibility of the Government, the responsibility of the Government is not to have honored its word and today are the Portuguese to respond, through taxes, by 55 % to 60 % of the price of fuels. This is terrible for families, this is terrible for businesses, in a country that is not competitive, which needs to create qualified jobs, which needs to find solutions to achieve a more robust, inclusive economy, an economy that has the ability to regenerate itself and not fall into the abyss that means being one of the last countries in Europe. I will give you the following example, which is so illustrative: since 2016, in ISP and other taxes, the government has increased 11 cents per litre only in gas oil. See what this increase represents for each family with an income of 600 €! Those who profess social justice see how disloyal, how harmful such a tax is, who consumes a significant portion of the income of a family! So these gentlemen have not honored your word, and we all know that. On the other hand, I leave two notes: we do not want profitable economies, we do not want economies that work in monopolies or oligopolies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u15	And go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u16	It goes from there — very well, Mr President — from there, we will build solutions, in the specialty, so that, if this regulation is needed to be more robust, it will come to be, without forgetting that those who have lowered regulation, putting political personnel without competence, it was this government. It was this government that did this,... [[PSD applause.]] ...it was this government that took the means for better regulation. With regard to the CDS proposal, we shall vote-CL - favourably, so that it enters into force from 1 January, so that there are no doubts about constitutionality, and others, because, and I would like to remind you, in 2018, the PSD presented a proposal for fiscal neutrality and the CDS voted in favour, the CFP voted in favour,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u17	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u18	... the Left Block voted in favour and, when we arrived at the specialty, suddenly the PCP and the Left Block remembered the argument of the "law-work"... [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] ...and of unconstitutionality, which, in recent times, have not been so remembered.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u20	Therefore, they were not consistent with what they said, but we are: we want the law met and we want the lowest taxes! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u21	For an intervention by the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This PS government is already known for its political contortionism, but this Ministry of the Environment and this Energy State Secretariat are the maximum exponent of propaganda, which tries to throw sand into the eyes of the Portuguese. And this fuel issue is an excellent example of this. The PS propaganda strategists realized that the high price of fuels was a political problem for the government. It goes from there, prices have to be lower — the geniuses of propaganda have concluded. But how? Through the tax drop, the ISP drop? "Oh, no, because that will stimulate CO2 emissions and kill the planet," said one of those geniuses. Are the oil margins limited? « That is a great idea! The PS makes a figurine and the oil, these evil ones, is that they pay', shot another genius. But going down the prices, down the banks, doesn't it kill the planet anymore? “ No, of course not! If it is not the taxes to come down, only CO2 is issued of the good and we still attack capitalism, another evil'. « In 2016, we had promised to lower taxes when oil went up? Oh, my God! "Eh, man, this port would have gone up the ISP when Brent's barrel was at 36 dollars and now, which is at 73, we still don't go down the ISP? Oh, my God! Do not keep on seeking. ” Tax neutrality only works when it is in favour of the PS government, when it is in favour of people and businesses no longer matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u23	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u24	I shall conclude, Mr President. Here we have the PS in its splendor: promise what is right for you, do what is right for you when you are interested, mind when you give it a good deal and make politics with the money of others. There are those who call this "political skill", the Liberal Initiative calls it a lack of shame in his face.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u25	Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has already been stressed here by other Members. Ladies and gentlemen, what I will mention, but it is never too much stressed. Requests the Government to intervene with the fixing of maximum margins in all components of the gasoline value chain. I imagine that the government does not include the state in this chain, since the value created here by the State is zero. Unfortunately, that zero of value created corresponds to about 61 % of the price paid by the consumer. Will there be abuses in at least some of those components of the value chain? Everybody's figured out there's gonna be some. But will there be more abuse than to charge 61 % of the final price without adding any value? Of course not! From the oil wells to the tip of the needle, the 95-octane gasoline costs 68 cents, but, at the time it passes from the needle to the deposit, it gives a kind of miracle and it costs 1, 75 €. The Government, the author of this and many other miracles of the same kind, thus giving the example and beginning with reducing the absurd tax burden that throws on road fuels.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u27	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. For an intervention, Mr. Miguel Costa Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u28	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members, what brings us here today is a common concern: the high and increasing price of fuels and energy in Portugal and its impact on families and businesses. And it is important to ask why this is the case: the ISP or the commercial margins? This is the debate we have to do today. Well, let's go to the facts. Yes, the ISP represents three times more than the commercial margins, but... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ...what has increased and decreased in recent years? Since 2015, the average price of gasoline has risen 32 cents. The ISP was responsible for 5 cents, only, and the margins for 6. In the gas oil, where the price rose 37 cents, the ISP responds for 11 cents,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u29	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u30	...but the margins respond by 6. That's right, sir! And in the propane, which is what people have at home, the ISP was responsible for 5 cents and the margins for 14, I repeat, for 14! These numbers deserve our reflection. Yes, the fuels pay high taxes! Yes, we have the climate change right there! No, the increase in ISP does not account for much of the increase in fuel prices! Yes, commercial margins have contributed almost as much as taxes to the increase in fuel prices!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u31	Almost as much as taxes? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u32	This leads us to a big question: then, what are we going to do? Some say: “Let’s go down to the ISP. ” Now, in gasoline, the ISP has already fallen to levels of fiscal neutrality and, in gas oil, there is a cost of 300 million euros. But who pays? We're all paid, even those who don't use private cars. And they pay, above all, the younger generations, my generation, because we take resources from the decarbonization to encourage the consumption of fossil fuels. Others, like the Government, say: « market rules ». And then, who pays, when the market is regulated? They pay the oil, they pay the gas, with a limit to their profit for extracting something that hurts us. As proposed by the CFP and the Left Block, we can in fact impose maximum prices, or as proposed by the Government, we can limit the margins. Let's be honest, you'll give it to me. It is only to limit margins that maximum prices are updated every day to reflect the daily changes in reference prices or, worse, that we forget to change the maximum prices and that we have to compensate, as is the case in Spain, with gas, oil and gas. So what makes sense is we regulate the margins. The PCP also brings to this House a proposal for tax relief on renewable electricity. It is a good principle and, at the moment, non-renewable electricity already pays more taxes, particularly carbon rates. But the solution it brings is harmless, because, in fact, it creates a very expensive system of administration, the exchange of a savings of €1 or €2 for all families. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The price of fuels has indeed increased and has happened throughout Europe. In 2019, as in 2015, we had the ninth most expensive price of gasoline and the sixth most expensive price of gasoline. Now, consistent with climate planning and social justice, we are going to intervene without fear on the shores. So, and only so, will we make this a time to act for fairer prices. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u33	You have the floor for an intervention by the NAP, Mr Nelson Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is at least curious, and I cannot forget, that the PSD is here talking about protecting consumers from rising prices of spent fuel.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u35	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u36	I must recall something that, when I was in college, made me quite frustrated, which was the government in 2004 decided to liberalise fuel prices in Portugal. I must recall that in 2004 it was Prime Minister Durão Barroso who did so. It was your government that started this descent in retrospect. So, if we're going to talk about history, at least we're talking about history that's relevant to the case we have in mind. The NAP, in fact, accompanies this proposal from the Government, but regrets that it is no longer ambitious and more transparent. But ambitious, because it is a purely exceptional regime. The fuel market is an oligopoly and it is up to the State to intervene to ensure that companies do not receive an abnormal profit, as it is said in economic language, an excessive profit, harming consumers, in common language. We therefore challenge the Government to amend the regulatory regime and ensure that petrol stations only receive what they have right. More transparent, on the other hand, because nowhere are the maximum profit margins defined, the definition of which is referred to as doorkeepers, outside the scrutiny of this Parliament. We remind the Government that it must check the profitability rates on the market, which typically surround 8 %, and we cannot fail to ask the government what value it has in mind. We do not follow the draft laws of the PCP and the Left Block, which aim to establish maximum prices since they forget that quotations on the international market change daily. We have reviewed and followed up on the tax dishonoration of energy produced from renewable sources. We do not follow the CDS-PP initiative because it counters the incentives for transition to renewable energy. Finally, we must not fail to point out that, instead of being here today, to discuss the transaction values of fossil fuels, we would prefer to have a debate on improving public transport, which still does not exist in the lives of people, who, unfortunately, because they do not have collective transport in quantity and quality, continue to have to use individual transport, which both contributes to the emission of greenhouse gases and to the degradation of air quality, responsible for 7000 annual deaths in Portugal. It is this structural debate that it is urgent for this Parliament to have and for which the NAP has already challenged the government. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u37	Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecological Party, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to this proposal which the Government is bringing us to discuss today, by which it intends to create the possibility of fixing maximum marketing margins for simple fuels, it is important to say the following: as the Government itself refers to the exposition of reasons accompanying the proposed law, the decrease in demand for petroleum products on the world market has caused an abrupt fall in its quotations on the market and, consequently, in reference prices in our country. It happens that, contrary to what happens whenever there is a rise in the quote on the market of petroleum products, in which Portuguese, almost automatically and instantly, if they are forced to pay more for fuels this time, and others, in similar situations, the breakdown of their quote on the market did not make themselves felt in the Portuguese pocket. That is, the rule only works when it's to pay more, when it's to pay less it looks like the rule doesn't work. In our view, this situation is absolutely unacceptable and requires the establishment of legal mechanisms to prevent these totally immoral abuses. Therefore, in the perspective of the Greens Ecological Party, what is required is the creation of appropriate mechanisms that are capable of preventing the increase in speculative prices of fuels, which has penalized families, but also companies, especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which, in fact, already bear the highest turnover in Europe. In fact, speculative fuel prices cause very negative consequences on taxpayers, and at two levels, or rather in a double dose: on the one hand, because taxpayers pay more for fuel every time they are going to supply and on the other, because they end up bearing the inflation that consumer goods suffer, due to increased production costs, since these increases are invariably reflected in the final consumer. Consequences also in the fragile health of our companies, especially small ones, since companies are faced with more difficulties to compete with import suppliers, which naturally penalises our production, national production, and consequently also the economy of the country. In view of the proposal presented by the Government, it remains to be said that, if the Government considers this to be the appropriate instrument for preventing the escalation of speculative prices for consumers, if the Government considers this to be an appropriate instrument for preventing situations like the one we live today and which have contributed to inflating the production costs of our products, with serious damage to our economy, businesses and families, The Greens will give the benefit of doubt to the Government, but we will be careful and we will expect the Government to be able to make proper use of this instrument, which makes good use of this mechanism that proposes to us, to end this flood, without fear, as has already been mentioned by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u39	Mr Cecilia Meireles spoke for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate, which is being rich, I would say, in demagogy and exalted expressions, that I recall and quote again the ERSE, which is the regulator, and of whom we have already spoken, about gasoline 95 simple : « Portugal practised an average selling price without taxes lower than in Spain. The tax burden applied in Portugal, 60 %, justified the lower price competitiveness in the context of the Iberian Peninsula". By translating to Mr Duarte Alves the tax-free selling price here in Portugal is lower than in Spain. Because of the taxes that you approve here is higher. Therefore, when talking about abuses, they have the stamp of the PCP. And they have the stamp of the PCP, the Block and the Government, and I explain why. It is that when the price of oil fell and the prices of gasoline and diesel were falling in 2016 the government decided to say: "No, no, consumers will pay the same, they will continue to pay an abnormally high price, because we will increase the ISP". The CDS often proposed lowering this ISP, or, on the other hand, proposed that the Government fulfil the promise it made of fiscal neutrality, i.e., that when the price of oil increases again, that of the ISP would fall. The government has never done that and has never fulfilled the promise. And even when we were able to lower a proposal to reduce the ISP, the PCP and the Left Block, which had abstained, changed their votes and voted against that proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u41	And why?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u42	Therefore, when they come here today to speak of « absolutely immoral abuses » and « regabofe », this tax haven has the stamp of the PCP and has the stamp of the Left Block. When I hear the Block assert here today that it is necessary to choose between profits and protect people, I would like to say that Block Left, in 2018, chose to harm people. The ISP could have gone down, the price of gasoline and gasoline could have gone down, but the Block, the PCP and the government chose to harm people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u43	You have to say why!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u44	So if we want to regulate the margins, if we want to avoid excessive profits, and we are absolutely in favour of it, we will start by the point that effectively makes the difference in Portugal. And what makes the difference in Portugal is an absolutely abnormal tax burden.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u45	Mr Filipe Pacheco, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u46	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: Whenever we discuss this issue of the price of energy, we are already used to one thing: it comes to the right, then, to cry out that the great responsibility and guilt of the high price of energy are the state. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] What, then, are the proposals on the right that have liberalized the fuel market? What are the proposed solutions? [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u47	Go away, the PSD has nothing to say. The PSD, goes from there, and has given up presenting any solution to the country. from the CDS, we have a solution and we have a project, which is a project to return to the past. The CDS wants to spend public resources to lower the price of fossils, forgetting three things: on the one hand, that this implies a brutal budgetary effort, for a residual impact on the consumer’s pocket;...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u48	Oh, is that residual? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u49	... secondly, that the ISP is an environmental tax and that part of its revenue is used to support environmental policies, such as the Programme of Support for Tax Reduction in Public Transport. We already know that you have voted against and that you do not like these policies, but that is why that tax serves. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A third question is that this is a policy that is contrary to all the national and international objectives and commitments made to decarbonisation and to the green transition. On the left, we have some solutions with a good background, but it is also important not to forget and not pretend that the price of energy is not increasing at the source, because it is. from the PCP side, we have a tax dishonoring project that has some interesting measures—and the focus of these measures is the State Budget—but it is necessary to be careful with some of the measures presented, such as regarding the issue of regulated tariff. It is important not to forget that the mechanism of automatic adjustment of the regulated tariff was what enabled a price drop in the regulated tariff last year, which was then also accompanied on the liberalised market.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u50	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u51	On the other hand, we know that consumers today can freely switch from regulated tariffs to other more attractive alternatives. And it is important to remember that the regulated tariff concerns only 15 % of the total market, less than 1 million consumers. Therefore, for the Socialist Party, using the regulated rate to create fictional prices, which will have to be paid by everyone, is not at all the solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u52	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u53	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying only one thing: for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group the resolution of the problem of the high and rising price of energy in Portugal must be done structurally and without paying the present and future generations. This, yes, is in line with the proposal that the Government today presented here and those that have been its policies since 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u54	To close this debate, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Energy, João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government's position on what has happened in recent times with regard to energy is simple and I think everyone can understand it. The best way we can protect ourselves against the volatility of the prices we see is to put a deep emphasis on our commitment to renewable energy. Only the bet on renewables can protect the country from the volatility of fossil energies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then, yes, we may have something the CFP always defends: energy sovereignty with our endogenous resources. That is why we have enormous perplexity and enormous difficulty in understanding the CFP proposals in this area, because they seem to be based on the idea that energy sovereignty includes fossil fuels. It does not include, Mr, because we do not produce any fossil fuel. Another border that is important to demarcate is in relation to the CDS proposal. I would like to make the position of the Government very clear here : under no circumstances will the Government deprive the 300 million Euro Environment Fund, which are better used to support the decline in electricity prices, to support the fall in public transport fares and passes, to support the purchase of electric buses, and others, as well as the entire decarbonization policy. That is what your proposal does, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u56	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u57	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u58	Your proposal removes EUR 300 million from all these fundamental investments for Portuguese, present and future families, without the guarantee of an effective fuel reduction, because much of the reduction in the ISP is appropriate for oil and does not feel in the consumer stock market. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u59	You said you weren't going to raise taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u60	I would therefore like to make it clear that the government's wager is in renewables, in renewables, in renewables. And, no, we will not deprive the country of its much-needed decarbonisation of 300 million euros that the CDS wants to deliver to the oilfields, with uncertain fate, because there is no guarantee that this effectively reduces the price of fuels. On the other hand, it is important to know the different markets where we intend to intervene. The CFP and the Block, particularly the CFP, do not appear to distinguish between the different markets, such as between the gas market, when they propose maximum prices in this sector, which is partly regulated with regulated tariffs set by ERSE, and the liquid fuel market, which is free and where there is no regulated tariff. by imposing a limit price, in fact, what would happen, with your proposal, is that it would be the final distributors, especially the small ones, to bear at all this cost, going to failure. For whose benefit? For the benefit of large oil, which integrates loading, distribution and transport, and have the ability to accommodate this loss. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr Duarte Alves, although, as the PS Members have said, the objective of the CFP is positive, the solutions it presents would have an effect contrary to the intended one. And in electricity it is even more serious, Mr, because what you and your party are proposing is artificially subsidizing less than 15 % of consumers. Who paid that allowance? It would be the other 85 % of consumers, who today have lower prices than regulated electricity. Think of the absurdity that this is: any Portuguese consumer, today, charging a button, without costs, can choose a tariff cheaper than the regulated one and if, at the end of the year, you want to return to the regulated tariff, you can also do it without costs. But the PCP doesn't want this. The CFP wants it to remain in the regulated tariff, creating a fictitious price, as if to pretend that, in the wholesale market — in the source, as the PS Member said — the price is not rising. Therefore, create a fiction: by decree, create a fancy price and put all consumers who are not at the regulated rate, including all small Portuguese micro and small companies who do not have access to any regulated tariff, to subsidize it. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] Mr President, this is unnecessary, wrong and unfair. And look: the Left Block still proposes that someone pay for the crisis, already the PCP proposal states that there is no crisis, that there is no price increase and that no one pays, i.e. simply freezes the price and does not attribute the effect of this freezing to anyone. So it seems mysteriously that the price of energy disappears. Mr President, that is why the proposal which the Government brings here today is very important. We do not want to determine the evolution of energy prices with this proposal, which we want to ensure is that the evolution of energy prices reflects only the costs of production, and not the power of this or that producer. If the proposal presented by the Government to Parliament is approved and if the ERSE identifies abusive margins in the bottled GPL—as happened last year, in full pandemic, when it informed the Government that there was an anomaly on the banks and we, under the state of emergency legislation, were able to set that margin — we will be able to act. This bill does not do any more or intends to do more than make it permanent and structural something that has been used once, in a situation of absolute exceptionality. Therefore, this proposal is not the Government's response to high energy prices, it is not the Government's response to volatility. The Government has already said that it has several proposals for electricity, which will be known on October 15 or before. All consumers consume petroleum derivatives and electricity and therefore we prefer to act on that energy source that everyone consumes and is aligned with the government's decarbonisation objectives. That's the good use of public money. To spend 300 million euros with energy from the past, which does not give guarantees of low prices or, if they fall, will be small and withdraw resources from public transport and investment to decarbonisation, I am sorry, Mrs Deputy, but it is not an appropriate policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u61	It's honoring the word!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u62	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u63	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Government's proposal allows that, if there is any price developments, in some element of the value chain that has nothing to do with the volatility of the price of fossil fuels, and if the regulator is to identify, as identified last year, the government is to intervene. That's all. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, renewables are the only thing that protects the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u64	You really have to finish, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u65	What is the best answer we can give? Speed up investment in renewables.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u66	Mr. Secretary of State, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u67	Electricity is the source of energy in the future, so what we must do is divert resources and contain electricity prices. They have the government's commitment that we're going to do this next year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u68	We have thus reached the end of the first item on the agenda. We now move on to the second item on the agenda, with the general discussion of the Bill No 110 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves anti-doping law in sport by adopting in the domestic legal order the rules laid down in the World Anti-Doping Code. To open the debate, Mr. Secretary of State for Youth and Sport, John Paul Rebelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u69	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u70	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u71	Mr President, with the permission of you, we give the floor to Mr Emídio Guerreiro, who is the one who dominates these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u72	I'm sorry, but what is the regimental figure for the honourable Member to intervene?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u73	Mr President, I would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings and it has to do with exactly the point on the agenda that Mr President was announcing. I signaled, but Mr President did not notice, precisely to speak to the Bureau before the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u74	Please, honourable Member, if it is to help the Bureau, we are always available.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u75	Mr President, for this debate, which has been scheduled at the Leaders' Conference at the same time, as everyone knows — i.e. we will make the generality, the expertise and the overall final vote — the PSD has made a proposal which, as it has just become aware, is being rejected by the services. The proposal has to do with the following, and this is the clarification that the PSD is asking for at this time: there is a set of regulations in this government diploma which clearly refers to numbers of the World Anti-Doping Code, i.e. "if you do this, the sanction applied is 3.2.1 of the World Anti-Doping Code". Now, the PSD proposed that the World Anti-Doping Code be contained in an annex on a matter of legal certainty. However, the information now available to us is that there is no translation into Portuguese of the World Anti-Doping Code, that is, it is not possible to be transcribed and annexed. in this way, Mr President, it seems to me that voting in the specialty is detrimental.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u76	Mr. Deputies, it must be more synthetic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u77	But this is what I am trying to explain, Mr President, exactly to contribute. If there is no Portuguese version, it cannot be included as an annex. And I wonder how we can vote in the specialty of a set of articulateds, where it is said, for example, that what applies is Article 23.2.1 of a code that does not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u78	But we are at a stage of debate and the issues you are raising have to do with the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u79	It is pre-debate, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u80	Therefore, we are not at the voting point and the debate is initiated by the Secretary of State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u81	But this is previous, Mr President, so I asked for the floor to call on the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u82	...that I hope he's already here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u83	Mr President, I am sorry, I have asked to make the inquiry precisely because what has been 'closed' is that we will do everything today, that is to say, we will do the debate in general and in specialty, as well as vote in general, in speciality and in global finality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u84	Yes, but at this point we are not going to vote in general and in specialty. We know that it is, but that will be at the point of the vote and not now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u85	All right, Mr. President. at that time, then, we will invoke...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u86	In any event, we have to debate this point and, as such, Mr. Secretary of State for Youth and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u87	Mr President, warm greetings to the whole Parliament, to the Members and to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I begin by saying that the phenomenon of doping in sports, either in a professional context, in a context of high income or even in an amateur sports practice, is not only a direct attack on ethics and sports integrity as it is also a public health problem, given the manifestly harmful effects resulting from the use of dopant substances. Portugal is linked to the fight against doping in sport, notably through the ratification in 2007 of the International Convention against Doping in Sport, a UNESCO convention ( United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ). Portugal has also had a long history of legislative intervention in the fight against doping in sport, which is based on the fundamental importance of having an effective system of combating doping in sport, in order to preserve the health of sports practitioners and the sport truth. I am not going to be very exhaustive, but it goes from Law No. 27 / 2009 to Law No. 38 / 2012 or Law No. 93 / 2015, which includes adopting the structural principles and provisions of the new World Anti-Doping Code, approved by the World Anti-Doping Agency, which is 2015, as I said. Then there is also Law No 111 / 2019... Finally, we have a long legislative tradition, including with the Law of Basics of Physical Activity and Sport to establish that it is also up to the State to adopt measures to prevent and punish anti-sport events, including doping. However, the Government Programme also commits itself to continuing the fight against doping as a form of perversion of sport truth and, here at hand, it is important to remember that in November 2019, after a period of two years of review and consultation, the World Anti-Doping Agency approved the revision of the World Anti-Doping Code, which introduced several and significant changes to the regime of the previous code, which entered into force on 1 January 2021. Thus, the provisions of the new World Anti-Doping Code now need to be adopted in the domestic legal order, which effectively implies a new law and its approval. The proposed law that is being discussed today is the only way to ensure the compliance of the Anti-Doping Authority of Portugal and, consequently, of the fight against doping in sport with the new World Anti-Doping Code. We know that the consequences of a possible non-compliance are serious, such as Portugal's impossibility to organise regional, European or world championships and the prohibition, including, in particular, to stem the Portuguese flag in these same competitions. Portugal, like other countries, is on a watch list, i.e. on a list under the surveillance of the World Anti-Doping Agency, making it absolutely necessary to adapt national legislation to the new World Anti-Doping Code. The drafting of the proposal for the new law results, and it is essential to say it, in a complex and prolonged negotiation process with the World Anti-Doping Agency. Finally, we state that this bill has had the positive opinion of the entities of the sector, of all the entities heard as members of the Permanent Commission of the National Sport Council, and therefore, in the face of the above, we believe that this proposal will not only deserve confidence as the approval of this House so that, in Portugal too, we continue to follow this path of combat against doping, not only in the defence of sports integrity, but also, and very important, in the defence of our public health. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u88	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not record any registration to intervene. [[Pause.]] You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Émídio Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has asked the Conference of Leaders to schedule this diploma with debate and vote in general, in the specialty, as well as a comprehensive final vote, of trust. Parliament cannot therefore hold the debate with the weight it deserves. This haste can only be explained by the incompetence of the Government. Let's see. Already in 2019, during the last changes to the anti-doping code, we all knew that a profound change to the World Code was under way. It was already known that the new World Code would enter into force in January 2021. Well, this is September 2021. What has the government been doing all this time? And don't tell us that it was because of the pandemic, in fact, the pandemic time even helped to increase and strengthen cabinet work, due to the absence of sporting events. This is the first question I leave: why were they not able to do this so that the partners and Parliament could do their work with time and weight? Until the members of the National Council of Sport, a privileged consulting body of the Government, were given a very short period of time to speak, from 23 July to 27 July. There, at the request of some of these entities, the deadline was extended to 2 August. The Social Democratic Party knows well the difficulties of negotiations with the World Anti-Doping Agency (AMA ) and does not want to do as the Socialist Party did during the latest revisions of the Code: when it was power, everything had to be approved; when it was opposition, everything had to be rejected. Repeat: PSD doesn't want to be like PS! But, we agree, the methodology chosen does not help. A general debate, by sending the diploma to the competent Commission, would enable the diploma to be cleared of the inconsistencies it contains. Of course, the absurdity of the bill makes direct referrals to the World Anti-Doping Agency Code when it is not binding. The transposition of the World Anti-Doping Agency Code into our legislation makes it binding and legally binding. These referrals, I think, give rise to doubts about constitutional conformity because of legislation. Therefore, Mr President, and for reasons of legal certainty and certainty, which must be particularly demanding in the framework of sanctions, the text should be published in annex to this diploma. In fact, this was one of the PSD's proposals, but we knew minutes before this debate began, that it will not be possible to carry it out, since the services do not accept this proposal. Why? Because there is no Portuguese version of the Code, i.e. the government, beyond being delayed within time limits, did not promote the translation of the Code into Portuguese and, as such, cannot be included in the diploma which the House will approve. This is serious, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! And I would ask your attention: the rules that say, and are several, are clear that "the provisions laid down in 3.2.1.1 of the AMA Code apply". What's this? Where is this? What's this? There is nowhere in our legal order! That is why I would ask your attention, at the right time, as we already realize, to reflect on this in order to create the best legal certainty and certainty. The same can be said of Article 8, Mr President. , paragraph 4, where it is stated that the responsibility of the athlete is objective, i.e., regardless of the athlete's fault. This rule seems to violate the principle without guilt and is also in contradiction with the rest of the diploma, in particular with Article 83. that of the proposal, which provides that there may be elimination of the penalty if there is no fault. In other words, it says something and its opposite, leading to the question: what is the use of this paragraph 4? What is the usefulness of this new paragraph 4, since, in the absence of guilt, sanctions are eliminated or suspended by Article 83. o? This legislative technique is not clear and can pave the way for legal conflicts that no one takes advantage of. The PSD therefore votes against this issue and calls on the other parliamentary groups to follow us. No court will apply this! We may be opening up a path of conflicts that, we know, nobody wants. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As was anticipated by the rules of the new World Anti-Doping Agency Code — I recall, already in force since January this year — we will also have in Portugal, as in the other countries, recreational sport under the height of the fight against doping, i.e. non-federal athletes participating in tests organized by the federations will be subject to the anti-Doping rules. This is a measure to which we agree, since this protects the sporting truth, but above all public health. Mr. Secretary of State, worse than not to legislate is to legislate for English to see. In other words, the Government must commit itself to a significant strengthening of frameworks, resources and means in the ADoP ( Portugal Anti-Doping Authority ) so that this objective can be achieved. We will be careful and, very soon, with the presentation of the State budget for 2022, we will see if this is even to be done or just to be taken into account. In short, a matter like this deserved a more lengthy and thought-provoking debate, which the Government did not want to do either with sports institutions or with Parliament. Incompetence, laziness, let him walk so determined. It is unfortunate that we could contribute more proposals and contributions to strengthen this legislation, which is very important for national sport. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u91	Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u92	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: In fact, the proposal here today represents what we know to be one more step in the fight against doping, in the fight against doping, which we have developed as a country. Basically, I would say that what is noted is that today we appreciate the result of much work, dedicated work, to harmonise national legislation in a single and coherent document that meets our international commitments. Mr Secretary of State, I dare say that if there is anything to highlight in this bill, it is his irrefutable character in defending the values that we all share, in defending and promoting sporting truth. We know that this is certainly not a path that has begun now, but it is certainly a path that once again takes a firm step in the defense of sports values and that once again reinforces Portugal's commitment to the fight against doping. Let me highlight in this diploma the transposition into our legal order of some rules that we point out, in particular: the creation of new acts of violation, such as the threat, intimidation or the exercise of reprisals against witnesses of violations of anti-doping standards; the strengthening of the guarantees of sports practitioners in anti-doping controls; the impossibility of a preventive suspension without the right to defend the athlete; the distinction between recreational substances of the consumption of substances for increased sport income; the possibility of doping control during the completion of the sanction period; and the strengthening of the confidentiality of proceedings, among many others. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would say that in this law it takes some effort, some creativity, some genius to create a focus on controversy, especially because what is at stake is the imperative need to adopt in the domestic legal order the provisions of the World Anti-Doping Code. We already realize that the PSD, apparently, complained that there is no time to discuss and, however, there is a discussion in the specialty, the biggest proposal that brings us here is that we can attach a document in English. Mr President, I have to tell you it's a little bit, it's a little bit for those who say you want to debate! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u93	Pouchinha is your intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u94	What we stress here is the well-doing work done by the government in this area, but basically the sharing and defense of the values of ethics and sport integrity and the path that we have all taken together. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u95	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: I believe that in this debate there is a consensual issue which is, in principle, the need to combat doping in sports, not only to fight for the health of sports practitioners, but also for the sport truth. As far as this is concerned, I think we all agree. In fact, this is a global issue and that is why there is a World Anti-Doping Code and legislation, of course, intends to adapt to that. But the truth is that there is a legal problem, a problem of content. It is obvious that this World Anti-Doping Code is adopted in the sports field and it has to be transposed, that is, it has to have legal function and that is why this bill exists and that is why there is specific legislation to combat doping in sport. It happens that when you expressly refer a legal diploma to this Code, one thing would be to refer to an international convention which was legally ratified by Portugal, but it is not the case, I believe that, legally, there is a problem that must be solved here: or an official translation of this Code, published as an annex to the law, and then it will already have legal force identical to the norm referring to that provision - I believe that it will not be difficult to make an official translation of this World Anti-Doping Code — or, then, a material transposition of what is intended to be referred to the diploma itself. One of these two things must be done. In fact, it is prudent that, while the Assembly is in operation, there is no imperative need for discussion on the subject today, and this discussion can be held next week, in a parliamentary committee, and, having solved the problem, this diploma is brought to plenary for a comprehensive final vote. I think there will be no difficulty in that. What's the content question we put here? Mr Emídio Guerreiro raised a problem that has to do with the objective responsibility of practitioners. The practitioner is duped and, regardless of guilt, there are sanctions. The issue of objective responsibility is an exception, but here is a problem, which is that of sports truth. That is, the athlete is doped, his performance changed the sports truth but he can say "good, I have no fault, because it was the doctor, it was the coach, finally, I didn't know...". The fact is that the sporting results have been altered by this route and this is relevant, and then there are mitigating. But the problem for us is another: Article 85 provides. the, the settlement agreement of the case. In other words, the sport truth has been changed, there is objective responsibility, but the athlete can say « if I cooperate with the process, the problem is solved like this ». So, where does the sports truth lie? Doesn't that count anymore? Therefore our disagreement is not so much in Article 8. if an objective responsibility is established, the problem is, for us, that it is allowed, by means of a negotiation with the anti-doping authorities, to pass a sponge on it and say 'good, the sport truth has changed, but it does not hurt because the athlete collaborated'. It is here that we disagree, because we believe that in penal law things should not work that way, that is to say, in our legal order there should be no such mechanisms for negotiating penalties. And there are those who also talk about this for criminal law in general, with our disagreement. For the same reason we disagree in criminal law, we also disagree in penal law. Therefore our divergence of content in the speciality in this matter has to do with Article 8. the, but more precisely with Article 84. in particular Article 85. o
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u98	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from our point of view, this matter, as has been said, is important, is relevant. The fight against doping in sport is an increasingly present and, in some ways, dominant issue. In fact, we have seen, even at the last Olympic Games, which we have followed, that there were those who could not even compete with your country's name on doping matters. So this is a very important issue. It is also very relevant that Portugal adapts its legislation and what it has in this regard to international standards. It seems that we will be late, but if we are late, the blame lies with those who have not brought this matter before or who have not brought this matter in time and it is obviously not the fault of the Assembly of the Republic. I read the diploma in general and of what Mr. Secretary of State presented here, I can say that we do not have a fundamental objection to the rules, improvements and adaptation of our legislation to these standards. However, there are one or two questions that are relevant and were raised by Mr Emídio Guerreiro and, in some way, accompanied by Mr António Filipe. It is that, contrary to what the Socialist Party said here, this matter is not to raise problems. No one wants to raise any problems! The truth is, when this question was raised at the leadership conference, what was said by the various benches, when it was requested urgency, was that we were available for that urgency, only that there must be good faith. In accepting the urgency, there must be good faith and, now detecting a problem, there must be an answer to that problem. First problem: the question of referring to the provisions, particularly in English, and we do not have that annex included in the diploma itself. In other words, it refers to what says a standard in English, but we do not have that rule included, which means that we do not know very well what is being dealt with. They say there is no translation and can't be in English. I believe, but I don't think it's a problem in the other world to find a translation of the standard in English and to include it in the Portuguese diploma. We are not talking about a norm in Aramaic or Latin, so it will not be very difficult to solve this problem. The second issue that has been addressed here is that of objective responsibility. I understand the intention of objective responsibility. Those who have been watching the sports phenomenon for many years know that it is usually said that it was the doctor, or that he had no knowledge, or that he was taking cough pills. Anyway, I'm going to be exaggerating, but these would be the arguments. Therefore, the intention to have objective responsibility makes sense, however, it must co-operate with the one who is our legal order in general and, in our criminal treatment of this matter, this is not the usual approach, nor the reading of guilt. That implies some weighting. We follow the concern raised by the PSD and reinforced by Mr António Filipe, when he says that in fact the possibility of negotiation in this area raises many doubts. Finally, I wanted to say that, as far as these matters are concerned, more than standards are the conditions and circumstances of their application. That is not what we are discussing here, but I ask: for example, how is our laboratory anti-doping at the end of such a long time not in effect? How are we allowed to delay this matter until we arrive here at this debate, far beyond the hour? [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u100	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u101	I'm done, Mr. President. These issues are more in practice and that is where they are more effective than themselves and strictly within the legislative framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u102	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good day. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I would like to congratulate the Government on the presentation of the bill. The truth is that in the last 20 years, important steps have been taken, from a national and international point of view, in the fight against doping: in 2003, when the World Anti-Doping Agency presents the World Anti-Doping Code ; in 2017, a few years later, when a group of governments is beginning to approve international conventions against doping in sport—a short time after UNESCO also held this debate ; in 2005, in Paris, there were already a number of significant legislative changes ; in 2012, 2015 and also 2019. And now, in 2021, we are again discussing, in general and in specialty, a set of new rights enshrined, for example, to sportsmen in the context of doping control procedures, in particular the guarantee of a previous hearing, regardless of the anti-doping councils may already have matter, in fact, to intervene; a substantial change in the distinction between what was being discussed here, the distinction between what we can technically call doping or other recreational consumption that, regardless of its nature, has a direct involvement in sporting results; and also more robust in the protection of data of the Anti-Doping Authority of Portugal, which protects not only the authority, but above all, sportsmen and those who accompany them. We must not fail to point out that we follow the political principles that are presented here and that, in fact, they come from international discussions around the fight against doping - therefore, it seems to me that this debate is more or less consensual here - but we must not fail to highlight any disillusionment, I would say technically, in the relationship that the Government has decided to have with the Assembly of the Republic in the way in which it puts the debate, not so much about the articulate presented in the bill, but to ensure the effectiveness of this articulation. In particular, I refer to the government's disappointment that there is no material transposition or that there is a direct transposition of the international codes which should be reflected either in the proposed law or at least in a document which could already be translated into Portuguese. Regardless of this, we will try — because that is the will of the Left Block Parliamentary Group — that today, in general and in specialty, there is a speedy solution, because we need to have this law quickly in practice, even if the Government has been a little disillusioned in the way it has dealt with this matter in its relationship with the Assembly of the Republic. from the Left Block, we are convinced that we need to find solutions, either today or in a short time, to ensure that we are not on an impasse, that it is not a political impasse, but it is a legal impasse, or an institutional impasse, and it seems to me that none of the benches have this objective. Therefore, we reiterate our will and willingness. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u104	You have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Youth and Sport, John Paul Rebelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am particularly grateful to the Members. Members who spoke in the discussion of this, I say again, important law for sport truth, for sports integrity and also for public health. I just wanted to leave a few notes here so we could understand each other. Taking the words of Mr. Luís Monteiro and Mr. Emídio Guerreiro, I wanted to say the following: there was no defect here, there was no weakness here on the part of the government, rather on the contrary. Things are what they are, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. This proposal was adopted by the Government in July, and it is clear that it is also not the responsibility of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament closes for holidays. [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]] So two months ago, this happened. Two months ago, this had already happened. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just to make it clear — and in particular, Mr Emídio Guerreiro well knows this, because he even referred to his passage by the government and to the protection of this folder — that negotiations with the World Anti-Doping Agency are very difficult. They are not too long for Portugal, they are very hard for all countries, because it is very difficult, as everyone understands, to find standards that cross-sectionally fit into the various legal frameworks of countries all over the world. So they are very, very difficult, very hard negotiations, necessarily took time. The entire sector, relevant agents and also the Assembly of the Republic was involved. We naturally sought that we could get here with the proposal as soon as possible. Having said this, there is no country, of our knowledge, that would attach the Code to legislation. On the other hand, the only official languages accepted by the World Anti-Doping Agency are English and French. Well, if you and the ladies. Members understand that we have reached the compromise so that, very quickly, in the specialty, some of the rules or referrals to the World Anti-Doping Code which may be included in the law can be translated into some of the rules or references to the World Anti-Doping Code, so the government too is, I would say, calm. Or rather, we all stay calm, because we are not effectively questioning the competitions that we can organize, the competitions in which our athletes can participate. This would have to happen, necessarily in very little time, I would say, within the limit until the end of this month. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u106	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, they will certainly agree that this issue is closed by the Government, since it is a proposal from the Government. Thus, the entries for requests for intervention which have now been requested from the Bureau must have been before the intervention of the Government, as you can understand. If there is consensus, it will not be the Bureau to prevent progress, but this has been the precedent, let us agree. I would therefore like to draw attention to why this registration should have been requested before the intervention of the Government, and not now. Mr Telmo Correia is asking for the floor. Please help us solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u107	Mr. President, I'll try. The question is that, according to the final intervention of the Secretary of State, as far as I understand it, it was mentioned the willingness to move forward with this matter to the headquarters of speciality — not today, as is provided for in our agenda, but in a very short period of time. That is all we need to clarify. In other words, if so, we will proceed today only to the general vote, and then this diploma will go to the specialty, with the commitment of all the banks, I believe that I respect the suggestion of the Secretary of State, that this work in the specialty will have to be done by the end of this month. Mr President, that is the only point worth clarifying and not more than that.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u108	If I am allowed, I understand, at a distance, by the body language of Mr. Secretary of State, that there is an announcement precisely in this regard. Mr. Secretary of State Duarte Cordeiro, please speak to clarify this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u109	Mr. President, that is exactly the case.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u110	So everything is clarified, so I think we can move on to the next point in our agenda. We enter the third point of our agenda, with the debate of Resolution Projects Nos 1438 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Guarantee of access to extraordinary support by unemployed and self-employed persons and 929 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — extension of the period for the guarantee of unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit. To present the initiative of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problem we are discussing here today is, to a large extent, the pandemic, of course, but also the wrong and unjust rules of the State budget for 2021. In January, thousands of people, about 40 000, were deprived of their unemployment benefits and were not entitled to extend. Many independent workers also saw themselves in their arms with confusion, bureaucracy, delays, insufficiency of extraordinary support for the Income of Workers (AERT), which was entered in the Budget. In February, the social mobilization of unemployed workers achieved an important victory: it ensured that about 22 000 people whose social unemployment benefit had ceased, were not left without support, maintaining a value equivalent to that of the social unemployment benefit for another six months. The State budget, let us remember, did not provide for an extension of the social allowance, but only of the unemployment allowance, and therefore this was a very important oxygen balloon. The problem is that this oxygen balloon was six months long, and that deadline is over. Independent workers were also able to resume support for 2020, which was resourceless, but that support also ended with the end of the state of emergency. And so now that this extraordinary measure has come to an end, what do we have? What happened? This happened: in this month of September, since day 9, thousands of workers are receiving messages with the result of their support. They — and above all — had €438 and were subject to a relentless and unfair condition of resources. There are workers who have simply lost the right to support because of the application of this condition of resources. Others — especially workers, mothers, whom companies did not want to give more jobs because they did not want to give jobs to women who could have to stay home with their children if they returned to a situation of confinement — had brutal cuts. They received €438 and then received €319 / month, €213 / month, €186, €20/ month, €170 / month, €152 / month, €50/ month. In fact, 50 € / month is the minimum value of the extraordinary support that, at the moment, the workers receive and that was registered in the Budget. This is totally unfair! This doesn't make any sense and it's a shame! In addition to absurd injustices, there were people who received an answer saying that the value of support was zero euros. Now, if it was zero euros, they had no support. They say the workers, who submitted a petition to Parliament in September, the following: « We have people who have run out of gas and have no way to buy any more; there are those who only have money to buy grain to feed themselves. What country did you promise to help us and now you've seen our backs? Do not keep on seeking. ” It's not right. There are huge numbers of people who are currently unprotected. And, in fact, in July, the Left Block had warned that this would happen, because this extraordinary support had that period of six months which, in the meantime, ended and the resource condition of the current support would exclude thousands of people and put others to receive completely absurd values. This is a serious and worrying situation, which must be given an immediate response within the framework of social emergency measures. That is why we insist on three simple measures which the Government must take immediately. First of all, we propose that we resume and extend exceptionally until the end of the year—then we will have the debate on the Budget, on extraordinary measures, but at least extend until the end of the year—the value these workers were receiving, because they are not unemployed because they want to, they just cannot find work. Secondly, we propose that the social unemployment allowance be extended by the end of 2021 and the unemployment allowance be extended to those who, in the meantime, see this support cease. Finally, we propose that the support that existed during the state of emergency to self-employed workers who did not have the condition of resources be resumed because these workers are also in this new AERT to receive ridiculous values and subject to a condition of resources that is totally unfair. These are our proposals and I think it is a priority that this Parliament should not discard. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u112	You have the floor to present the initiative of your Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira, DOS Verdes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting BE for having scheduled for discussion his project on ensuring access to extraordinary support by unemployed and self-employed. I welcome this not only because it is important for us, but also because it has allowed us to drag our proposal, which aims to extend the time limit for guaranteeing unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit. In fact, under the law which approved the State budget for 2021, the periods for granting the unemployment allowance ending in 2021 are exceptionally extended for six months. In the Greens' perspective, however, the extension of the deadline is an important step in meeting the objective needs of thousands of people who are unemployed and who, as a result, live each day in real distress and anxiety. This situation is aggravated by the economic and social crisis we are experiencing and the serious difficulties these workers are having to find employment in the current pandemic context, particularly at a time when many companies were forced to suspend their activity. It follows that this extension of the deadline excludes thousands of workers whose unemployment allowance ceased last December 31st. In addition, the extraordinary extension for more than six months provided for in the State budget for 2021 does not cover workers who are receiving social unemployment benefits and who end up in the course of 2021 or who have ended at the end of last year. It is recalled that, in March of last year, at the first wave of the pandemic, unemployment benefit and social unemployment subsidies were initially extended until 30 June 2020 and then automatically extended until 31 December of the same year. In the face of the current exclusion, there are thousands of workers who, without work and without support, find themselves in a situation of great economic fragility and, in many cases, without any income or support in order to be able to bear the most basic expenses, such as household income, water, light and gas. On the other hand, persons facing the end of the time limit for the allocation of social unemployment benefit are also prevented from requesting support for long-term unemployed, since it is attributed only to those who have exhausted the period of granting social unemployment benefit 180 days ago. There is therefore an emptiness in the protection of these people, who have, in fact, vehemently challenged the situation in which they are, and the Greens consider it urgent that the Government, as has also occurred during 2020, ensure the protection of the unemployed either by extending the unemployment allowance or social unemployment allowances. For this reason, the Greens are discussing this proposal, which basically aims to recommend to the Government that the period of granting the social unemployment allowance be extended exceptionally for six months, which has ceased in December 2020 or is ending in 2021 ; that it should extend the extension of the unemployment allowance for six months to those who are unemployed whose grant period has ended in December ; and that it should end up reducing the current 180-day period, which is required to provide support to the long-term unemployed for 60 days, which has been recorded from the date on which the period of granting the social unemployment allowance has ended. This is the proposal that the Greens bring for discussion and that comes to bring some social justice, as well as the BE proposal, in which we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u114	We shall then enter into the debate on these two initiatives. The first intervention will be that of the NAP. Mr Nelson Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Due to the high rates of vaccination, the country's economic situation and the economic impact given by the approval of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), our country has better prospects for economic growth, with even forecasts that tell us that the wealth level of 2019, destroyed by the health crisis, will be recovered next year. But if the prospects for the future are good, that does not mean that we should not be cautious about the present. At present, the social crisis is still present. Officially, there are still 341,000 people unemployed outside the country and several are people who, although outside official statistics, are in a very fragile social situation. The debate today is precisely about the support for these people in a very fragile social situation, an objective to which, since the beginning of the health crisis, the NAP has always been present with the presentation of concrete proposals and with the vote in favour of proposals from other parties. That is how we will proceed in today's debate. These are proposals to establish justice and it is regrettable that they have not already been adopted by the government, although this does not surprise us, if we take into account that this is the same government that made our country the third country in the euro area which has spent less on combating the health crisis and its social impact. In view of the crisis situation in which we are living, it is not acceptable that, at the moment, such strict requirements on the condition of resources are provided under the Extraordinary Workers' Income Support, to such an extent that a family which, before the crisis, had two €800 wages and, with the crisis, would lose one of these wages in independent work, no longer have such support. Moreover, this support may be worth €50, something that squeaks the indigentity. That is, 5000 people in a fragile situation have this essential support at risk, if the government does not do so. But if the government does nothing, there are thousands of people who will lose their social unemployment allowance due to the end of the exceptional period created with the health crisis and, as if that were not bad enough, these people are prevented from requesting support from long-term unemployed, who have not exhausted the social unemployment allowance for more than 180 days, as required by law. Thus, more than the vote in favour, the NAP leaves its appeal to the Government to quickly approve the extension of the support measures which Parliament is discussing today. The Government cannot successfully begin the discussion of the next State budget and the terms of economic recovery if it continues to be unable to respond to the problems of the present and the social crisis. This is why the NAP will vote in favour of the proposals under discussion today. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u116	You have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Pedro Morais Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of the past Legislative Session, we discussed a draft resolution of content very similar to this, i.e. extension until the end of the year of extraordinary support. As you can see, it's still the same if it's not worse. In fact, these draft resolutions are presented and discussed today because there are support that the State is reluctant to grant to the solovans, making it difficult to access them through bureaucracy or simply not granting them. We could also talk about numerous situations of error in processing, miscalculation and bureaucracy that have affected thousands and thousands of Portuguese. Mr President, in addition to the self-employed, the unemployed and many of these people who are undergoing drastic situations, the CDS has repeatedly warned over the past year about the need to support the economy as well and protect employment by promoting the country's ability to re-establish itself, not wasting opportunities and labour force. The mirror of this workforce is precisely the employers and the managers, who built the Portuguese business fabric, composed mostly of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, generating jobs, yes, throughout the national territory. We must not forget that those who create jobs are businesses, they are entrepreneurs. Despite the numerous announcements made by the Government on the launch of programmes and measures to support economic recovery, the implementation of these announcements did not correspond to the speed required for the launch and implementation of these programmes, nor to the need for support for all these sectors, often leading many entrepreneurs to despair, without solution. Many of them, unfortunately, had to close doors. The current management partner support scheme, also by the defined criteria and limits, has been the target of severe criticism by entrepreneurs, associations of entrepreneurs representing the sector, indicating that the measures are, in fact, clearly insufficient as a response. Mr President, also within the last State budget, an increase was approved at the minimum unemployment allowance limit in order to reach the minimum value corresponding to 1, 15 of the IAS ( indexing of social support ). It understood the CDS that it should be extended to the end-of-activity allowance and to the end-of-work allowance. We therefore tabled a proposal for an amendment and it was unfortunately rejected. Despite the fact that the measure had not been adopted, we believe that it continued to be timely. So in February, we again took this proposal to the vote, and it was rejected, with the votes of the PS. Approximating the presentation and discussion of the next State Budget, it is important to know whether the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security will or will not be available to increase the minimum threshold of end-of-activity allowances to 1, 15 of the IAS, i.e. to move from such 397, 86 € to 457 € or 454 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u118	Mr President, please conclude your statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u119	It is essential for those who are unemployed and going through many difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u120	You have the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by saying that the CFP will follow the proposals to help solve problems posed to many workers and their families, whether they are independent workers or they are workers on behalf of others, depending on the consequences of the epidemiological situation by which the country has been going through for many months. We will therefore follow up with the draft resolutions which were presented today and which are being discussed either by BE or by ENP. For the CFP, it was always a fundamental issue that, in this pandemic framework, there was no less right. We have adopted this insignia and we have always sought to present proposals in the Assembly of the Republic in order to address the social and remuneration problems resulting from the pandemic, such as the dismissals that occurred, in which people fell into involuntary state of dismissal, justified by the pandemic or taxes on the pretext of the pandemic. Therefore, always in the beatings so that there would be no lack of public support for these people, as well as that there would be no lack of support for independent workers who would see themselves in the same situation, due to the cessation of activity to which they were forced. So we did, in particular in the amending budget for 2020, in which we considered that the problems that many of these people were facing were not actually solved, as they were supposed to do and how they should have been done. Also in the State budget for 2021, the CFP fought for the approval of proposals that sought to resolve or at least to address the most serious social situations resulting from the pandemic. in this sense, that being our position, of course, with proposals that make recommendations to the Government — of course, we all know the limitations that this regulatory figure entails — we will follow the recommendations that are made. Obviously, the draft resolutions that are being discussed today will count on the positive vote of the Portuguese Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u123	We now give the floor to Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u124	Mr President: It is more than clear that the extraordinary support for workers'income, created by the Government and envisaged in the State budget for 2021, continues not to give the most basic answer to those who need the most precise, due to the requirements required, by the bureaucracy that triggers. The problem is that it gets worse in the case of self-employed people. The process in force is slow, slow, complex and bureaucratic and does not correspond to the real need, urgency and difficulty of the Portuguese. They are realities like this that dismantle the government's narrative that everything is all right, that the country goes from wind to wind, that the future is laughter. Portugal is going through a difficult time and the government should talk less and work more. The Left Block, which has given all support to this government, is complicit in this black and tragic reality, although the concern naturally occurs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u125	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cristina Mendes da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is fully aware that we are living very difficult times and that all means are few to bring justice to the people most affected by this pandemic. We believe that the worst has already happened and that the economic recovery will be a reality that will enable companies to recover and families and workers the opportunity to resume their lives. in this sense, the draft resolutions discussed here contain concern about workers and people in unemployment who have been deprived of their income due to the economic and social crisis caused by the pandemic. However, we would like to reinforce two ideas. First of all, the concerns of the Left and Green bloc are the concerns of the Socialist Party and the Government, because we are all concerned with the needs of the workers and people who are unemployed and are solidarity and solidarity with the complex and unexpected situations that many citizens and citizens have faced during this pandemic. Secondly, it is an unmistakable reality that the Government has approved extraordinary measures, which have been modified and adjusted to monitor the evolution of the pandemic, in an effort to combine structural social protection with new forms of support, markedly conjunctural, and that have responded to all people in different situations, some of them new and very complicated. It is therefore important to remember that the extraordinary support of the COVID-19 has already benefited 3 million Portuguese, a total of EUR 4.5 billion, and that the Government has ensured constant monitoring of the social impacts of the pandemic, allowing an adjustment of these support, accompanying the evolution of the pandemic and the economy. This effort to combine structural social protection with new forms of citizen support, markedly conjunctural, has enabled the protection of employment at the same time as supporting families with broken income, reducing the economic and social impacts of the pandemic. contrary to the previous crisis, where unemployment has now reached 20 %, the unemployment level is 6 %, 6 %. It is also important to note that, at the same time, we fight illegal redundancies by strengthening the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ) with an increase in labour inspectors — for the first time, fulfilling the International Labour Organisation ( ILO) ratios and attributing the executive power to suspend illegal redundancies — and we are promoting the strengthening of labour judgments. However, for the Socialist Party, the only effective protection of Portuguese in unemployment is employment; it is decent and not precarious employment. in this context of promoting employment, we reviewed active employment policies, promoting contracts without end, and we took extraordinary measures to protect employment in this pandemic period, having Portugal, in the second quarter of 2021, reached the highest employment value of the decade, since 2011. It is therefore important to clarify that the families and the workers whom the Left Block wants to protect, in particular by extending the unemployment benefit or social unemployment benefit, have already guaranteed their social protection by means of measures which the Government is already implementing, in particular by extending the unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit which we approved in the 2021 budget and by providing extraordinary support for the workers' income.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u127	You've run out!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u128	The Government of the Socialist Party supports families, workers, unemployed persons and businesses, and the extraordinary measures and support approved saved jobs and protected all workers. It is important to remember that only in terms of layoff, 1 million and 224 thousand workers were supported and about 118 thousand companies. And, in support of the progressive recovery and encouragement to normalisation, 1 million and 97 thousand workers and about 140,000 companies were supported. Of course, we cannot forget all the extraordinary social support measures that have responded to around 3 million beneficiaries. We are talking about measures to support the family, to supplement stabilization, to supplement family allowances, to extend social benefits, to support self-employed workers, to support management partners, to reduce and to provide extraordinary support to workers' income. Thus, no one has been unprotected and no one is no longer protected by the measures that the government already has in place and which can always improve, adapting them to the needs. For the Socialist Party, the social state is a priority and social justice the greatest manifestation of a democratic state, where freedom and respect for the other are the mission of those who provide public service and know that resources are scarce and that we must have as the primacy of that social justice, especially when we are going through a pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u129	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ofélia Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft resolutions that we are discussing today recommend to the Government the extension and extension of the scope of the social unemployment allowance, unemployment allowance and also the Extraordinary Workers' Income Support, as well as the reduction of the guarantee periods of support for long-term unemployed and the re-sustainment of support for the reduction of economic activity. The PSD Parliamentary Group generally accompanies the concerns underlying these draft resolutions, because Portugal is one of the countries most affected by the pandemic crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u131	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u132	Despite this, in 2020, it was the third country in the euro area that had less invested in response to the pandemic crisis and in 2021 continued to be one of the countries of Europe which had less invested in the response to the crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u133	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u134	in an economic and social crisis like the one we are facing today, it must be two main priorities of the government. One of the priorities is the rapid recovery of the economy, businesses and productive capacity. This is the most effective way of creating jobs. The more employability, the better the conditions and the quality of life of people. The other priority, as important as the first, is the social protection of the most unprotected, that is, of all those who are deprived of income and social support. And here, the government must fulfil its role as the principal guarantor of the social state. No one can stay behind, no one can get below the minimum of human dignity, regardless of their working condition or regardless of their contribution situation. The Government has already indicated that, in view of the economic recovery, support for businesses and social support will be discontinued. But the government that doesn't rush and create this illusion! Given the strong impacts of the economic and social crisis and knowing that the recovery of the economy will be slow, we have no doubt that the difficulties of companies and the difficulties of families will continue for a while longer. in this context, we understand that the sudden end of support can leave many families at risk, can push the closure of many companies and the sudden growth of unemployment, with the consequent loss of income of families. If the government does not wager a real strategy to combat the economic and social effects of the pandemic crisis, what we can expect is to exacerbate social inequalities and the risks of poverty. Therefore, the draft resolutions that are being discussed today, along with the desire that we all have to guarantee social support to all those who need them, deserve and require a reflection on what people want for their lives and the lives of their children. And what they want is certainly not to survive with what little the government can give them. It is certainly not because they live on promises of support that are not enough or that are slow to arrive. There is no doubt that there is a situation of unemployment, a situation of precarious work and low wages. The fight against poverty is not only giving more and more support, but also having an economic and business structure capable of promoting more and better employment, either reducing its precariousness or increasing workers' wages. Only in this way can we guarantee better conditions and quality of life for people and their families. For left-wing parties, the fight against poverty caused by the pandemic crisis is unique and exclusively due to providing more social support, in an attempt to remain all dependent on the state and in an attempt to remove all life prospects for people, eliminating the so-called "social elevator". The Portuguese want and deserve more. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, just over a month ago, this House had the opportunity to deliberate on two draft resolutions that have exactly the same content as the one we are discussing today. It remains to be said, therefore, that this left-wing bloc initiative does not go through a populist, electoral and political maneuver, to which the left-wing parties have already used us at this time of pre-discussion and negotiation of the State budget, aggravated by the elections this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u136	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u137	the government and the left-wing parties that support the government only heard a list of promises and demands, all of them with budgetary costs, and we did not hear a measure to promote our economy and its competitiveness. Finally, saying that the PSD is not against social support, it is not against strengthening social support. On the contrary, it's in favour. The PSD is against unemployment and low wages, it is against corporate bankruptcy and it is against the lack of competitiveness of our economy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u138	For the closure of this item on our agenda, on behalf of the Bloc de Left, a proposing party, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to leave aside the comment on the regrettable, disproposed and political considerations of Mrs Ofélia Ramos, and we are not going to discuss, I believe, the layoff or the family support measures, because that is not what we are discussing here — they existed and had another scope. We are at a time when, hopefully, the worst of the health crisis has passed. We're waiting for that. The problem is that the situation of those who did not have and do not have jobs is the same. In fact, it is worse, because those who did not have a job had access to the extension of support until August, and no longer have. This means that the situation for these people today is not better, even if the health situation is better. The situation for these people is worse than it was two months ago and three months ago, because they no longer have support or support with ridiculous values. This is what we're discussing here. This situation is not a surprise. When the six-month extension was approved, we already knew there would be a moment— precisely in August—in which people would have the information that their support had ceased to exist. That is why, in July, we brought here an initiative precisely to extend support at that time and not allow people to remain in this situation. at that time, in July, when we brought this measure to Parliament — in anticipation of the problem that we all knew was going to happen, because the deadline was, to the extent of extension, the Socialist Party voted against and the PSD, abstained, guaranteed the lead of this measure. He therefore guaranteed that these people would remain in this situation. [[PSD protests.]] So when the PSD says that it agrees and generally accompanies this proposal, I ask: what is it to follow in general? [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Overall, is it ensuring the lead of the proposal and, therefore, workers will be without support or will they continue to receive the €50, €1900, €213? Or is the PSD going to change its position — which we would welcome if we did — and will it approve?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u140	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u141	That is why, and with this ending, Mr President, we are not in a situation where support can be discontinued, as mentioned above, and can leave people in a situation of distress. That's already happened! They've been discontinued! The situation of distress is the situation that people are living now. It is for this situation that people are living now that we need answers. That's the appeal the Left Block here leaves. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u142	We thus end the third point of our agenda and move on to the fourth and final point — to which two points are followed without time for discussion —, which consists in the general assessment of Bills No. 909 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Changes to the urban lease regime, 930 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Alter the urban lease regime and the exceptional regime for situations of default in the payment of income under the COVID-19 pandemic, 933 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Strengthens the protection of the right to housing of elderly persons ( Eighth amendment to NRAU and first amendment to Law No 13 / 2019 of 12 February ), 934 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Recognition of lease contracts ( Eighth amendment to the New Urban Rent Scheme) and 935 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Stability in lease contracts ( Septuagint eighth amendment to the Civil Code ). To present the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiative presented by the CFP today is a structured, comprehensive and effective response to the serious problems that continue to affect thousands and thousands of people, in the context of housing and particularly in renting. The urban lease regime has for many years been a factor of injustice and an obstacle to the full fulfilment of the right to housing and much more serious has been since the approval of Law No. 31/2012, which became known as the infamous « law of evictions», of the Government and of the majority PSD / CDS of Passos Coelho, Paulo Portas e Assumption Cristas. This law, with the multiple factors of injustice, arbitrariness, conflict that came to bring to lease, continues to motivate deep concerns and problems in people's lives. It is a fact that the small amendments which were introduced during the previous legislation have allowed to mitigate the most harmful effects of that law, but it is no less true than serious factors of discretion, of which is the example of the so-called National Rent Balcão, if they are currently in force. All this and more could be added to the matter already assumed the greatest severity before the outbreak of the COVID-19. It is no less true that the epidemic, with its procession of social and economic impacts, with emphasis on the high number of families living situations close to extreme exclusion, has made the differences between the weak resources of the vast majority of housing tenants and the great interests linked to the financing of the real estate even more grueling. The response to these problems has not only been deeply short of the country's needs, as it has its end in view and demands an effective and urgent political decision. The proposal of the CFP includes the amendment to that « waste law », but also includes the amendment to the Civil Code, where much is defined in terms of renting, as well as the so-called « urban lease arrangement regime », Decree-Law No 160 / 2006, also amended in 2012, when « redundancy law », by PSD / CDS. We present proposals to extinguish the National Rental Balcony, the so-called "dispatch shop" ; to prevent, especially in the current pandemic situation, the bank accounts of the tenant, despite the renting income moratorium; to provide social monitoring guarantees in the clearance situations and to ensure the suspension of the waste whenever there is a serious social risk, until alternative solution is found; to maintain the situation of suspension and delivery of the tenants until 31 December, now I have as a reference of the country to reach the group immunity; and to defend the stability and security of the contract, even if completed in the right time, with an initial duration of five years, with minimum automatic renewals of three years, if none of the parties manifest their opposition in the form and time limit set out in the law. We can also refer to other measures, such as: prevent the expiry of the lease contract by the fact that it has been concluded with usufruary, legal representative, head of inheritance couple, guardian, curator or similar figure, or, moreover, on the basis of a temporary right or in the administration of other goods; prevent the refusal, at the end of the contract, of the refund of the amounts delivered as collateral; end the abusive requirements, damage to privacy, rest and quiet of the rent, as regards the showing of the place located when in a final contract situation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are some of the amendments, corresponding to the essentials of what we propose with this draft law. It is evidence that the right to housing will not be resolved without increasing the public offer of large-scale housing, with the central State taking on its responsibilities in concrete terms and not with options to subsidize real estate speculation. That is why we have come to say that changing the urban lease regime is a necessary measure, but not enough. More than a symbolic contribution to demonstrate that it is possible to move forward with the necessary answers, this CFP initiative is already a challenge that is being posed to the various political forces and to the government. At this time we have seen an intense media operation to announce until the « allowed scenario », according to the usual « government sources », a possible delay in the implementation of the « waste law », in particular for contracts prior to 1990, by pushing the problem forward but leaving the threat to the future of thousands and thousands of families. Well, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the courage to face up to the problem and not to promise to push it forward. We are here with the concrete opportunity, with the scheduling of the debate on this subject promoted by the CFP in this House, to approve the measures in the legislation that actually solve this problem and this threat. That is why the question now is very simple, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Who votes in favour? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u144	Also to present the legislative initiative of your parliamentary group, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no doubt about the enormous challenge that has been, in recent years, the full fulfilment of a fundamental right provided for in our Constitution, the so-called first right, the right to housing. There is also no doubt about the role that the NAP has always had in defending the rights of housing tenants, and in particular during this health crisis. But if we have no doubt as to which side the NAP is in this debate, we can also have no doubt that the NAP has always been guided by a position capable of identifying and protecting the most fragile side, without compromising the necessary balance of the interests of both sides of this contractual relationship. However, the initiative presented by the CFP, in our view, sins precisely by falling into this mistake by following a path of manifestly counterproductive imbalance and excessive burden on one of the parties, thus disincentivizing any owner to conclude housing leases. More: I would say until, ignoring the interests of small owners, when we refer the lease as a solution only for large investor groups or even the big owners' nuclei, we forget this imbalance, which ends up once again prevailing and protecting the financial interests of large economic groups. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not in our view that we defend people's right to housing. The guarantee of the right to housing, based on the principle that all people, without any discrimination, have the right to a roof, to a decent housing, is undoubtedly a public responsibility. Therefore, the answers will also have to be public and must be given at all levels, convening all sectors, including private ones. This is an example of local accommodation, which can also play an important role in this response today, with public support, for example for the Housing First programs, to remove people in homeless situations from the streets. These answers can be, on the one hand, affordable rental and rehabilitation policies of the public building, and even construction. In fact, the State and local authorities are owners of a vast public heritage that is unknown, not knowing in fact what they have, which can and should respond to this need. One cannot fall into the same usual errors of segregation of social housing, but rather be guided by true integration, because, it is emphasized, housing is a right and not a luxury. On the other hand, as the NAP foresees in its initiative, effective guarantees of response and social follow-up throughout the clearance process are essential, thus ensuring that this balcony is not a mere administrative bureaucracy, but that it prevents evictions, in case of action that falls on public or municipal housing, of persons or families in situations of social vulnerability, without prior guarantees of adequate and dignified resettlement solutions to the entire family aggregate. And here, when we speak in the whole family aggregate, we talk about all the people who make up it, including the animals that make up this family nucleus, who are increasingly considered an integral part of the family, instead of attending, as demonstrated by the complaints that come to us, the assistants who encourage people to deliver the animals to the official collection centres, thus promoting abandonment, rather than promoting the continuity of the animal within the family. The State will never abandon the follow-up of these families until it fully fulfils its right to housing. Nor can we forget that it is essential to resolve other intrinsically related problems. The problems of access to housing do not begin and end up on the walls of a house. New labour policies are crucial, in order to end the precariousness of young people, the low wages and the accompaniment we have seen of the national average order in relation to the national minimum order. Young people, who are in precarious jobs, with low wages, in large urban centres, are forced to set their lives there and, consequently, their housing, in a deeply deregulated real estate market, aggravated not only by tourism and real estate speculation, but also, let us not forget, by policies that do not support our young people. That is why this debate, a huge challenge ahead of us, cannot be cleared with the mere mention of the PRR and even less with the path that has been chosen, so far, by the government, which is also inflexible in relation to the owners.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u146	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u147	I really am concluding, Mr President. I reinforce that the right to housing is a fundamental right, such as the right to health or education. If we fail to realize that the latter two are not being defended, why should we place, as has been done by successive governments, constantly the first right in the background? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u148	To present the three initiatives of the Left Block, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill to liberalize the law of rent, which the well-known "law of evictions" of Assunção Cristas crowned, has left thousands of people unprotected. in this deprotection there was a particularly dangerous standard: the protection clauses were constructed in order to allow all kinds of abuses. The transition of contracts was deliberately machiavellian. This law acted like a guillotine, which broke in one month — attention, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I repeat, one month — contracts with more than 22 years of existence. Imagine a person who was 89 years old in 2020 who saw him withdraw the possibility of invoking the protection of the law when, in April 2013, 82 years old at the time and more than 60 years of life at that house, he did not respond in 30 days to the letter sent, claiming that he would be over 65 years old, as a form of opposition. This seems balanced to you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! Well, not us! Not to us, and also to the Constitutional Court, which is particularly clear on this matter. The vast majority of the transitions of old contracts were made illegally, without the due legal and social protection of tenants, and led to the updating of incomes and deadlines for contracts that should not have occurred. This is an insanable debt of the State to these people, who made aggression to older people their policy, in this right-wing government, which not only ran the constitutional right to housing, as it ransacked the protection of age, trust and legal certainty. To insist on maintaining these material inequalities between equal things should embarrass this House and is mainly the elimination of this legal differentiation of persons in terms of material equality, treated differently before the law, which we have come to propose. This is the correction of an injustice that the Socialist Party, in 2019, forced itself to remain once again through harsh legal manoeuvres. We therefore propose that the 15 years of experience in the house and age be considered in all situations at the time when communication from the landlord is received. This will ensure that, in fact, all persons over 65 years of age today, or when they have received the eviction letter, and who have lived in the same place for more than 15 years, regardless of the type of contract they have wrongly drawn up, have protection of the right to housing and age. We also propose that it be assumed that this was a mistake and that there are no material conditions granted by society and the State in guaranteeing the right to housing today, nullifying the transition period which has come to be successively, and well, protected. We also present two other projects that perform stability and protection in the lease. One of them is in the sense that formal recognition, by means of expediency and to the extent of leasers, of oral leases, which must be converted into writing and guaranteed all rights expressed in the law, is carried out. The other is that there are no housing contracts under five years and that renewals are made for that same period, as was indeed understanding of the left and the Socialist Party itself at the time of the vote in 2012 when the minimum period of housing contracts is withdrawn. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the housing crisis that the right has depoled, from 2012 onwards, is now ahead of us. The liberalized market did not solve it, unlike the prophecies, only came to an in-depth conclusion. Prioritizing and responding to the housing problem is, at least, recovering the positions and intuitions we had already in 2012 : contracts for a minimum period of five years, such as, for example, the neighbouring Spanish State already does, or the Socialist Party defended in 2012, and hearing at least the Constitutional Court. That is simply what the Left Block is proposing this morning, with all the justice that seems to us to be delayed to bring about these situations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u150	Let us now get into the debate of these bills. The first intervention to this effect lies with Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here once again discussing changes to the urban lease regime, these changes that are no more than an attempt to return to the past. A past of low, frozen incomes, a binding regime, is true, but also a past of degraded houses, without minimum living conditions, emptying and degradation of large urban centers. A past of household indebtedness for the acquisition of home, low mobility of people, with labour market consequences and access to employment. The stability of the lease does not change with subsequent changes to the law, it is not achieved with ideologies, it is achieved, yes, creating conditions for the lease market to increase in our country, as is the case in most European countries. What the PCP and the Left Block should do in this regard was to require the Government to comply with the electoral promises it has made since 2016. We are systematically confronted with government propaganda, Mr President. I would also like to note that the IRHU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabitação Urbana, I.P. ) it has signed more collaboration agreements with local authorities within the framework of Programme 1. the law and the amounts involved, but so far and since the program was launched in 2018, we have no news of the number of families that actually saw their housing problem worth solving. Now it is also the European bazauca that will solve all the problems of housing in Portugal, as we have seen the Prime Minister announce in this election campaign. Mrs. Members, it is the State which is responsible for the protection of the right, to everyone, to a decent housing, at affordable prices. We cannot continue to want you to have this function solely. Law No. 31 / 2012, which the left is so critical and wants to revoke, brought a great reform to the regime applicable to urban leases, with the firm purpose of dynamizing the market, rehabilitating our cities and, by the way, releasing the landlords and owners of a law or a poorly hidden social action to which they were forced by law, especially the oldest leases. The projects under discussion, Mr President, at nothing contribute to this and it is not just us, CDS, to say so. We could read the opinion that DECO (Portuguese Consumer Protection Association) makes. In short, what the DECO tells us is what the CDS has also been saying, and has already said so many times, stating that anyone who wants a lease market capable of providing a response to housing needs cannot, in any way, force the landlords to give social answers that only the state can give. And not even the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities is able to give a favorable opinion to the PCP initiative, which it considers immature and irreflective. And we add that it is an initiative that is only understood that exists at the time of the electoral campaign that we live. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the last few decades have shown that this view on the left is completely wrong and we cannot share it, because we want the lease market to grow, yes, and above all it has stability, contrary to the solutions presented here on the left. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u152	You now have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Begonha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate in which we appreciate several projects about the challenges that prevail over the urban lease and the protection of tenants, we cannot fail to remember the route we made, which was also downgraded here. Housing, the right to housing, is, since 2015, a priority and to achieve it was necessary and urgent a break with a right-wing governance, which, with conviction leaving housing for the market and the liberalisation of incomes, has in fact caused tragic social consequences just for the poorest and the most unprotected, consequences that we are still feeling and reversing. But that time is over, because the right doesn't have a majority either. Breaking with the time of the liberal solutions on housing, and in which the State resigns itself to intervene, was one of the objectives - even though with differences in solutions and rhythms, as this debate also reveals — in which it was possible to achieve often understanding between the left parties, for the benefit of the protection of those who rent home, against the evictions, against the abuse of landlords, against wild speculation, against the inappropriate prices of housing, without ignoring a balance between the parties — landlords and tenants — which we remain sensitive but without forgetting the situations of injustice and precariousness that still exist in the lease market today. What the PS Parliamentary Group did in the previous government, in the previous legislature, is what the government is doing today and in what this bench is engaged in: a real revolution in housing policy, with an unprecedented public investment in which the State assumes its responsibilities, in which we also take the initiative in terms of protection and changes in urban rental.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u154	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u155	And we don't need to look back, because it was the 2019 legislative amendments, which added the work this Parliament has been doing since 2015, which introduced the most important measures to mitigate and correct the imbalance between tenants and landlords in order to strengthen the stability of the urban lease and protect the situations of greater fragility. That is why this debate cannot overshadow—in spite of the opposition from the right to that path—which we have carried out very recently legislative changes that have taken further, in decades, the protection of tenants, the protection of the right to security in housing and the return of the expectation of some stability of all generations, by combating the informality of the lease market. I would like to highlight just a few points, such as the Rent Injunction Service, the SIM, which has already been regulated so that the tenant can put an end to a set of abuse situations; the prohibition of harassment in the lease; the possibility of the tenant to prove the existence of his lease even without a contract; the reduction of the late payment compensation from 50 % to 20 %, as well as changes to the transitional regime for NRAU (New Urban Rent Scheme). And it was even the Socialist Party in the 2020 budget — in recognition of a problem that they also deal with today, in fact legitimately here — the author of the proposal to amend the income law to extend for another two years the transitional period in contracts prior to 1990 for tenants with financial deficiencies. We have been and are well aware of the impact that the updating of incomes, in accordance with the NRAU, presupposes for a very large set of families in the housing market, as it is still today, and we do not stop acting, as we will not fail to do in the future, in which a solution will be found to protect those who need the most and not by greedful handling. In fact, in a situation of extreme crisis and vulnerability as this pandemic caused, housing was at the heart of the responses of extraordinary support, as it has been at the heart of the country's political and investment priorities. As regards housing leases, loans already granted up to three months after the end of the exceptional scheme in force were extended in the last month of July. But, as we have always assumed, we do not understand that the regimes that by their very nature are exceptional and that were absolutely necessary during the toughest phases of the pandemic should be eternal and we also separated from these projects. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS is fully aware that despite the enormous advances made in the protection of tenants and in the fight against precariousness and abuse, their existence is still very recent. It has not yet been possible to consolidate many of the progress that we have achieved in the formal field, with a concrete translation into people's concrete lives, as we would like. That is why we believe that, rather than the absolutely structural change which defends, for example, the CFP project, it is necessary to let the profound changes made to be consolidated, but to continue with determination the fight against the root of the problem: to continue to strengthen the monitoring of the fulfilment of the legality of the lease and the fight against the informality of the housing market, which prevents many of the existing advances from having a real impact on the conditions of access to housing; to continue, with determination, to continue on the way forward—which it is demagogic to say that it would be done day by day—a path that has led the Portuguese to know that there is one before and one after a majority on the left, one before and one after a majority on the left, one before and one after a socialist government, in the fulfilment of their rights and in the design of the State where it had not yet arrived, to fulfill the desire to exist housing with dignity and accessible to all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u156	The next intervention is for Mrs Marcia Passos, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Civil Code, as well as other legal diplomas, such as the Civil Procedure Code, the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code, are pillars of our legal order, which means that whenever it is intended to move into its rules, the risk of error and mistaking is enormous. This does not mean that it does not change, it means, first, that any change lacks high weight and should not be done in troubled times like those we live in. In 2019, i.e. less than three years ago another major change was made in the lease regime. A change that still causes a lot of ink to run today, in the doctrine and case law, given the difficulties of interpreting many of its rules that have been changed. From 2020 to today, due to the pandemic and the need to find exceptional schemes for the protection of tenants and landlords, special standards have been created and even these, in two years, have been changed numerous times. For example, Law No. 4 - C of April 2020, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been changed seven times. Many of these exceptional rules are still in force. The suspension of evictions, for example, when it comes to a family residence, is still in force today. As the possibility of income being paid in benefits is in effect, for those who have had difficulties due to the pandemic. To change the regime again without even allowing it to stabilize the current moment, without allowing it to end the exceptional regimes, shows little sense. And this is the main reason why we cannot follow the diplomas presented by the PCP, the PAN and the Block because of the lack of opportunity for the times we live in. But there are other reasons. We could never be with you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the attempt to deresponsibility of those who don't pay the rent because they don't want to pay. The CFP proposes and reiterated here—until I thought, when I read, that I would be wrong, but unfortunately I am not — preventing the failure of the tenant's bank accounts, even though he does not pay the rents! Yes, that's it, ladies and gentlemen. Members: the CFP wants a tenant who does not pay the rent, who does not comply with his obligation, to continue to live quietly, without the landlord, his creditor, being able to collect the value that he owes him. This is so unworthy, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, how unbelievable! Then, the CFP, but also here the NAP, present measures, which, to be approved, would increase the judicial expectations, disputes and administrative burden of the proceedings. They want the clearance procedures to be accompanied by reports of social security technicians to determine the conditions of the tenants. Mrs. Members, this is who does not know the reality of the courts and the reality of social security services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u159	... that to make reports in cases as urgent as those of minors take months, but not years, and do reports, often through telephone contacts, without even going to the place, without even seeing what the reality of these families is. There is, at least, no state's bet on social security technicians and now they want to increase the expectations and duration of the proceedings by reporting on the lease procedures. And I ask: but report for what? The State must ensure housing for those in need, whether because it cannot pay income, whether it is unemployed, or because it has had any other unhappiness. This is the function of the government. And it is only because the government fails in housing policies that still exist the fascination of some parties to turn private lease into a social problem. This has been one of the major mistakes of the past, mistakes that have caused the confusion that we constantly live in renting, mistakes that force people to resort to courts so often only to interpret laws that have been misconstrued here in the Assembly of the Republic. Finally, Mr President, these bills are another example of this, but they are unbalanced proposals with a lack of good sense and inopportunity. Therefore, the PSD will not be able to follow them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u160	Mr. Diogo Pacheco of Amorim now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u161	Mr President, the minute I have is not to say much of what I would have to say on this subject, but I leave four notes. The large financial groups linked to real estate are an irony part of the national lease market. Residents in difficulty can and should rely on the support of the State during the period of difficulty. These PCP and BE bills will in time represent the total destruction of the lease market. The real objective is understood to be to destroy the private lease market and to place the State as the sole owner. We all know the disastrous results of this solution, whenever it was followed. I hope it will not be followed up in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u162	You have the floor for an intervention, before the closure of this point, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Pedro Morais Soares and Márcia Passos, already in 2018, the former deputy Assumption Cristas and the current leader of the Social Democratic Party recognized that the law that they had created in 2012 no longer made sense. In addition, I can quote Mr Rui Rio's own statement: 'There must be some stability in the lease, under the penalty of being a hell of a person, who must be constantly moving from home'. Now, I ask the CDS and PSD if they want to go back to 2012 and penalize people, within which they have done so,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u164	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u165	... saying that the painful results we know, Mr. President, and to end, were in fact those who caused sweating and tears to several tenants in this country, who since 2012 have not been protecting the law of rent. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u166	You have the floor for the closure of this point, Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Márcia Passos, for whom she basically has as a proposal and political line to bet on increasing incomes and wild layoffs, has developed here a theory that was unnecessary. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u168	But there is one, I was going to tell a lie, but I can tell you a mistake to the truth, that the honourable Member here has said that it has to do with the imputation she made to the CFP of her intention not to pay the debts because she does not want to. Now, we are talking about well-founded debts and, therefore, the honourable Member, knowing as you know, has deliberately missed the truth in this debate and we cannot let that be clear. On the other hand, it must also be made clear that the failure of the housing park to rent is not particularly related to housing policies, but to economic policies, in which housing has become a by-product of the real estate speculation that you have defended and supported.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u169	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u170	From 1970 to 2011, the percentage of households with their own housing increased from 49 % to 73 % and in the same period the percentage of fires in the lease scheme fell from 46 % to about 21 %. Why? It is very simple: because there was a process of reconstitution of monopoly groups, with the privatization and deregulation of the bank and with the offer of millions and millions, in the form of bonus, to bank credits in the acquisition of housing. And it was about the small percentage of rented housing that the financial capital again affected its action, with the brutal financing of urban housing policies. It is to open up the way to these businesses, to such liberation of the owners, which serves the law of evictions. Who is being sacrificed in a inhumane way? They are the families who are uprooted and expelled from their homes and neighborhoods, pushed by the sacrosanct invisible hand of the market. Is it an inevitability? No, sir. Members, these are political options that are at stake, they are ideologies, when you choose which interests will defend themselves. While some in this debate, such as the PSD, the CDS or the Arrival, once again, presented their deep contempt for people and their followers of economic power,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... others, such as the PS and even the PAN, intend to photograph themselves on the wall, proclaiming a supposed balance that, in fact, comes objectively to help the most powerful and their interests, weakening people in the face of the threat or even the realization of these expulsions from the houses where they live. We are for serious and in-depth thought and debate, which, in fact, did not exist to impose the law of evictions, but we are for the repeal of standards that are inhuman and that continue to infer the lives of people. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the parties are not all the same! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u171	We finish the fourth point on our agenda. As I indicated in the agenda, two points are followed without time for debate, the first being the motion for a resolution No 26 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria amending the Roadmap established by the Air Transport Agreement signed in Lisbon on 3 October 2018, and the second is the Report and Management Account of the Assembly of the Republic for the year 2020. Having made this announcement, we turn to the seventh and last point, which consists of the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I call on the banks to reorganise themselves as quickly as possible to move forward with the votes. Meanwhile, I ask Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo, to do the favor of announcing some initiatives that have, in the meantime, entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u172	Mr. President, I inform the House that they have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr. President, Bills No. 937 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 938 / XIV/ 3. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 941 / XIV/ 3. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission. They also entered, and were admitted, Resolution Projects No. 1447 / XIV / 3. a ( PSD ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1448 / XIV/ 3. a ( ENP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1449 / XIV / 3. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and finally 1450 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 8. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u173	We shall then proceed to the vote. We begin with the Vote Project No. 651 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — regretting the death of Antonio Norton de Matos. I ask Secretary Sofia Araújo to proceed with their reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u174	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died on 22 July António Pedreira de Castro Norton de Matos, founder of the CDS and Member of the Constituent Assembly, elected by the circle of Viana do Castelo. Natural Lisbon, where he was born in February 1935, António Norton de Matos was licensed in chemical engineering and developed extensive professional activity in several national companies, as administrator. It incorporated the engineering team that led the Expo 98 and received a public praise, expressed in Resolution No 5 / 99 of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, for its particular contribution to the design, planning and implementation of the project. In the context of party activity, among many other contributions, led the CDS Democracy newspaper 76. He devoted the last years to agricultural activity in the property of his family, located in Moreira do Lima. Antonio Norton de Matos was a man of strong conviction and an example for those who deprived him. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expressed its deep regret at the death of Antonio Pedreira de Castro Norton de Matos and expressed his deep condolences to the family. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u175	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now move on to the Vote Project No 654 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — I regret the victims in Haiti, whom I would like to ask Secretary Lina Lopes to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u176	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On August 14, Haiti suffered an earthquake with an epicenter at 125 km west of the capital, Port-au-Prince, and, two days ago, on August 16, it was struck by the tropical Grace cyclone, who came to aggravate the humanitarian catastrophe of the earthquake. The result is thousands of displaced persons, up to about 2000 dead and almost 10,000 wounded. Moreover, Haiti, one of the poorest countries in the world, has never recovered from the earthquake that happened 11 years ago, and this earthquake occurs at a time when the country faces the greatest difficulties, not only due to the pandemic of COVID-19, but also due to much violence, increasing poverty and political uncertainty, in the face of the assassination on 7 July by President Jovenel Moses. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its solidarity with the people and authorities of Haiti and presents its deepest condolences to the families of the victims. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u177	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Then we moved on to the Vote Project No. 661 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — I regret the death of Master Michel Corboz. I ask Secretary Sofia Araújo to proceed with their reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u178	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last September 2, at 87 years of age, Michel Corboz, the historic master holder of the Gulbenkian Choir. Born on February 14, 1934 in Marsens, Switzerland, Michel Corboz began to attend the Standard School and then the Freiburg Conservatory, where he studied song and composition. At 27 years of age, he founded the Lausanne Instrumental Ensemble, as well as the Lausanne Vocal Ensemble, from which he would become a headline teacher until 2011 and to whom, affectionately, Corboz referred as “I am a terrible child. ” Between 1976 and 2004, he also assumed the choral direction of the Geneva Music Conservatory, where he was considered “Le lung du Conservatoire”. In 1964, he began a collaboration with the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, serving initiating courses to the Coral Directorate. It would be because of this work that, in 1969, Madalena de Azeredo Perdigão, at the time Director of the Music Service, invited Michel Corboz to assume the role of master holder of the Gulbenkian Choir, following the early death of the previous holder Olga Violante. On December 17, 1969, at 6.30 p.m., Michel Corboz conducted his first concert with the Gulbenkian Choir. The program, completely completed with works by Monteverdi and Bach, was accompanied by the collaboration of the Gulbenkian Chamber Orchestra. Since that day, and for more than half a century, he was the master holder of the Choir, having held the place as an honorary master in February this year. throughout his career, Michel Corboz performed 37 recordings with the Gulbenkian Choir, many of them awarded internationally. The current president of the Foundation has now remembered his role in the international affirmation of the Gulbenkian Choir, but also his consistent artistic direction, which prepared successive generations of coralists of the Gulbenkian Choir itself. His technical capacity, deep understanding and delivery to the works he directed, as well as the strong empathy he established with both the Choir and Orchestra, both with the public, became his distinctive brand, particularly radiant in the Christmas and Easter concerts of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation. throughout his life he received different and relevant awards and decorations, of which are prominent Commander de l’Order des Arts et des Lettres, in France, in 1996, or the Prix de la Ville de Lausanne, in 2003. In December 1999 Corboz was decorated by the President of the Portuguese Republic with the Grand Cross of the Order of the Child Dom Henrique. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expressed its deep regret over the death of Michel Corboz, transmitting to his family and to the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, also his home, the most sorry condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u179	I would like to indicate that there are in the Gallery the son of Master Michel Corboz and also Guilherme de Oliveira Martins and Risto Nieminen, of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, to which the Bureau presents its respects. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The vote on the draft vote No 663 / XIV / 2 is also followed. a ( submitted by PS ) — I regret the death of Afonso Abrantes, which I would ask Secretary Lina Lopes to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u180	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He passed away on August 4, 2021, Afonso Sequeira Abrantes, indisputable personality of Mortágua, professor of excellence, politician with inexhaustible qualities, great dedication and dedication to the public cause. Born in Videmonte, Guarda, in 1945, he graduated in Romanic Philology at the University of Coimbra, thus continuing in the profession he adored, that of teacher, having first taught in Leiria, then at the College Nuno Álvares, in Tomar, finally becoming effective teacher in his village, Mortágua, in 1978, from which he had a decisive role in the development of many and varied educational projects of the municipality. Shortly after 25 April 1974, he took part in political activity, having been elected to the Mortagua Municipal Assembly in 1976, and in 1979, he was elected vice-president at the Mortagua Municipal Chamber, which he held until 1989, at which time he was elected by the circle of Viseu, Member of the Assembly of the Republic, where he joined the Education, Science and Culture Commission. In 1990, she applied and was elected president of the Mortagua City Hall, fulfilling 23 consecutive years of mandate. in this quality, it is elected to the General Council of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, where it performs several functions. As an author, the National Council of Education and the Executive Commission of the Tourism Region of the Centre were, among other bodies and entities, also a founding member of the Association of Municipalities of the Region of the Beirão Planalto. Between 2013 and 2017 he was the president of the Mortágua Municipal Assembly. He was civically involved throughout his life in the work of various entities and movements linked to the development of the territory, social action, culture, sport and education, having never abdicated his passion for the school, exercising various functions in various teaching establishments of the council, being, in particular, the founder of the Association of Fathers and Servants of Mortagua Education. As a militant of the Socialist Party, Afonso Abrantes performed several partisan positions, under the leadership of the Mortagua Political Commission, president of the Viseu District Political Committee and member of the National Commission. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic pays its tribute to the memory of Afonso Abrantes, a teacher and politician, addressing their heartfelt condolences to family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u181	We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we move on to the Vote Project No 665 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the PCP ) — regretting the death of José Manuel Carreira Marques. I ask Secretary Sofia Araújo to proceed to their reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « José Manuel Carreira Marques died last August 6, at the age of 77. Natural of Falagueira, in the municipality of Amadora, at the age of 15, he settled in Beja, a city he called ‘his city’ and where he lived until his death. Military of the PCP since 1974, professional account technician, was elected MP of the PCP to the Constituent Assembly and the Assembly of the Republic by the circle of Beja, between 1976 and 1982. In 1983, he was elected President of the City Council of Beja, who held office until October 2005. Carreira Marques, a man of April and culture, engaged in different tasks and responsibilities assumed throughout his life, has made a huge contribution to the service of the city and region, allowing Beja to grow and develop in several areas. He also performed other functions, including those of President of the Tax Council of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and President of the District Assembly of Beja. He was editor of the extinct newspaper O Camponese. He collaborated on local radios, Radio Voice of the Plains and Radio Pax, in the newspaper Diário do Alentejo and in the magazine More Alentejo, with more than one hundred chronicles. He was the author of chronic books and poetry, having published in 2001 the Chronicles of Occasion and, in the same year, the first book of poetry(In) certain Instants. At the end of 2005, he returned to poetry with the book The Sun Fired and, in 2006, Crystal da Pele — poems by Inside the Hands. The best way to honor the memory and life of Carreira Marques will be to give continuity to the values and ideals for which he fought his whole life. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Carreira Marques and addresses the family, friends and companions of struggle their deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u183	Mrs. Members are in the family gallery of José Carreira Marques, to whom the Bureau wishes to express a word of great respect. We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We passed the Vote Project No. 666 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by the PS, the IL, the Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — For the death of Pedro Tamen. I ask Secretary Lina Lopes to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last July 29th, at the age of 86, Pedro Tamen, poet, translator and prominent figure of Portuguese culture in the second half of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century. Born in Lisbon, on 1 December 1934, Pedro Mário de Alles Tamen graduated in Law from the University of Lisbon, an institution in which, as a student, he founded and co-ordinates the magazine Anteu, leading, simultaneously, the writing of the newspaper Encontro, an organ of the Catholic University Youth. In 1958, with Antonio Alçada Baptista and João Bénard da Costa, it integrates the editorial project of Moraes, in which it creates and directs the collection Circle of Poetry and in which it remains, as literary director, until 1975. It is also in the Moraes that, in 1963 and in full dictatorship, founded the journal The Time and the Mode, a publication that constituted a milestone of the social, cultural and political criticism of then. In 1975, he joined the Board of Directors of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, where he remained until 2000, accumulating, between 1987 and 1990, the presidency of the PEN Clube Português. If he had in translation a vice, as, moreover, he himself called it — Pedro Tamen’s most celebrated translations of Diderot, Sartre, Flaubert, Breton, Proust (with emphasis on the emblematic translation of the seven volumes of Search for Lost Time), Vargas Llosa or García Márquez, among many others – it was in poetry, as scholarly as daily, who claimed that he was, admired and respected by his peers and by criticism. Recognized in Portugal and beyond borders, Pedro Tamen's multifaceted work was awarded several times, with emphasis on the D. Dinis Prize, in 1981 ; the Grand Prix of Translation, in 1990 ; the Criticism Prize, in 1991 ; the Great Inapa Prize of Poetry, also in 1991 ; the Nicola Prize, in 1997 ; or the Press Award and the PEN Club Prize, in 2000. In 1993 he was thanked with the Grand Cruz of the Order of the Child D. Henrique by the President of the Mário Soares Republic. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Pedro Tamen, conveying to his family and friends the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u185	Mrs. Members, there is also a representative of the family of the poet and writer Pedro Tamen, composed of his widow and children, to whom the Bureau presents a word of great respect. We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No 667 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by IL, by Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues, by PS, by CDS-PP, by PAN, by CH and by Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Despite the death of Olga Prats. I ask Secretary Sofia Araújo to proceed with their reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last July 30, at 82 years old, Olga Prats, pianist and one of the main references to the Portuguese artistic panorama of the 20th century. Born in Cascais, on November 4, 1938, Maria Olga Douwens Prats began her musical training with her mother, a piano teacher, and the Pedagogue João Maria Abreu and Motta, continuing her studies at the National Conservatory, completing the Higher Course of Piano ( 1957 ) at the age of 19. As the German Government and Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, she attends further training courses in Cologne, Germany, and in Friburg, Switzerland, having as teachers Gaspar Cassadó or Carl Seemann, among other major references to the piano. During his stay in Germany, Olga Prats is distinguished with the Best Foreign Student Award ( 1958 ), then receiving the best press criticisms, which were worth close collaborations with great musical groupings. No less important in the initial formation of Olga Prats was the Marquesa de Cadaval, Olga Maria Nicolis di Robilant, of whom he took the name and who contributed to the acquisition of his first piano, providing him also the proximity with great interpreters who moved to Portugal to participate in the Sintra Festival. On his return to Portugal, in 1960, he further studied with Helena Sá and Costa, from the hands of whom, in 1965, he received the Luís Costade Best Interpreter Prize of Spanish Music. Dominating a vast report—from Bach to Astor Piazzola, having been the first in Portugal to interpret and record it, passing through Stravinsky, Brahms, Schumann or Lopes-Grace—and a great amplitude of musical styles, Olga Prats works with the Chamber Orchestra of the Festival of Pommersfelden, the Gulbenkian Orchestra, the Symphony of Buenos Aires, the Port Orchestra or the Symphony Orchestra of the National Emissora, among others. Privileged to chamber music, he was a founding member of the piano duo and violet with Ana Bela Chaves in 1969 ; of the ColecViva—Experimental Group of Contemporary Musical Theatre in 1975 ; or of the Opus Ensemble in 1980, which indelibly marked the panorama of the arts in Portugal. Between 1970 and 1984, he taught in the National Conservatory, integrating between 1983 and 2008 the faculty of the School of Music in Lisbon, where he was coordinator of the class of Music in the Chamber. At the same time with the orientation of courses dedicated to Portuguese music, especially that of the 20th century, he collaborated with Fernando Lopes-Grace, Constance Capdeville or with António Victorino d' Almeida, of whom he was a close friend—and who dedicated several works to him— also continued intense activity as a member of the jury of national and international piano contests, especially the International Competition of Piano Vianna da Motta. With its disappearance, Portugal loses one of the major references of the piano, either at the level of interpretation, or at the level of teaching, or had not contributed, with its knowledge, its intelligence and sensitivity to the formation of successive generations of new artists. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Olga Prats, conveying to his family and friends the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u187	Mrs. Members are present at the Gallery the daughter and granddaughter of Olga Prats, to whom the Bureau of the Assembly also expresses a word of great respect. We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We passed the Vote Project No. 671 / XIV / 3. a ( submitted by PAR and signed by PS members, BE, PAN and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Despite the death of Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho. I would ask Mrs Lina Lopes to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died on July 25, 2021, at the age of 84, Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho, Captain of April and one of the main workers of the 1974 Revolution, of which he was the operational commander and the recognized strategy. It was one of the liberators of Portugal, who rescued, on that day, the Country of the long night of the dictatorship, « The whole and clean initial day, where we emerged from the night and silence, / And free we inhabit the substance of time, as well described Sophia by Mello Breyner Andresen. Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho was born in 1936, in Maputo, then Lourenço Marques, Mozambique. He was an alder and a captain in Angola, between 1961 and 1963 and between 1965 and 1967 respectively, and also a captain in Guinea, between 1970 and 1973. He actively participated in the challenge movement to Decree-Law No. 353 / 73, which sought to respond to the shortage of captains of permanent paintings and who came to function as a true catalyst of the Captains Movement and the Armed Forces Movement ( MFA ). Othello – as was known by the Portuguese – was responsible for the operational sector of the MFA Coordinator Commission, drawing up the military operations that ended the siege of Longo do Carmo, in Lisbon. in this role, it was absolutely decisive in the outcome of the operation, in the command of the heroic captains of April, being, together with the always healthy Salgueiro Maia, in the Portuguese collective imaginary, one of the faces most easily associated to the liberating day of the country. Portugal and the Portuguese owes to Othello Saraiva de Carvalho, and to his comrades of the Captains' Movement, the conquest of Freedom. As the former President of the General Republic Ramalho Eanes said, «to him the homeland owes freedom and democracy. And this is a debt that nothing, no one, has the right to refuse. (...) There are men who, at a special historical moment, overcome themselves, gaining an indisputable national dimension, because they knew how to perceive and explore a unique historical opportunity and feel the deepest longings of their people». Not ignoring the various moments in Othello's life that made him a contradictory, divisive and non-consensual character, at the time of his disappearance, above all, pays tribute to the hero of April, to the courageous operational captain of the military movement of 25 April 1974, and that the Assembly of the Republic, through this vote, recalls, expressing the gratitude of the Portuguese people—which is represented here—for the decisive role it has played in the one that will always be celebrated as the unforgettable Day of Liberty. Thus, in the name of the attachment to the values of freedom and democracy, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret over the death of Othello Saraiva de Carvalho, transmitting to his family, his friends and comrades of arms, as well as to the Association 25 April, of which he was a member, the most sorry condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u189	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. I begin by asking who votes against. [[Pause.]] They vote against the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and a group of Members and Members. Members of the PSD who, I suppose, are duly registered unless the PSD Parliamentary Group wants to do us a favor to help us identify the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think that is necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u190	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u191	Please, Mr. Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u192	Mr President, I would suggest that the PSD Members express their vote with a loud voice.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u193	All right, Mr. Deputies, that will be the case. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Members. PSD Members who vote against you to indicate your name, so that it may be registered. [[Pause.]] They vote against the gentlemen. PSD Members Márcia Passos, Paulo Neves, Sara Madruga da Costa, Paulo Moniz, Fernanda Velez, Emília Cerqueira, Ofélia Ramos, Jorge Paulo Oliveira, Sandra Pereira and Carlos Silva. I'm asking now...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u194	Mr President, if I may, I would also like to point out the votes against the Members. PSD Members Sérgio Marques and Paulo Rios de Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u195	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. It's the ladies. Members attending the plenary session at a distance. Let us therefore continue the vote by asking the honourable Members now. PSD Members who abstain from identifying themselves for registration purposes. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen abstain. PSD Members Pedro Alves, Jorge Salgueiro Mendes, Álvaro Almeida, Isabel Lopes, Isura Morais, Isabel Meireles, Antonio Cunha, Ilídia Quadrado, Paulo Leitão, Pedro Rodrigues, Cláudia André, Olga Silvestre, Alberto Fonseca, Carlos Eduardo Reis, Monica Quintela, Carla Barros, Helga Correia, Ana Miguel dos Santos, Adam Silva, Catarina Roche Ferreira and Clara Marques Mendes. I ask, now, who votes in favour...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u196	Mr. President, I apologize but I would like to announce that Members Carla Madureira, Hugo Carneiro, José Cancela Moura, Bruno Coimbra, Alexandre Poço, Hugo Martins de Carvalho, Maria Germana Rocha, André Neves, Cristovão Norte and Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u197	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. In addition, Mrs Lina Lopes, who is here with me and therefore did not ask to identify herself. I ask you now to speak to me. PSD Members voting in favour of identifying themselves for registration. [[Pause.]] They vote in favour of the honourable Members. PSD Members António Maló de Abreu, José Cesario, Emídio Guerreiro, António Lima Costa, Duarte Marques, João Gomes Marques and André Coelho Lima. And yet, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u198	They also vote in favour, Mr. President, PSD Members Carlos Gonçalves, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, who will present a written vote statement, Rui Silva, Afonso Oliveira, Luís Marques Guedes, Hugo Patrício Oliveira, Carla Borges, Luís Leite Ramos and Filipa Roseta, who will also present a written vote statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u199	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, we follow the result of the vote of the deliberative part of the draft vote No 671 / XIV / 3. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, BE and PAN, and the deputy not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Despite the death of Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho. [[Subject to vote, subject to vote, subject to vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEN, the PNV, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacin Katar Moreira and 16 PSD Members (Afonso Oliveira, André Coelello Lima, André Coelello Lima Lima Lima, Antonio Lima Costa, Antonio Malógues de Abrepu Abreu, Carla Borges, Carlos Gondes Marques Marks, Duarte Marques Marqueiro, Filipia Roses Roses, João Célia Cerqueira, João Córica Celário Menqueira, Jorge, Carlos Lós, Carlos Antonio Lopesio Lopes, Andrés, Carlos Antonio Lógue Lógues, Carlos Antonio Lógues Lópes, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Carlos, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Carlos, Carlos, Paulo Neves, Paulo Rios de Olives de Oliveira, IL, IL, IL, IL, IL, IL, ILó, ILós, Son, Son, Sandra, Son, Sandra, Sandra, Sandra, Sandra, Sandra, Sandra, Sandra of David David David David David David David David David David David David, Pedro Per, Pedro Per, Pedro Per, Son and 12 members of Mad Mad Mad Mad Mad, Carlos, Carlos, Carlos, Carlos, Carlos, Carlos, Carlos, Carlos, Carlos, Carlos, Carlos, Carlos, Carlos, Carlos and 12 and 12 and 12 members of Mad Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria Maria, Pedros and 12 and 12 and 12 Del, Pedros, Pedro Pedros, Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedros (S, Pedros, Pedros, Pedros, Pedros and 12 of Mad, Pedros, Pedros and 12 in Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedros (Med by, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro, Pedro, Pedro Pedro Pedro Pedro, Pedro, Pedro, Pedro Pedro,]] Mrs. Members, the Bureau records some entries — I suppose to announce statements of vote — so I begin by giving the floor to Mr Telmo Correia. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u200	Mr President, just to announce that on behalf of the CDS-PP, we will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u201	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u202	Mr President, I would also like to state that, on behalf of my party, a written statement of vote will be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u203	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u204	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u205	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Duarte Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u206	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u207	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u208	Mr President, it is for the same purpose: I shall present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u209	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. André Coelho Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u210	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u211	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Sandra Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u212	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present, on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira and Mr Carlos Silva, a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u213	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to return to the collection necessary so that we can continue with the votes. We still have to vote for the Vote Project No 672 / XIV / 3. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL, and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira. ) — I regret the death of Acácio Catarino, which will be read by Ms. Secretary Sofia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u214	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last September 2, Acácio Catarino, one of the biggest Portuguese specialists in social policies, an area to which he devoted much of his life. Acácio Catarino was president of Caritas between 1982 and 1999, leaving a deep mark in the history of this institution. He was a member of the National Justice and Peace Commission, of several IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) and mercy, as well as of non-profit institutions. Trained in Sociology, he was a teacher of higher education institutions. As a public servant, he distinguished himself as president of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, having previously been Secretary of State for Population and Employment in the Third Constitutional Government, led by Nobre da Costa, in 1978. Between 2001 and 2006, he was a consultant for social affairs of the President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio. Motivated by a dedication to the cause of the common good and social justice, Acácio Catarino was a defender of the new generation of social policies in the second half of the 1990s, having given a very important contribution in the launch of the guaranteed minimum income. throughout its course, and in all the responsibilities it has assumed, it left the mark of its humanistic sensitivity and thought, as well as the committed defense of human rights. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Acácio Catarino, addressing to relatives and friends his most sincere condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u215	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. There is also in the gallery the nora, the grandson and the granddaughter of Acácio Catarino, and also the President and the Secretary of the Directorate of the Portuguese Caritas, to whom the Bureau of the Assembly intends to express a word of great respect and, if I may, by apologizing and your understanding, also a personal word on this vote. Let us then vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u216	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u217	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u218	Mr President, at the end of the previous vote, of the regret vote for the death of Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho, I did not indicate that the NAP will present a written declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u219	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u220	Mr President, I am sorry, but I also wanted to correct my sense of vote, which was against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u221	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to pay a minute's silence for all these regrets. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] I now ask Mrs Lina Lopes to proceed with the reading of the draft vote No 670 / XIV/3. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Greetings to the Portuguese Missions to the Olympic and Paralympic Games of Tokyo 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « The Olympic and Paralympic Games are the world's sporting events par excellence, constituting golden moments of the sport career of any athlete. At the end of the Olympic and Paralympic cycles, it is worth public recognition to the Portuguese Missions at the Olympic and Paralympic Games of Tokyo 2020 because they have once again honored and dignified the Portuguese sport at the highest level. in these Games, the performance of the Portuguese athletes was settled in a total of 6 medals and 38 diplomas, with several national records exceeded. It was the best ever participation of the Portuguese Mission in the Olympic Games, with 4 medals and 15 diplomas, being to highlight the individual performances of Pedro Pablo Pichardo, who hopped the Olympic champion of triple jump, conquering the gold medal, of Patrícia Mamona, also in triple jump, who achieved the silver medal, as well as of Fernando Pimenta, in the K1 1000 m test, and of Jorge Fonseca, in the judo — 100 kg, who obtained bronze medals. In the Paralympic Games, Portuguese participation totaled 2 medals and 23 diplomas, highlighting the performance of Miguel Monteiro, in the launch of weight F40, and Norberto Mourão, in the 200 m VL2 canoeing, both distinguished with bronze medals. In addition to the medals and diplomas received, which are filled with pride and gratitude to all Portuguese, it is important to point out the example of Brio, commitment, dedication and capacity to overcome national athletes, which demonstrates their fidelity to the values that govern the Olympic and Paralympic movements: the values of excellence, friendship and respect, as well as of courage, determination, inspiration and equality. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, is associated with the participation of the Portuguese Missions at the Olympic and Paralympic Games of Tokyo 2020, welcoming the athletes, technical teams and the Olympic and Paralympic Committees of Portugal for the results that dignified and prestigious the Country. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u223	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we vote, I would like to inform the House that the Head of Mission and the Executive Director of the Mission of the Paralympic Committee and also the President, the Secretary-General, the Head of Mission, the Director of Communication and the Ombudsman of the Olympic Athletes Commission of the Olympic Committee, to whom the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic presents a very special fulfillment. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and acclamation.]] Mrs. Members, we follow the vote on draft resolution No 1441 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to São Tomé and Príncipe. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 708 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Protection and valorisation of the ravine. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 800 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recognition and protection of the ravine and its cultural identity. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, these two bills are down to 12. the Commission. Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 516 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Transfers the seats of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Entity for Political Accounts to the City of Coimbra, making the tenth amendment to Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Law of the Organization, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court ), the tenth amendment to the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals, approved by Law No 13 / 2002 of 19 February, and the third amendment to Organic Law No 2 / 2005 of 10 January ( Law of the Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Finances ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the IL and 8 PS (Ascense Simões, Vasconcelos Bachelor, Carla Sousa, Cristina Jesus, João Gouveia, Pedro Coimbra, Raquel Ferreira and Tiago Estêvão Martins), votes against the PAN and CH and PS, BE, PCP, PEV and Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u224	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u225	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u226	Mr President, I would like to say that I will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u227	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we just passed is low to 1. the Commission. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of a vote and I would like to thank you for some restraint. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 148 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Model of financing hospitals integrated into the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and the NAP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u228	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u229	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u230	Mr President, I would like to announce a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u231	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 883 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — regulates the brokerage and accommodation in balconies and similar spaces of pets, making the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 276/2001 of 17 October. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD, CDS-PP and CH and abstentions from PCP, ENP and IL.]] Mrs. Members, this initiative is down to 7. the Commission. Mrs. Lara Martinho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u232	Mr President, I would like to announce a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u233	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. It is now necessary to vote on a set of requests for discharge to the committee, without a vote, of a set of initiatives. I wonder if we can vote on all these demands together. [[Pause.]] If there is no objection, then we shall vote together on the requests made by the proponents of their initiatives, asking the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea for the 60-day deadline of Bill No 932 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Improves the conditions for the detention of dogs and cats provided for in Decree-Law No 314 / 2003 of 17 December and to the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory within 30 days of the Draft Resolution No 1161/ XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — National Programme for the Efficient Use of Water, of the Bill No. 931 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Establishs the obligation of the Government to implement a national action plan for adaptation to climate change for the water sector and the Resolution Project No 1188 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — For a water policy that ensures the equity of access and the supply of populations. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 109 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Creates the possibility of fixing maximum marketing margins for simple fuels. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and the abstention of the PSD.]] This bill goes down to 11. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 898 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — establishes an exceptional and temporary system of maximum prices for liquid fuels. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 899 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — establishes a maximum gas price scheme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 900 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — tax degeneration of electricity produced by renewable energy sources and other measures to counter inflationary escalation of electricity prices. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] The general vote of Bill No. 924 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( CDS-PP ) — Elimination of increased tax on petroleum products ( ISP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, CH, IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and PAN and abstentions against the ENP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u234	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u235	Please, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u236	Mr President, I would like to point out that the Left Block votes against this initiative. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u237	Then, in this case, if the Left Block votes against, the result of the vote of Bill No. 924 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Elimination of increased oil product tax ( ISP ) is different, i.e. the project was rejected. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we're tired. We will move on to the general vote of Bill No. 928 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — introduces a maximum price scheme for fuels and anti-speculative measures in the formation of fuel prices. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PAN and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] Let us now proceed to the general vote on the Bill No 110 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves anti-doping law in sport by adopting in the domestic legal order the rules laid down in the World Anti-Doping Code. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, this initiative goes down to 8. the Commission. We will vote for the Resolution Project No 1438 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Guarantee of access to extraordinary support by self-employed persons and self-employed persons. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstentions.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 929 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — extension of the period for the guarantee of unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 909 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Amendment to the Urban Rent Scheme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 930 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Alter the urban lease regime and the exceptional regime for situations of default in the payment of income under the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstention from IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 933 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Strengthens the protection of the right to housing of elderly persons ( eighth amendment to NRAU and first amendment to Law No 13 / 2019 of 12 February ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u238	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u239	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u240	Mr President, I would like to announce that we will present a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u241	It is duly registered, Mrs. We will generally vote for Bill No. 934 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Recognition of lease contracts ( eighth amendment to the New Urban Rent Scheme ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 935 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Stability in lease contracts ( seventy-eighth amendment to the Civil Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 26 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Democratic and People's Republic of Algeria amending the roadmap established by the Air Transport Agreement signed in Lisbon on 3 October 2018. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the abstention of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u242	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u243	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u244	Mr President, I wanted to correct the meaning of the NAP's vote on Bill No 934 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Recognition of lease contracts ( eighth amendment to the New Urban Rent Scheme ). in this vote, the NAP abstains.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u245	All right, Mrs. Deputy. It does not alter the final outcome of the vote, but the change in the meaning of the NAP is duly recorded. We now proceed to the vote on the report and management account of the Assembly of the Republic for the year 2020. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] A number of draft resolutions on the same subject are being voted on. I wonder if we can vote for them all together. [[Pause.]] With no objection, we will vote jointly, in general, on Resolution Projects Nos 1352 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Promotion of a plan for the protection and depollution of the Paiva River, 1377 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government measures to defend the sustainability of the Paiva River and its tributaries, 1387 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Implementation of measures for monitoring, depolating and valuing the Paiva River and its tributaries, and 1395 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By the urgent application of measures for the depollution and preservation of the Paiva River. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, having been approved, these draft resolutions are down to 11. the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1385 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Definitive resolution of the environmental problem consisting of the Zambujal-Sesimbra landfill. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 6 PS Members (André Pinotes Batista, Eurídice Pereira, Filipe Pacheco, Ivan Gonçalves, Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos and Sofia Araújo) and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u246	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u247	Mr. Filipe Pacheco, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u248	Mr President, I would like to inform you that the PS Members who voted in favour of draft resolution No 1385 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u249	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1410 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government, in the course of the selection process of members of the Board of Directors of the Portuguese Development Bank, withdraw the proposal for the designation of Vítor Fernandes and indicate an alternative name. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 704 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Repeals the legal presumption of acceptance of dismissal for objective reasons when the employer provides compensation to the worker ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstention from IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u250	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u251	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u252	Mr President, I would like to say that we want to make an oral statement at the end of the proceedings, which Mr Soeiro will make.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u253	That will be the case, Mr President. We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions Nos 1300 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government measures to promote the inclusion and preservation of quality of life in the area of the Perimeter of Mira and Natural Park of the Southwest Alentejan and Costa Vicentina and 1379 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — A new generation of planning tools to ensure the sustainability of the Alentejo Coast. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions No 1365 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake immediate rehabilitation of the Basic School 2 / 3 Frei Caetano Brandão, in Braga, fulfilling a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, and 1384 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government urgently comply with Resolutions 264 / 2018 of 13 August and 48 / 2019 of 15 March on the rehabilitation of the EB School 2 / 3 Frei Caetano Brandão ( Braga ) and its inclusion in the national list of schools to be rehabilitated and modernized. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We have come to the end of today's votes, so we will proceed to the oral vote statement by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, recently announced on the general vote of Bill No 704 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Repeals the legal presumption of acceptance of dismissal for objective reasons when the employer provides compensation to the worker ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote just took place is a very important matter for thousands of workers who are currently going through these processes, particularly in large companies. The labour law today has a standard that allows companies, in practice, to make illegal redundancies and buy the silence of workers on this crime, when they transfer compensation, i.e. this infers from a fact that is known — the employer has transferred compensation — a fact that is unknown, that is whether the worker actually accepts that dismissal is lawful. In other words, as jurist Jorge Leite said, it is a loving norm that takes advantage of the state of need of the worker, at a time when he lost his job and therefore lost his salary, to prevent him from exercising a right that the law gives him, if he does not want to stay for years without that money that is his and, more, that will be his in any case. It is on the basis of this precise rule that companies can escape the challenge of the redundancies they are currently promoting. But it is also this rule that enables large companies to see what is happening, at the Altice, in the banking sector, to blackmail workers for revocations by agreement, because the phantom of dismissal is shaken and the worker knows that he will be highly conditioned to contest this dismissal, ending up yielding and, therefore, signing and renouncing his rights, in the name of his own survival. It is a horrible norm, it is a humiliating norm, it is a tantamount norm that thus offended the sensitivity of so many socialists throughout history that Antonio Guterres revoked this norm, in the name of decency and respect for workers' rights. Only that the right has put the rule back on the law and the Socialist Party has allowed this rule to remain. It is worth remembering that in 2019 the PS revoked this rule, in general, approving a project of the Left Block. But then he went to social consultation, there was a debate in the specialty and changed the sense of vote, dropping this same project.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u255	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u256	So you said it for not saying. In April, there was again a sign of the Socialist Party, in the sense that this rule could finally be repealed, but again, the same retreat and this norm, which is excruciable, is again in the law of work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u257	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we close our work today, Mrs Sofia Araújo will make a brief announcement to the House. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u258	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform the House that you were present at today's plenary session by video conference. Mr Olavo Câmara and Mr Paulo Porto of the PS, and Mrs Ana Mesquita of the PCP. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-17.u259	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. I also announce that, by virtue of the actual elections, the next plenary session will take place on 29 Wednesday at 3 p.m. on the agenda, with a single point: political statements. Everyone wants a good weekend, with good health. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 33 minutes.]]
