ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the authority, I declare open the sitting. [[It was 15 hours and 12 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Let's start our work and start with messages that will be read by Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote on Friday for the position of the Ombudsman shall be as follows: « On the nineteen days of November of two thousand and twenty-one, the election was made for the position of the Ombudsman, having been presented a single candidature, that of Professor Maria Lúcia of the Abrantes Amaral Conception. The result was as follows: Voters — 208 Votes ‘yes’ — 176 White votes — 30 No votes — 2 The candidate presented was elected for obtaining the constitutionally qualified majority required for this purpose. The present has been washed until it is properly signed. Mr Scrutinadores, Mr Helga Correia — Sofia Araújo. Do not keep on seeking. ” I also inform you that they entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Law Projects No. 1024 / XIV / 3. a ( IL ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 1025 / XIV / 3. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and also draft Resolution Nos 1524 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ), which drops to 9. the Commission, 1525 / XIV/ 3. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1526 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1527 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u3	Let us therefore enter the first item on the agenda, which has been set for Green Poles, which consists in the general discussion of Bill No. 1022 / XIV / 3. a (PV) — sets free of charge for the use of public transport for disabled persons, unemployed persons, persons aged 18 or under and students of compulsory education. You have the floor to present the bill, Mr. José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, there is no doubt that climate change, associated with global warming, has led to changes in precipitation patterns, increased water levels and greater frequency of extreme climate phenomena. Now, since the threat is global, of course the answer must also be global. However, in the part that touches us, as a country, it is absolutely imperative to take action, and at various levels. Without prejudice to the importance of other measures to be taken, it is therefore necessary to change the paradigm, with regard to transport policy, by investing seriously in public transport and, above all, in railways, in order to provide the country with a mobility policy that is capable of transforming public transport into a real alternative to the use of the particular car. We do not want to devalue the number of steps taken in recent years, including progress on social passes, with the Programme of Support for Tax Reduction in Public Transport, the PART, the fact is that much still needs to be done. There is a great deal to be done not only at the level of investment on the supply side, in order to respond to the increase in demand for public transport covered by the passes, but also at the same time a strong investment in rail, a need to advance the progressive freeness of public transport and to extend the supply throughout the national territory. There is therefore much to do at the level of transport, which is the weight we all know at the level of greenhouse gas emissions. For this reason, over the years, the Greens proposals have been numerous to promote effective collective mobility policies, taking into account their broad and recognised environmental, social and economic benefits. In fact, the Greens have long said that Portugal needs a new transport paradigm, both at the level of passengers and at the level of goods. Portugal needs a new paradigm focused on the railway component that responds to the mobility needs of populations and the transport of goods, in particular for the flow of local and regional production. It needs a paradigm that promotes territorial cohesion and harmonious development in the country and, finally — but not less important — gives more robust answers to the global environmental challenges faced by Portugal and the planet in the fight against climate change. In fact, while in our country we are discussing the possibility of reducing the cost of the price of social passes, some countries are already betting on free public transport under the so-called « zero rate ». The number of accessions to this sustainable transport policy has been growing from day to day. That is, to reduce the number of cars in cities, the bet on free public transport is increasing in Europe, but also in other parts of the world. The aim is to reduce the cars to be circulated in cities and thus improve the air quality we breathe, contributing, of course, to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and, at the same time, to reduce the infernal traffic in large urban centers. The modalities are varied, with some cities already launching free partial transport, i.e. free transport at certain times or in certain types of transport. And, given the accounts, there will be today around 100 cities offering free public transport, 23 of which in France. As is public and well known, the Greens Ecological Party has stressed on the political agenda the importance of the phenomenon of the use of collective transport, which has an unquestionable environmental and social relevance. at a time when climate change mitigation reveals an emergency and that common sense, moreover, recommends that it be taken very seriously, and being the transport sector not only one of the most contributing to greenhouse gas emissions but also one of the most growing ones and, therefore, that the overall emissions have worsened — with the aggravating of the road sector being responsible for about 90 % of the total emissions of the transport sector —, it is urgent to reverse this reality and therefore to work effectively to reduce the use of the particular car and to encourage the use of collective transport. We are talking about a policy that, in addition to the contribution it represents from the point of view of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, also helps to alleviate the large cities of the infernal transit that people have to face in their day-to-day lives, to depolulate cities and to generate more sustainable localities. It is clear that the incentive for citizens to opt for collective transport, particularly in their pendulum movements, depends on a good network, which responds to the needs of users. For this reason, the Greens have fought both by strengthening rail transport and also by increasing the supply of urban transport diversity, not forgetting the areas of the country which cannot continue without any transport that provides the mobility of the population. This is because mobility, in addition to being a citizen's right, is still — or is also — an instrument of access to other rights, such as health, education or justice. As we know, the issue of transport tariffs is also very relevant and has proved to be effective with regard to mobilisation of citizens for the use of public transport, as has also been seen with the entry into force of the PART, of the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction in Public Transport. It is not, in fact, because over the years, the Greens have been engaged, in a determined and insistent manner, either in improving the transport network or in reducing the prices of transport licences, either through the 4 /NP 18 pass, or through the Sub23 pass, as well as from the single pass at a comportable price. That is also why the Greens reaffirm that investing in improving public transport, within its quantity and quality, is not, at all, any expenditure, but in an investment with a very positive return on society, particularly in combating climate change. But moreover, the guarantee of good public transport is a right that the State must guarantee its citizens. The connection of the national territory, the breakdown of the isolation of localities, which creates discrimination based on the territorial dimension, as well as the right to mobility of populations to be able to work, study, access to health services, enjoy sport and culture, or for any other reason, must be ensured. It is not acceptable for the State to resign from the guarantee of the full exercise of these rights, especially because we are talking about rights which our Constitution includes in the list of fundamental rights. Therefore, through this draft law, the ENP makes another contribution to promoting the use of collective transport, this time by means of a tariff modality which guarantees the free use of collective passenger transport services to specific segments of the population, namely: people with disabilities, who often live isolated and "incarcerated" on their own conditionalities or travel limitations, and must be guaranteed all the conditions for appropriate and desired mobility; unemployed people who do not have income, or with income parks, need to travel, to seek work, and public transport determining for their ability to travel; persons who are 18 years old or under, for whom it is crucial to generate healthy habits and dependencies for the use of collective transport, so that in the future they do not feel the momentum, they feel the impulse, to replace this mode of mobility with the particular motor. It is an educational contribution to sustainable mobility, which The Greens believe should also be guaranteed to all compulsory education students, regardless of age. Through this draft law, the Greens Ecological Party therefore proposes the creation of a tariff modality which exempts these population segments from payment of the monthly title or from the use of 30 consecutive days, intermodal or monomodal, in force in the public transport services of passengers in the metropolitan area or intermunicipal community(IMC) of the area of habitual residence of these beneficiaries. With the aim of improving environmental standards and improving social conditions and each citizen, The Greens today bring to the debate their legislative initiative, thus giving the various parliamentary benches an opportunity to express or express their sensitivity to the social importance of these proposals, but also to the need to combat the phenomenon of climate change, because it is at this point that we realize that this fight cannot only be expressed by words, announcements and promises for everything to come. It is also at this time, when we need to vote and decide, that we realize who is really committed to combating climate change and who wants to continue to say that yes, that it is necessary to combat this threat, but that it does not show willingness to move from conversation to acts, to concrete measures, to immediate measures. In conclusion, I would like to say that the proposal which the Greens bring to debate today, not being the solution to the problem we are facing at the climate level, is, however, an excellent contribution to this fight, a path that needs to continue at the level of public transport, in addition to the importance of it being socially important. I would also like to say that the Greens have already expressed their full availability and openness to receive contributions from the other political forces, so that this law can be as consensual as possible. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u5	The Bureau recorded the registration of five Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u6	I shall respond first to three and then to two, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u7	So you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Diana Santos, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I would like to thank the ENP for bringing the debate to Parliament as important as the use of collective transport for urban mobility, both for its socio-environmental benefits and also for promoting less polluting and more sustainable public spaces. I would also like to reinforce that, together with the Left Block, the ENP is the only party that refers to the importance of ensuring accessibility for all people when presenting their transport initiatives. Unfortunately, despite all the kindness of this proposal, as far as citizens with disabilities are concerned, this measure is insufficient for them to opt for public transport. The Left Block has approved in this House its proposal to extend the Social Pass + to all people from 60 % of disability. This measure intended, uniquely and exclusively, to restore justice to all disabled people who are being injured, as consumers, by paying a full pass when they cannot enjoy the answers in their entirety, nor with safety and comfort necessary to be able to travel without barriers. We know that it was not a measure that would in fact contribute to the resolution of this chronic problem of inaccessibility to transport in Portugal. Accessibility to transport is instrumental in the full exercise of rights on the part of people with disabilities, because it is through these means that several people move to various destinations, either to study, for work, for leisure, for health matters or to fulfill any other social role assigned to them. I believe it is fair, for all of us, Members and Members, to assume that there has not been a serious and consistent concern in this House in guaranteeing a basic right as is to go and come in total autonomy to these people. We are talking only about human rights and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by Portugal over 12 years ago, is very clear when in Article 9 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. , asserts that States parties must take appropriate measures to ensure equal access to the physical environment, transport, information and communications for persons with disabilities. There are also European directives on accessibility which are supposed to ensure that these must be universal. However, there are articles and paragraphs of these same directives that safeguard the situations in which these accessibilitys may not be met, which places people with disabilities at the mercy of the way each country views them and whether they live in dignity and equality with the other population. Portugal has been very worthy of choosing not to meet the accessibilitys it should and therefore dodge through these same articles and subterfuges. Portugal is also very dichotomic in relation to accessibility, with no territorial coherence in its distribution, which is basically a reflection of other policies and options that do not directly relate to disability. However, we continue to allow companies such as Flexbus, for example, that in their country of origin and in most European countries, operate with an affordable fleet in Portugal, shamefully, to be in free growth with zero careers guaranteeing accessibility. We continue to allow — without even talking about it, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! — there are citizens and citizens with disabilities who are hostages of their territory, who live with reduced mobility, for example, in Beja, Vila Real or areas of the interior, and who can only travel by car and, so many times, do not even have those who drive them, which has a brutal negative impact on the opportunities of these people, whether at the level of studies, work, construction of social relations or access to health care, leisure and culture. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, betting on improving and training public transport is undoubtedly a measure to combat inequalities. It is imperative that each of us, who has an interventional and legislative power, should retain mobility as a right and that we do not continue to be bound by a charitable and assistanceist model, in which we constantly say 'is the beginning of a path' or, then, 'is already better than nothing'. It is enough to discriminate against each transport law that we approve, without taking into account whether it serves everyone and excludes no one. We will guarantee people with disabilities the enjoyment of public space, which also belongs to them and which is from them by law. My question is: is the ENP committed, as far as it depends on you, to prevent any proposal that does not take into account the accessibility needs of all people with disabilities? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u9	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Hugo Costa, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, firstly, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes the Greens Ecological Party for bringing the issue of public transport to debate, and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is very proud of the work which, over the past six years, the Government and this Parliament have developed in this area, and in which the ENP has also been a partner in this work. Mr. Deputies, never a government, no parliament has ever legislated on public transport as much as in the last six years. I would like you to comment on this. Then, let's talk about the PART: this tariff reduction program is a measure of broad social scope, allowing savings for families and, at the same time, mitigating climate change. PROTransP (ProTransP) is a step that also enables the strengthening of the network where it is needed. Mr President, with the last six years, does the Greens Ecological Party not share the pride of the Socialist Party in these improvements and achievements? Mr.a and Mr. Deputies, for example, a pass in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon or the Metropolitan Area of Porto, went from values that could reach hundreds of euros to 40 euros. Mr. Deputies has responsibilities in the county of Setúbal. in this council, how much was the pass four or five years ago and how much is it now? Oh, my God! What was the government, which Parliament approved these measures? Ladies and gentlemen, one of the criticisms that also exists about the PART, the tariff reduction programme, has to do with non-territorial equality — a lie that is often blasphemous. Mr. and Mr. Member, isn't the PART all over the national territory? [[Protests by PEV MP Mariana Silva.]] For example: a citizen of the municipalities of Tomar, the Entronment or Santarém who travels daily to Lisbon — and many do so — saw the value of their pass decrease by about 50 %. What government and what Parliament have allowed this conquest? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in relation to matters concerning disabled people, we well know the need to respond and then the Social Step + responds to these issues and to this challenge. With regard to the younger, do not pass 4 /NP 18 and Sub23 respond to existing problems? Universality is not equity, and equity is what we need to respond to this challenge. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what alternative does the Greens Ecologist Party have to do with transport? We well know that recently voted against a budget that, for example, allowed the CP ( Trains of Portugal) to have the greatest strengthening of funding ever. This was the budget in which the Green Party recently voted against. It was also a budget that strengthened the values of the PART and PROTransP. Take your responsibilities!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u11	They're wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u12	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a great challenge ahead of us. The honourable Member recently said: 'Let's go to the specialty, we accept proposals in the specialty'. We regret that they did not have the same responsibility in the State budget, in which they did not want to discuss the same subject in the specialty. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a great challenge, the challenge of quality public transport, and we, in the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, are very proud of the work done together with the ENP over the past six years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u13	For a request for clarification, Mr Rui Cruz of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully read this legislative initiative and I have noticed that the ENP has quickly noticed how an environmental measure has become — combating climate change, reducing the use of fossil fuels and automobiles within cities — to a measure of purely instrumental charism. We are on the eve of elections and the Portuguese families of the middle class have already felt in the portfolio the magnificent austerity of the left. Unfortunately, for the environment, the tariff reduction support programme has become an effective instrument for circumventing the tax burden. More than two years have passed, we look forward to a credible study on the environmental impact of this program. Just one!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u15	It's on the Internet!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u16	A study that informs us and concludes with the effective and relevant reduction in the use of private transport and fossil fuels, resulting from the option for the use of public transport moved to clean energy. So, what does the ENP want? It is also clear that users referred to in this legislative proposal do not use private transport with expression that alters the formal objectives of the tariff reduction support programme. It seems to us that this is just about expanding existing social support. And once again, and in an unwise and indiscriminate way, while the cost is reduced for ordinary public transport users and the government's budget is financed by the colossal debt of public transport companies, financial resources are distributed, without discretion, which the State no longer has and the economy does not finance. Will the ENP have forgotten that the budget proposal has gone down and that we are therefore not in time of expertise?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u17	You, too? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u18	We know that the ENP thought it was unnecessary to go to the elections. I wanted this government, but a new budget, the problem is that this Prime Minister wanted that Budget and a new majority. So, what does the ENP really want with this stage? Practical consequences will certainly not be. An effective fight against climate change, neither. More public expenditure without budgetary revenue, yes, of course. To anticipate the electoral campaign, yes, simply. Times change, wills change.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u19	What a strange central block!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u20	It is time to realize that it will be another parliamentary majority, another government and another budget proposal to deal with these matters. It is time to realize that this plenary is not a theatre room and that scenes will already be on other stages. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u21	You have the floor to answer, Mr. José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by thanking Mrs Diana Santos of the Left Block, Mr Hugo Costa of the PS, and Mr Rui Cruz of the PSD, for the questions they have raised. I was starting with Mr Rui Cruz of the PSD : the stage, Mr Deputies, is what the PSD is doing! Member of the CFP Bruno Dias. OPSD is accusing us of dropping the Budget when the PSD could have made it viable. If you wanted Budget, you would have made it feasible. However, they vote against and point their finger here. In fact, six years have gone by pointing the finger on this side, saying "they are responsible for approving six budgets", but now that we have not approved, we are responsible for not having approved it. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Mr President, the setting is to want a State budget without falling and voting against. That's what the PSD did. [[PEV and PCP applause.]] After that, the honourable Member refers to the PART and must be of the few people in the country who think the PART was a bad move!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u24	Sir, neither the CDS, perhaps, dare say such a thing! The tariff reduction support programme was one of the most important measures, with regard to combating climate change, which has been taken in this country for decades. It is true that it was during the PS government, but it is also true that it was with great pressure from the parties to the left of the PS that an absolutely exceptional measure was actually achieved from a social point of view, since this is very important in the budgets of families who use the pass every day. [[PEV and PCP applause.]] The PSD is certainly not concerned about the impact the PART has on the family budgets of these people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u25	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u26	It is true, because we hear your speeches, so we cannot ignore it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u27	They don't even buy the pass!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u28	The PART is also important from the point of view of mobility, because there were many people who began to use public transport exactly because of the tariff reduction. The title of transport is an absolutely decisive variable in the choices of the citizen and, therefore, if we do not put public transport in such a way as to compensate for the use of the individual car, people never leave it again. So, on this point, ask what the ENP wants... Mr, until I can read to you what Carlos Moedas said — do you know who it is? It's from your party!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u29	He has an idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u30	He said the following in his possession: « Our goal is that every day more and more people naturally opt for collective and sustainable transport».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u31	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u32	And right here too! And he also said: « So we want to make free transport to induce new habits among the newer».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u33	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u34	I'd say! Is that what you're talking
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u35	This is the truth: he said this in the takeover, said this in the Municipal Council of Youth and said this, now, in an interview on Renaissance radio. Therefore, Mr. Depute, you understand your colleague Carlos Moedas to see if the PSD only has a speech about this, because you have a speech in the Chamber and have another speech here and come to talk in non-rime scenes. Finally, regarding the question of Mrs Diana Santos, of the Left Block, we share her diagnosis of Portugal's policies with regard to people with disabilities. We intend to ensure accessibility to all people and that is where we must walk. Madam Member, if you think this proposal is insufficient, we have the Left Block so that, as a general rule, it can bring proposals, in the field of expertise, which can make it more robust and less insufficient. We agree, Mrs Deputies, that public space should be guaranteed to all citizens. Mr Hugo Costa, of the Socialist Party, as to pride in working together, of course we are proud. I have already said it here, several times and on several occasions: the PART was an absolutely exceptional measure with regard to the fight against climate change. However, it is also true that much has been approved by the parties to the left. But that doesn't matter: the PART is on the ground, take advantage! What is needed, now, is to take you all over the territory and make public transport free of charge. That's where we have to walk. The honourable Member then referred to the question of transport in general. I would remind you that the Government, for example, had in its Programme a proposal to take rail transport to all district capitals, but so far nothing. Then, Mr. Deputy, no one laid the government down! Mr. Deputy saw the film wrong! He could not demand that the Greens vote in favour of a State budget with which they did not agree. of the 15 proposals which The Greens made to the Government, the PS only gave green light to one hour and the last hour, in order to prevent any conversation before the vote in general. Therefore, the honourable Member cannot say that it was the Greens who brought down the government, because the Greens just voted against a State budget that did not respond to the needs of the country. If the PS realized it was a good time to go to the election... [[Protests from PS André Pinotes Batista.]] As I said, if the PS realized it was a good time to go to the elections, he did what he had to do. You can't be blaming others! Therefore, we have no State budget because the Government and the Socialist Party did not want it. We have no State budget because the PS failed to present a State budget that would please the left—point! On this point, I believe there is no doubt. The honourable Member has also spoken about the railway. Now, I want to tell you that the government is failing at the 2020 rail level and that the projects are all sinking by 2023. For example, the Cascais and Douro Lines and the Coimbra Metrobus are the first and main casualties of the 2020 Railway, which the Government assumes in a document on the Portugal 2030 Partnership Agreement, which is now under discussion. Projects are sinking until now beyond 2023! With regard to the Douro Line, in particular, the modernisation of the Mark of Canavese-Regua should be completed by 2020. Now, we're in 2021 and the public contest hasn't even been launched yet. Therefore, Mr President, if it is true that important measures have been taken from the point of view of transport, it is also true that there is still much to be done. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u36	There are two more speakers enrolled to ask for clarification. I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the PAN Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Luís Ferreira, we begin by welcoming the ENP for this power agenda. In the bill presented to us today, it is clear what is intended: the free use of public transport for disabled people, unemployed people, persons under the age of 18 and students of compulsory education. This is clearly a proposal that addresses urgent social issues, but which is also based on an environmental basis. So I could not miss this opportunity to address three questions to you, Mr. First, we would like to understand why this project is limited to compulsory education students and does not extend to young university students. Then—and perhaps here Mrs Mariana Silva could better understand the example that I am going to give, given the geographical area that I am going to mention, but the honourable Member will also understand where I want to get—for the line that binds the Port to Guimarães or Braga, I want to give you this very simple example: who lives in Braga or Guimarães and needs to work in port must invest in public transport about 75 € per month, on a normal monthly pass, if you are a student of higher education pays about 55 €, and if you are a student covered by social action, you still have to pay about 30 €. Therefore, my question, honourable Member, is why the ENP, in its project, does not extend freeness to all higher education students and to all students covered by social action. Another point which deserves our consideration and which I would also like to put to the attention of the honourable Member is what the ENP invokes, and well, in the explanatory statement of its draft law, as regards the importance of these measures in reducing greenhouse gases and also the fact that they are very important social policies. In the draft law under consideration, these measures are confined to the area of residence through the CIM or metropolitan areas. Therefore, returning to the case of Porto-Braga and Porto-Guimaranes, I will give you an example of a municipality where people complain about the immense discrimination existing according to the place where they take public transport. I'm talking about the family council, where, depending on the station you use, the person pays different values on your monthly pass. It is true that there is a huge path to free transport both within the metropolitan areas and between the inter-municipal communities, but in this project of the ENP this « entre » is not foreseen, being only referred to within the respective CIM. That is, all those people who fit into the characteristics mentioned — people with disabilities, unemployed people, students up to the age of 18 — will have support that encourages the use of collective transport, and very well, but only move within the areas indicated? It is urgent to clarify this, Mr President. Therefore, the question is: how many students, how many people with disabilities and how many people unemployed because of different variables are forced to circulate between CIM or between metropolitan areas, thus not being established in this bill? To conclude, I want to raise one last question. Mr President, you have just mentioned in your speech that we are only going to guarantee and encourage the use of public transport if they effectively respond to people's needs. We need ambitious policies and to extend support to as many people as possible, as well as support municipalities in the acquisition of the fleet, in particular with zero emissions. Now, that was exactly the way the PAN intended to do, when here he presented a bill that aimed at strengthening both the PART and the PROTransP, but that he had the vote against the PEV. It is therefore necessary, Mr President, to clarify what the ENP intends. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u38	Mr Miguel Arrobas of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u39	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I begin by welcoming the initiative of the Greens Ecological Party to extend this discussion at a national level and not merely local, municipal, because we are already starting to have some lights and some programmes that are being implemented. The two questions I would like to see answered have a very quick formulation. Firstly, if transport becomes free of charge, is there any estimate of what increase in its use? How can we ensure that there is no overcrowding in public transport? on the contrary, what is the effective reduction in the use of individual transport? Secondly, did the Greens Ecological Party still think that we will be able to ensure equitable coverage of the national territory?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u40	In reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u41	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Bebiana Cunha, the PAN, and Mr Miguel Arrobas, the CDS-PP. Mrs Bebiana Cunha, in fact, our bill has four population segments as an object of analysis. It is the disabled, the unemployed, persons under the age of 18 and students of compulsory education. In fact, it is not aimed at young university students or students covered by social action, but, as I said in the gallery, we are open to receiving contributions from other parties, in the field of specialty. on our part, the proposal which Mrs Deputies here today have put forward will be very welcome, so there is a receptivity of the other political forces to include the segment of young university students as well. With regard to the example you gave from Guimarães, I must tell you, Mrs Deputies, that the Greens have done a lot for public transport in Guimarães, but, indeed, there is still much to be done. As for the question you ask about the CIM and the metropolitan area, what is foreseen in the project is that people can benefit from the freeness of public transport, of course, in their area of residence. If we extend this to young university students, we will certainly then also have to adapt the diploma to the text that is consensual. But we also have the contribution of the NAP, so that this diploma is as consensual as possible. Mr Miguel Arrobas, no, we have no estimate of the impact this will have on the occupation of public transport. What we know is that when the Public Transport Tariff Reduction Support Programme came into force, public transport was full. However, the solution is not that which the Minister of the Environment at the time proposed, which was to tear down the banks, and, if necessary, even that of the driver was to start to fit another person there! Open... Therefore, there must be a serious bet on public transport, with investment, because for public transport to be a real alternative to the use of the individual car must be safe, comfortable and, above all, regular and certain so that people are not in that uncertainty and indecision about whether or not there is transport, whether or not it comes, and there must also be a link between the various operators on the ground. However, what we think is that we should not move forward with policies that can allow the use of public transport—because that is where we have to walk when we talk about combating climate change! — fear that public transport will not respond later. Therefore, if demand increases, of course the supply must also be strengthened. And that is what we have been here all these years demanding: there is a reinforcement from the point of view of the offer. This is because we cannot ask people to leave the car at home and come in public transport when we do not give them adequate public transport. This is why all these measures must be accompanied by a strong strengthening of the quality and quantity of public transport. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u42	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I would like to thank the ENP for bringing this important issue to debate. Not always the view of society and the goals that governments have for the country are implemented in the line of what is expected. Even with good intentions, the design of public policy is often barred with external variables, some unexpected and without any control of executive power, others due to the difficulty of fine tuning the measures to the desired targets. Therefore, there is not always a response, of the populations and entities involved, sufficiently successful and that satisfies the reasons for their implementation as best possible. If it is true that the Public Transport Tariff Support Programme has in recent years suffered an unexpected and extraordinary impact, such as that of the pandemic crisis, affecting its implementation, the truth is that the existing assessment for almost a year of implementation, under normal conditions, allows this program to be considered as a success of public intervention. This policy, together with other interventions, aligned with the commitment to reducing greenhouse gases by 55 % by 2030, meets objectives far beyond the effort to combat climate change. Essentially, the strengthening of the financing of the national transport system, based on firm commitments with the metropolitan areas and inter-municipal communities and the establishment of unquestionable conditions for the application of financial resources, whether in the reduction of tariffs or in the increase of supply, has led to various benefits in some very relevant vectors in our country. Of course, the PART is a central programme in this strategy, but the positive effects of this approach have had a colossal investment effort in transport as it has not been seen for a long time, but also from other parallel policies. Mr President, the facts already known do not allow any other assessment. The PART has an annual allocation of EUR 138, EUR 6 million, is a case of success in attracting passengers to public transport. The evaluation of the IMT ( Institute for Mobility and Transport ) points to significant growth in demand, after many years of loss of passengers, without the existence of measures to stop this bleeding. In the same area of concern, in 2020, the Public Transport Offer Support and Strengthening Programme with EUR 15 million was implemented to respond to the need to strengthen transport services, and the public transport service fund was also set up, which provides funding of EUR 5 million per year for the regular operation of transport authorities. at the same time, the growth and strengthening of the public transport network, in particular with expansion projects of meters, in several areas of the country where there were more problems of congestion and pollution, in an overall investment of EUR 900 million, and rail, through the fulfilment of the railway 2020 programme with new lines, but also requalifying more than half of the national rail network with an investment amounting to EUR 2000 million. These programmes, and in particular the PART, are also a case of success in strengthening public transport financing not only by channelling environmental funds, but above all by involving municipalities by adding more means to the funding granted. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In practice, the programme was thus well-welcome and appropriate to the needs of populations who had extraordinary membership significantly increasing the final amount. It is a case of success in promoting territorial cohesion, either by the impact on the reduction of tariffs, which is very visible in the reduction of costs of passage to the student population, either in the extension of the public transport network, which had been the target of considerable investment in the past, whether — and no less relevant — in the high number of agreements made between inter-municipal communities. In 2020, all metropolitan areas and inter-municipal communities joined these programmes worth EUR 161 million. But this approach is also a case of success in reducing negative externalities, whether in road traffic evolution and combating congestion, whether in the fight against social exclusion, or also in the variation in emissions of greenhouse pollutants, estimated at 500 000 tonnes of CO2 emissions. Since this is one of the focus of the programme, it could of course point out that we are still far from the defined objectives, which set a 40 % reduction in emissions in general transport by 2030, but this is a safe and consistent path. Moreover, the ART contributes to reducing the injustices and the negative discrimination that decarbonisation also closes. Finally, the PART is a success case in its implementation and implementation with a very close implementation rate of 100 %. Mr President, the PART and associated investment programmes have been very positive, have achieved the objectives and their role must be strengthened in the coming years, always assessing the good use of the means and the results achieved. I conclude by saying that, in this matter, we should not be tempted to make ideological assessments, seeking to catalogue as a public policy on the right or left, but only to assume, for the sake of the country and our collective future, that we are faced with successful measures and with well-used public financial resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u44	Mr President, you have three requests for clarification. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u45	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u46	You then have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u47	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, we have listened very carefully to your speech and we cannot stop questioning two very specific questions. The first one has to do with the social pass and the PART. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you very much for your excellent work. Mr Deputies, by chance, read the minutes of the plenary sessions and saw what the PS said about this proposal from the CFP? Have you read how our debates even insulted the proposal? Now the honourable Member has called you a success case some 10 times — until I gave up counting! — but I ask what you have to say to the country for the lost time, for the environmental impacts, for the money lost in terms of national economy, because the PS, on the right, has for 22 years brought the proposal which you have now so much praised? The second question, Mr President, is about such other investments which, in addition to the issue of tariff policy, are so lacking. There's a real need, sir! You may not know the concrete example here very close to the Assembly, but still this month, for weeks on end, the Transtejo ships were stopped due to lack of personnel, because the government did not authorize the hiring of sailors and drivers. I ask the honourable Member: when the transport system does not work, when we can discuss tariffs and free transport, but people do not have transport, what response does the PS give and what explanation has to give for the systematic way it has always blocked the investment and hiring of staff, after years the CFP has made that alert? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u48	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u49	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, first of all, I want to tell you that it is curious to hear the PCP say that the PS is already in the election campaign, when we see every day PCP celebrations,... [[PCP protests.]] ... all over the country without any dick to say they're on election campaign. [[PCP and ENP protests.]] It is also very funny to hear the ENP bring these issues here when you know perfectly well that none of this will be led to discussion in the specialty and therefore it is pure electoral campaign that is happening here in Parliament. [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] But, Mr. Carlos Pereira, I have heard you say here that the Socialist Party is the great friend of public transport is at least a joke. Public transport has never deteriorated as much as between 2015 and 2021! Public transport has never deteriorated as much as at this time! In addition, we went through a very curious shame when in 2019 the European Commission had to advise Portugal to invest more in public transport. The European Commission! And he did it, embarrassing us all, in a State Budget approved by Block of Left, PCP and Socialist Party. It's the truth of the facts, it's the polygraph of the truth for you to know. [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u50	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u51	In 2018, thirty union leaders in the field of transport said that this is the largest investment made in the field of transport in Portugal : or is done in the road infrastructures, where there are problems every day...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u52	Mr. Deputies, it's over time, it's got to be over.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u53	I will finish, Mr. President. Or it is done in the immobilisation of ships or trains. We're in a constant de-investment process.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u54	Less, less!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u55	This is not said by the Arrival, it is not said by anyone on the right, it is said by the union leaders. That is the Socialist shame in the field of transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u56	You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva, DOS Verdes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u57	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, in recent weeks we have all heard a lot of talk about climate change, risks to the world, if no action is taken and for almost 10 days we have had in Glasgow another episode of the novel of promises and commitments which, at the end of 26. the summit has brought us to the difficult situation in which we are. We also heard the Government of Portugal, represented by the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, congratulate on the well-known facts and take up its part in commitments and objectives. As has already been said today, these commitments are unacceptable. The watch is counting and it is our obligation, of all, as political decision-makers, to find the ways to make the pointers slow. However, one of the lines that seems to gain strength, in the logic of the mercantillization of the environment and the measures to mitigate climate change, the creation of new business areas, in the name of the environment or the greening of activities and brands, has been that of the individual response from the isolated option, notably in the change of car of each one, replacing cars moved to fossil fuels by cars moved to electricity. The question before you, Mr, is whether it does not seem to you that this is not the central answer, but rather that of replacing individual transport with the collective. It is true that other measures beyond those proposed here by the Greens are therefore necessary to strengthen service with quality and reliability, with the extension of networks, among many others, but the issue is the bet on public transport, and this project is an initiative that goes in this direction, since it allows the definition of immediate and short and medium-term objectives and work lines with very significant impacts. So the question I ask you is whether words of commitment and commitment to the environment, in abstract, are available for these measures, in particular. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u58	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u59	Mr President, first of all, thank you very much to the honourable Members. Mr Bruno Dias, Mariana Silva and André Ventura asked me questions. I am starting with Mr Bruno Dias to tell you that we basically assume all the responsibilities and we are not ashamed of what we do and what we are committed to doing well, as was the case with the PART I mentioned during my speech. On the other hand, it was also good for the CFP to assume its responsibilities on the one hand, for what it did with regard to the State budget, to have plunged it and thus abruptly prevented it, for example, if it reinforced the PART...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u60	I'll answer you!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u61	Or by preventing another very important thing: to stabilize the debt of the CP and to allow a new blow to an absolutely essential company to improve public transport in Portugal. However, with the attitude of the CFP, none of this will be achieved and this responsibility must be assumed. But I will finish by recalling and stressing that the honourable Member is part of a party that governed the City Hall of Barreiro for 38 years, which has public transport, and has never implemented, for example, the freeness of such public transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u62	Tell you or I'll tell you what happened? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u63	So it was good that you could explain this contradiction: here you want to do everything, but where you can do nothing at all! Mr. André Ventura, the only thing I asked you was to explain to this House, speaking in demagogy and in the hat of demagogy, how did you, in the last 24 hours, present more than 20 diplomas to be discussed in this House! ...I do not really know who is more demagogic in this House than the honourable Member who, in 24 hours, with the House closing, presented more than 20 projects. Furthermore, Mr. Member, who is listening to us well knows that Mr. Member or when he was a PSD Member...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u64	Me, PSD Member? PSD Member? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u65	...he has made some contribution to support public transport and much less now that he is a Member of the European Union. Finally, Mrs Mariana Silva, no doubt the Socialist Party assumes all the responsibilities in what we consider absolutely essential and that is foreseen in the PART, which is to do everything possible for a serious, robust and permanent fight against climate change. That is what we are doing and it was very clear in the State budget that we wanted to strengthen this area, not only with programmes of this nature, but by leveraging everything that is investment in public transport, whether in rail, or in meters, etc. However, the truth is that, at the right time, in the discussion of the State budget for 2022, the ENP did not take this decisive step to contribute, along with the Socialist Party, to take another step forward in combating climate change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u66	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Public transport is the backbone of mobility in cities and it is through a broad and efficient network of public transport that it is possible to guarantee the right to mobility, so that this network should be articulated, ensuring the adequacy and integration of the heavier means, such as trains and the metropolitan, with the lighter means, such as electricity and buses. Without a doubt, a public transport system must be efficient, have a good offer of destinations and schedules and must be reliable and comfortable. These conditions are linked to the price that allow public transport to be an alternative to the use of individual transport. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the COP26 ( 26 ) has been completed a short time ago. the United Nations Conference on Climate Change ), where the results were frankly disappointing and were far from what would be necessary to combat climate change and therefore we have no doubt that mobility is a key part of this same fight. Indeed, the approval of the PART was a very important step in this paradigm of mobility that we should aim to take further. According to the overall impact assessment report for PART 2019 in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, there was a 25% increase in the sale of passes in the Metropolitan Area of Porto, the increase was 30 % and in nine inter-municipal communities was 20 %. It is true that we are talking about success, considering that these modalities did not exist before, but we need to talk, for example, to the inter-municipal communities to realize that several problems remain unsolved to date. However, these data are very clearly contrasting with the period of the troika government, the PSD and the CDS, in which the value of the passes has risen and the discounts for the elderly and students have disappeared. at the same time, the de-investment in the operation of public transport resulted in lower frequencies and a worse quality of the service. It was the recipe on the right to try to destroy a fundamental public service for the population. But that path was blocked and still good. The reduction in tariffs, in addition to having ended with an abundance of transit modalities, had a brutal impact on family income and also resulted in a decrease in emissions, which is quite revealing. In fact, the average value of the passes increased from €98, in 2018, to €46, in 2019, i.e. a reduction of more than 60 %. It was therefore proven contrary to what the right came to agitate, but also contrary to what the Socialist Party itself had been saying for several years, which is reducing the cost of people and families with public transport that we were able to increase demand, reduce traffic in cities and improve air quality. And the Left Block has, over the past several years, been committed to policies and proposals which promote the progressive free movement of public transport and which increase investment, in particular in the fundamental reinforcement of the railway, in which we have presented a proposed national railway plan, which was rejected in 2018, in this Parliament. In fact, when we talk about the National Railway Plan, we are talking about increasing the supply, but also solving the problems of territorial cohesion, which still persist in our country. And, therefore, at the moment, we are talking about the success of the 2020 Railway, for example, only from those who want to hide the data from the implementation of the same programme. We therefore believe that free public transport should be integrated into a climate action programme, which combines public investment in transport networks with the progressive expansion of free movement. We therefore agree with the draft ENP law, which we are debating today, even considering that we have had very similar proposals along the way, both at national and local level, particularly in Lisbon, and considering the positive effects of the tariff reduction we really think it is necessary to continue to deepen this path, which goes through progressive gratuity, starting work with the younger ones, also with the older, the unemployed and the unemployed and people with disabilities. The social advantages for mobility, such as environmental and climate, have already been mentioned here, which are more than obvious with this option. And that is why about 100 cities around the world have adopted free public transport, not only is this debate being held. Similarly, there are several transport specialists, for example at the Free University of Brussels, who have considered that the use of public transport by some groups considered more vulnerable, such as unemployed people, young people or elderly people, increases free of charge. So we have a recipe that seems easy: strengthening investment in public transport supply, maintaining the way for the free price of the same transport. It's a challenge, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, which seems simple but is fundamental and accurate to this political courage and therefore we also thank the ENP for bringing this debate to Parliament, which we will also follow. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u68	Mr Joël Gomes, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the assessment of this draft ENP law, of an environmental and social nature, it is now important to recall that this Government has placed climate change on its agenda as one of the strategic challenges of its government action and that, in view of the commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector by 2030, it would be necessary to change the mobility patterns of the population for public transport. It was for this purpose and with the awareness that the prices practised by the collective transport system could be a factor of social exclusion, which the Government created in 2019 the PART, allowing tariff reduction in public collective transport and increasing the supply of services, which resulted in savings means for numerous families, particularly for the segments of the population that proposed this bill. Also on the PART, the State budget for 2021 provided for a financial allocation of 138 million and more extraordinary reinforcements. What did the Left Block do at that time? He voted against the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u70	I was missing! What you want, I know!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u71	The State budget for 2022 guarantees the continuity of this bet and again the Left Block voted against the State budget. I ask, Mrs Isabel Pires, where was your party's concern about the disabled, the unemployed, the students, the young, when they voted against the State budget of 2022? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u72	In reply, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u73	Mr President, Mr Joël Gomes, I am grateful for the question you raised. In large part, and on the draft ENP law, I will certainly not respond to the ENP initiative, but in fact we have fully followed what was presented by the ENP. In fact, the Socialist Party has also talked a lot about the objective of combating climate change and what we have said is that this fight has to be effective. Now, as I said in my speech, what has also emerged from Portugal from the last COP26 is quite disappointing to achieve this objective of combating climate change, but there are other subjects, which have already been mentioned here, on the PART and on investment in public transport. Mr President, we are in fact, at least six years ago, in an attempt to reverse what was done by the right, for example, in the area of public transport, which was a hecatomb, in which the objective was to privatize everything and therefore destroyed or tried to destroy virtually everything that was there, but we must look, for example, at the railway 2020, which your banker recently said was a success. Now, if we look, for example, at the execution data, we realize that there is no such success unless we really want to campaign with these numbers. I remember that the Left Block has been very responsible for this. We presented a national railway plan, which was also plunged by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u74	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u75	And, honourable Member, with regard to the Budget, the State budget has a lot to do with a vision for the country, for the economy, for health, for work, for precariousness, and I am returning the question: where was the Socialist Party to respond to health and precariousness? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u76	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Madureira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor. However, I ask the services to open the records for quorum verification. Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative function is one of the relevant aspects of the operation of the Assembly of the Republic. All initiatives by parties or non-registered Members seeking to improve the legislative framework, valuing citizenship and improving people's living conditions, are welcome. They deserve our best attention, study, analysis and decision. The bill of the Parliamentary Group 'The Greens', which today is to be examined, undoubtedly has an impact on the improvement of life on the part of our society, which deserves our best attention and requires action to minimize inequality among citizens and to promote their integration into active life and the construction of a more just, more humanist, more inclusive society. It is easy to detach kindness behind the project DOS Verdes, clearly well-intentioned, with kind ideas. But precisely one week after we adopted, in this House a draft resolution extending the allocation of the Social Pass + to people with disabilities. Will we not therefore be in a discussion about "who gives more"? Which even works, or we are not at a stage of legislative elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u79	I know that at the level of the speech there is no one who disagrees with the relevance of the adoption of inclusive and inclusive measures that guarantee greater equality of opportunity, but in practice it has not been so. Unfortunately, we note that the action, particularly the government, has fallen far short of the desirable and even the promised. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u80	«Words lead them to the wind», as we well know. But here we are obliged to monitor the action of the government, verifying if at least it does what it has promised. To establish the free use of public transport for disabled persons, unemployed persons, persons under the age of 18 years and students of compulsory education obviously have an economic impact. But it also has social impact, minimizing fragility of some fringes of our society and favoring better citizenship and even a better environment. People with disabilities are manifestly impaired in public transport, which is scarce, inadequate and not rarely without technical support. The unemployed have the right to seek employment and must therefore have access to transport that enables them to fulfil this obligation, as well as students, who are obliged to attend school until they are 18, and they are not supposed to do so on foot! And all these people, even if they have the resources necessary for the use of cars, must replace them by collective transport, contributing to a more sustainable shift in the transport paradigm. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed in this House other initiatives relating to tariff reduction and therefore I do not go too far on the subject in a generic way. The initiative here under discussion is specific, it does not equally deal with what is unequal, and it tries to balance the economic aspect, which is always worth the necessary interests and the possibility of its satisfaction, with the needs of the population, either from the point of view of accessibility, of economic fragility, of induction of environmentally more sustainable behaviour. All thought, it is important to remember that this freeness is only one of the factors in question. It is therefore necessary to ask: can there be free transport without transport? Of course not! [[PSD applause.]] We can't all want or promise and nothing to give. For that, we already have the government, which gives with one hand and pulls with both, that distributes, or says it distributes,... [[PS protests.]] ... a subsidy here, there, and then withdraws it with interest, mostly indirect, so that people are truly polished without realizing it. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] And so we get poorer every day. Until they have no direct costs, as is the case with multi-purpose attestations, they continue to delay beyond the reasonable in their allocation, sometimes more than two years, even giving rise to an increasing number of complaints in the Ombudsman's Office. There were 36 complaints in 2019 and in 2020 there were 252 complaints.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u82	And we are talking about an instrumental and essential statement for obtaining various support, including social assistance for inclusion. More than words, we need action to have a better society, better from an environmental, more humanist and inclusive point of view. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u83	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The Bureau recorded an inscription for requests for clarification by Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u84	Mr President, Mrs Carla Madureira, I imagine that the honourable Member fully knows the difference between draft law and draft resolution, so I am not going to make any more comments about it. [[You know!]] [[You don't know!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u85	With regard to public transport, as you know, it has a lot of environmental policy and we do not tire of repeating that the extension of the scope of the intermodal social pass and the reduction of its cost were the most important measures in terms of protecting the reduction of emissions. Strengthening public transport policy is, moreover, a far-reaching social policy. We know that the PSD doesn't have this vision well, because the PSD can only close train lines and remove transports to people, as we know from your past. [[PSD protests.]] The Greens propose free of charge for unemployed and disabled people, but public transport serves the most disadvantaged layers of the population. They serve the workers who go to the factory, serve the young people who go to school, serve the reformed ones in their goings for leisure, to access public services, to go to the doctor. Just walk by bus, boat, train or metro to understand who their users are, on the hanging trips of the area where they live to the area where they work, study or rest. Public transport is, in addition to a public service, an important social response that needs to be widely promoted. Therefore, honourable Member, the questions I would like to ask you are simple. The first is precisely whether to follow this perspective which The Greens bring, which will obviously require to be fully confirmed, to strengthen the role of the State in promoting public transport. The second is whether, on the basis of this understanding, and that is not too little, the PSD Parliamentary Group wants to do more to make the way for free public transport, starting with these three groups. So far, it has not shown this willingness in practice, but I remember that this measure which the Greens propose even is neither a pioneer, since there are already other countries in Europe that have applied it. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u86	Mrs. Carla Madureira, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mariana Silva, on the first question you asked me, you know that I know, therefore, that we are clear on this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u88	But it doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u89	If we had to choose a soundtrack for this discussion, surely today, the best soundtrack we would have to hear was an interesting music by Pedro Abrunhosa : To do what has not yet been done.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u91	It's just that you've had six years to do what you want to do today in a hurry... [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] ... in a species of 25. the hour, with the legislative elections at the door. Mrs. Member, they had a lot of time to do it and they didn't. What I have to say to you is this: last week, the PSD voted favourably to extend the Social Pass + to people with disabilities, knowing that it was a fair measure...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u92	It was a bill, Mrs. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u93	...and that would cover a population that really needs a specific support. It is indeed a support for which the PSD voted in favour of the conviction that people with disabilities really deserve this positive referral and this aid. Do you know what I have to tell you, Your Honor? Oh, my God! The PSD is always in favour of gradually supporting those who need it most. That's what PSD does! [[ENP Protests.]] A little while ago we heard Mr. José Luís Ferreira, and we were really convinced that you want 'to build the house starting on the roof', because they want the free transport but do not know if there is transport for everyone. [[PSD applause.]] [[ENP Protests.]] They don't know if there's transportation for everyone, but they're gonna take the pass, and then there's no train, there's no transport for people... [[Protests by PEV MP Mariana Silva.]] No, it wasn't us, Mrs. Member, and you know that.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u94	Even the subway was meant to privatize!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u95	During their six years of support to this government and this management had the opportunity to do so. It's not now, in a hurry, that we're gonna do it. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u96	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Transport intervention is not only a change in mobility, it is also a social policy for access to fundamental rights, such as work, health, education, culture and sport equipment, the release of family incomes, the value of living and social benefits and territory, economic promotion, combating climate change and improving air quality. For decades, populations, users, transport workers, their organizations, the electors of the CDU, the PCP and the ENP claimed that measures were taken to solve transport problems, problems of workers and populations. With a decisive intervention by the PCP and the ENP, funding of the Tax Reduction Support Programme in Public Transport was approved, the ART, to better serve the populations, attract more passengers to collective transport and reduce emissions. After more than 20 years with PS, PSD and CDS systematically block the PCP proposals, I repeat, after more than 20 years with PS, PSD and CDS systematically block the PCP proposals, we finally went on to have a single pass, valid for all careers, of all operators, in all the municipalities of the region, at a much lower price. The reduction in price made a huge difference in people's lives. For many users, the monthly cost was up to €200, for limited geographical use. This was a fundamental contribution to increasing the income available to families. We reaffirm today and here our proposals for these advances to be maintained and public transport becomes more effective and attractive. Among the goals outlined are the implementation of accessibility, mobility and transport infrastructures with greater consistency and coordination and the dynamization of innovative transport and mobility services and systems supported by technological solutions. The CFP has been affirming and proposing three key options for this sector: firstly, to set the objective of free public transport, with a maximum value of €30 in the municipality and €40 in the region, immediately, at national level and in all inter-regional links, the new mobility conditions and tariff reduction, already in force, with scope for all modes of transport and all operators, with a maximum value of €30 in the municipality and €40 in the region; secondly, to stabilize the source of financing and strengthen the amounts attached to the tariff reduction programme, with the establishment of a public transport service contribution, and to it being displaced from the third part of the value of the contribution of road service, without an increase of the ISP (tax on oil and energy products) ; thirdly, to plan and implement an investment programme for the increase of supply in quantity and quality, with the admission of workers, acquisition, maintenance and modernisation of the fleets of the public service and public transport and a public transport policy that diss, as well as the public transport. The first of these lines of action is the subject of today's debate. We welcome the Greens Ecological Party on the initiative of this agenda. The proposal presented by the CFP was to create the free transport programme for all children and young people up to the age of 18, allowing the unrestricted use of the regular collective transport of their area or region of residence, as well as of school transport in special circuits. On the other hand, the proposal of the CFP was also to ensure, throughout the country, the right to a 50% reduction in the use of regular public transport to users from 65 years of age. When free up to 12 years in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, the extension of free up to 18 years throughout the territory represents an important step towards the goal of free use of collective transport, covering, for the time being, particularly relevant age groups. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure consistency and fairness in tariff policy throughout the national territory in order to eliminate the observed inequalities in tariff regime and access to existing public transport in large areas of the country. On the other hand, more fairness should be given to the programme, so it is also important to implement the 50 % discount bonus for users from 65 years of age throughout the national territory, under the same conditions as it already applies today in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. in this Parliament, we have put forward concrete proposals, both legislative and budgetary, to move forward with these same options. In all of them, I repeat, in all of them, the PS voted on the right side and prevented their approval. The most recent was last month, when they dropped the financing law to the tariff reduction we proposed. Of course, now they say: “Now it was! this time we were going to have the measures and solutions that we had not before! » Now, while the PS and the right lacked this proposal from the CFP for stable financing, which would ensure continuity of tariff reduction, the Government at the same time presented a proposal of the State Budget for 2022 which pointed to cuts of EUR 130 million... [[Protests from PS André Pinotes Batista.]] ... in the financing of the pass, which, if approved, would put the system at risk of technical failure. The budget that was dropped was the budget of cuts in the pass, of 130 million euros! No matter how many more pirouettes they're trying to give, they won't be able to erase that fact. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, transport free is not a utopia. Free transport has existed and still exists today, in socialist countries and in capitalist countries. Some will say that this will only be possible with a availability of resources from which more dependent and impoverished countries, such as ours, do not have. But look at the example of the Lisbon Metropolitan, whose losses with speculative activities, such as the famous swap contracts, over the last 10 years, have exceeded the operational revenues in this period. In other words, all the ticket revenue was to cover expenses with financial speculation, which from the outset proves that it is possible to exclude those amounts. We can benefit people instead of banks with them! If Portugal is currently the third country in the European Union that makes the most use of individual transport, then the solution is not to bury millions in individual electric transport but to invest seriously in collective transport, not for the benefit of some, but for the benefit of all. The fundamental question that we put in this debate is that of strategic importance for our common future to build the path of demerchantization of public transport. These are options for an alternative policy, to defend national interest and to respond to the needs of workers and the people. That is what we talk about when we speak of a patriotic and leftist policy, and it is because of it that we will continue to fight. That is why they can continue to count on the Portuguese Communist Party. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u98	Mr Miguel Arrobas, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we discussed provides for the free use of public transport to three categories of people, being disabled persons, unemployed persons and persons under the age of 18 or under or students of compulsory education, i.e. until they complete secondary education. The first thing that's relevant to say is that, besides the air, there's nothing free. There is, yes, the difference between making the user pay or making the society in their whole pay. This is a clear political option that needs to be discussed, or at least alerted to its consequences. But I'll be right there. The effective promotion of public passenger transport cannot be carried out only by providing for a direct non-payment by users of public passenger transport, or by a price reduction. In fact, regardless of such a measure, it is necessary to strengthen investment in fleets, rolling stock, infrastructures and human resources. Only in this way will there be an increase in supply and an extension of transport networks, which guarantee their users regular, punctual, comfortable and safe transport, thus ensuring an improvement in the quality of the service capable of attracting more users. We have a good example of what has not been done well in recent years, for example, in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon: the value of social passes has been reduced, but this has not been accompanied by a stronger supply of transport. Therefore, people who could eventually switch to public transport might end up not doing so because they do not see a better service to be provided. With regard to the first category of persons with disabilities, the theme of mobility for these persons is not exhausted from the exemption from direct payment of the service. Long before that, it is important to promote accessibility. This alone contributes to the full exercise of the right, to the strengthening of social ties, to greater civic participation and, consequently, to an increase in inclusion and solidarity. It is up to the State to promote and implement actions aimed at guaranteeing and ensuring the rights of persons with special needs, in particular persons with conditional mobility. Decree-Law No 163/2006 established a 10-year period for the adaptation of public facilities, buildings, establishments and equipment. This period ended in 2017. There is, however, a number of transport infrastructures and rolling stock outside this country without the ability to offer people with reduced mobility conditions to use public transport. Question : What is it worth not directly charging for transport to disabled people if they cannot access it afterwards? For example, a disabled person living in Penamacor and if you want to travel to Covilhã will use public transport, practically without expression and so often without conditions, if nothing is charged? Or will a person who wants to travel between two of the 16 stations on the Lisbon metro that does not have accessibility to people with conditional mobility do so if he does not have to pay? Probably not! A similar reflection is valid for the population within the country. Question : how is it that someone who lives in the interior, where there is almost no public transport, has access to the exemption from tariffs, either because he is a disabled person, unemployed, because he is less or because he is still attending compulsory education? This bill that we discuss here is part of the view that the whole country is equal, and can therefore create even more inequality. To consider that the exemption from the cost of transport for users, even if limited to certain categories, has the same effect on the interior and the coast, assumes that there is some similarity between the reality of the supply of public transport on the coast and the supply of public transport on the inland. Well, that's not true, by no means. In other words, this may be a positive measure for public transport users, where they exist, at the same time constitutes a measure incapable of ensuring territorial justice between the national population. In fact, and because, as I said at the outset, there is nothing free of charge, we assume—because the bill does not specify—that the financial compensation would come out of the State budget, being all Portuguese, whether or not they have access to a good transport network, to pay for this measure. One of the main costs of internality is transport, which is essential to those who need, in a very severe way, to travel, and as I have already had the opportunity to say, that the access of the inhabitants of the interior to public transport is reduced, the offer very limited and unable to address the needs of the residents in that area of the country. And that's why a measure like this can generate inequality. We believe that the determination of exemption from the payment of transport to certain categories of persons — or, who knows, for all — could and should be left to the authorities, who know more about the needs of people and who already do so in some municipalities in the country. At national level it is important, yes, and it is up to the government to promote better transport to regions where there is no transport, or measures which, as far as transport is concerned, contribute to a reduction in territorial inequalities. It is important to know how we will compensate those who do not buy a monthly transport licence for the only and simple reason that they do not have public transport and that it would therefore not be useful to give such a payment exemption. In particular, the Government should undertake the study and development of measures to ensure that transport costs—from the tolls of motorways that are used to reach district capital or even to cross municipalities, to gasoline used because the public transport network simply does not exist or is ineffective— may be deducted from the collection by taxpayers of the regions where these shortcomings at the level of transport are part of the daily. on our part, we will not make this initiative impossible, but we believe that there are other solutions and other priorities for the governance of the country. The idea of implementing a free public transport regime is not new in the world, not even in Europe. The examples in which data were collected to assess the impact of such measures are rare, but there are examples in Europe, such as that of the capital of Estonia, Tallinn. In fact, in Tallinn, since 2013, the year of implementation of this policy, it was found that there was a slight decrease in the number of people who drive private cars and there was still a significant decrease in the percentage of people who prefer walking as a means of transport. In Portugal, would there be even more people walking on public transport, or would this not be a step towards 'Portuguese to see' before elections? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u100	There are no entries for requests for clarification, I give the floor, for an intervention, to Mrs Jamila Madeira of the PS. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Transport is a strategic element for the economy. They are indispensable to ensure freedom of movement and to enable people and goods to transpose distances, borders and natural barriers, having a direct impact on the everyday life of all citizens. The transport sector represents 25 % of greenhouse gas emissions. For this reason, this sector is critical in the process of decarbonization of the Portuguese economy. In order for the economy to function well in all regions we need sustainable, efficient and fully interconnected transport networks, which also include vehicle and bicycle sharing services and which take into account changes in user behaviour, characterization of them and mobility patterns from zone to zone. To assume that a good transport or mobility policy means exempting from the origin of some potential users, without which this means greater use, no more decarbonisation, no more access to transport by all those who lack it, is a response that seems to us too simplistic and clearly distorts the purpose it announces. To have better public transport implies strengthening in more populous areas, more rail to greater distances and response to the part for people or populations more isolated. However, it should be stressed that many have been the concerns of the current Government, in conjunction with the transport authorities, with a view to promoting a variety of tariff discounts appropriate to each reality, some being more general, such as the change to €40, and others for relevant segments according to their reality. This is how they apply the PART — Programme of Support for Tax Reduction in Public Transport, or PROTransP — Programme of Support for the Densification and Strengthening of the Public Transport Offer. In fact, much has been the palm road. And allow me to refer to myself, who come from a region, the Algarve, where mobility is very difficult for residents and also for those who visit us, and who tend to be very ensured by individual transport due to inadequate price, routes and equipment supporting it. In the Algarve, as in other parts of the country, this government, in a partnership with municipalities, has promoted new concessions with new responses, a path that is going on but which, of course, it is urgent that financial resources be placed in the service of people. By using, as an example, Algarve, I can tell you that the application of the PART programme by the association of municipalities has resulted in a 50 % reduction in the price of public road and rail transport passes and a maximum price of 40 € for these passes. Consequently, in 2019, we had a 100 % increase in the number of tickets sold and on the highway that increase was about 40 %. In the case of Algarve, it should also be noted that the intermunicipal community was the first to launch an international public invitation to tender for the granting of the public passenger transport service: 98 road public transport lines throughout the region, in a contract of EUR 85 million for the five-year period of the concession. from here to December, at the beginning of next week, we will have a new company, set up by competitive obligation and which will start the service exploitation period. With this new concession there will be the brand VAMUS - Transportation of the Algarve, which will become present throughout the transport system, an existing regular network that will have some adjustments studied to meet the needs identified by those who know them; it will be possible to provide on-demand transport service to places with 40 or more inhabitants who are not served by the regular network; there will be the service of AeroBus, which will allow the direct connection of the airport to some of the main cities of the Algarve, and the free transport of bicycles on the axis of the Ecovia do Litoral and EuroVelo 1. It is also important to highlight the renewal of the fleet of buses and the availability of free wi-fi on board as well as of real conditions of accessibility to disabled users. the municipalities will have to monitor and ensure that the contract is fulfilled and, like what happens in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, the municipalities of Algarve are negotiating an intermodal pass so that there are transhipments between means of transport, leading more people to use public transport. We know, and we are all aware of this, that the country has very different realities from the metropolitan area of Lisbon or the port in terms of mobility. That is why we also know that in order to respond to the populations and adapt the public transport service to their needs, it means looking closely at the problems, side by side with those who know the territory. Decentralisation, proximity, coherence, effectiveness and, of course, certain accounts are the way forward. Only in this way will we be able to promote the climate transition with greater social justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u102	Mr Carlos Silva, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Come, the Greens Ecological Party, for good intentions, propose a debate which aims to contribute to promoting the use of public transport. The PSD has no doubt as to the relevance of environmental and social policy that the discussion of these issues can represent for the evolution of public policies. Therefore, with regard to climate change and the minimization of its risks, we are faced with an emergency that should be of concern to everyone, being the transport sector one of the most contributing to greenhouse gas emissions. It is absolutely critical for the planet to promote the reduction in the use of the particular car, with the transfer of mobility of populations to the use of collective transport. We have repeatedly witnessed the application of incentives that try to induce citizens to change their mobility habits, but these have proved insufficient and the goals have fallen far short of the objectives to be achieved — in some cases, they are even fruitless. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u104	The conclusion we have drawn is that for further incentives that exist to promote the use of collective transport, particularly in pendulum movements, this accession depends on a good transport network that responds to the needs of users. The answer that citizens value is to be able to get to the workplace in hours and to circulate comfortably. What cannot even happen is the calvary that has been seen in recent years around public transport, including delays and removal of careers without prior notice, lack of hygiene and health in the cars and their infrastructures, even in many parts of the country where there is not even public transport that provides mobility to the citizens. And from this point of view, this government has been a real disaster in the past six years, an example of bad practices.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u105	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u106	The government has in its possession European mechanisms, programmes and funding, left by the government that took Portugal out of bankruptcy in which the Socialist Party, irresponsiblely, left us,... [[PSD applause.]] ...and he didn't take advantage of them. The government, since 2015, the socialist government, has only devoted itself to the sad task of making propaganda. You've already lost your account to the cry of new train acquisition ads, new rail expansion projects, but nothing comes out of paper, nothing leaves PowerPoint! The Prime Minister announces, with pump and circumstance, that Portugal is making the biggest investment in the last 100 years on rail, but the Portuguese are unable to visualize this investment. The Portuguese still don't see the trains pass! Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, who began by apologizing to the Portuguese for the work that was not carried out by his predecessor, gives conferences every month to make vows of love to the railway and affirms that it is now, in a kind of "heavy the train"! But this is no more than the virtual world of the socialist government, which has no adherence to reality. Let's get to the facts. We see the European Funding Programme, Railway 2020, the railway programme left by Passos Coelho, whose objective was to carry out a deep renewal in the railway from north to south by the end of 2020, increasing the railway by a few hundred kilometres. What happened? — ask you. Nothing relevant—I answer. Despite the government's misleading advertising, year after year, the programme's implementation rate in these six years is going to be a miserable 12 %. We recently learned that the deadlines will fail again, that several projects will not get to see the light of the day and that they will be submitted, in the form of a promise, to the calendars of the new PT 2030 program. Unbelievable, we have seen the government rejoice that there is no reason for the Portuguese to be concerned because we will not lose funds. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we may not lose the money, but the country has lost the opportunity to make the energy transition and decarbonisation of transport so propagated immediately and to invest in public transport to meet the challenges of sustainability, to make the economy more productive and to improve the quality of life of citizens. This instead of referring the current projects to the 2030 investment plan, where priorities, of course, would be other. Another example of the failure of the government is the successive announcements of the purchase of new trains. I would say that this situation has reached the limit, the state of administrative independence. See as a competition, promised in 2018, for the acquisition of 12 new cars for the regional service, which are so lacking, was until a few weeks ago at the Court of Auditors. And it was not because of the Court's blockade, it was because of the lack of answers from the Ministry regarding technical matters that were put to it by the Court itself. We're almost in 2022, trains could be here by now, but only now will it finally be made the order. It will be the same as saying that before 2025 or 2026 trains will not land. We still have the wrong action by the government in projects such as the Lisbon subway circular line, which does not pass from a car to tourists, and after an investment of EUR 400 million, the lisboetas will see their mobility diminished with the transhipments that will be created. However, the Minister's obsession and arrogance does not allow him to retreat, despite the warnings of all political forces in Parliament, without exception. This is no longer to talk about the old acquisition of 10 new boats for the transport of passengers on the Tejo, promised since 2016. A real telenovela that had a first contest for gas boats and in which, over four years, the government discovered that there was still no technology on the market for this model of ships. Now, six years ago, the Minister promises electric boats. However, passengers continue to despair and to be transported in their old gazelles in miserable conditions, but it is worth them, in spite of everything, their reliability. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u107	Let us also remember the months of crashing escalators and elevators in stations where it is necessary to deal with hundreds of meters of slope, brutally damaging the mobility of citizens who, for some reason, have reduced mobility. I can only refer to the call for alerting user committees that, in recent days, have warned that two of the four wheelchairs for access to the Lower Chiado station have been stopped for more than a month. We have been able to hear of everything, all kinds of excuses, the most ghastly excuses you can imagine to disguise this government's incompetence in dealing with the infrastructure sector. The Socialist Party goes to the point, as we have heard from Mr Hugo Costa, to confuse legislation with propaganda, but what it cannot even disguise is the incompetence in the management of these cases, so necessary to create a real policy of mobility and access to public transport. [[PSD applause.]] I speak of a policy that leads to the fact that the Portuguese have gained time in their day-to-day lives and saves money in their travels, reducing the structural delay that this socialist government has undergone over the past six years. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, mobility is a right, but it is said in favour of the truth that it is one of the most mistreated by the public authorities. Let us bear in mind that there is no true freedom without a network of public transport and infrastructure with territorial depth and comfort for the citizens. Breaking the isolation of localities is a form of combating territorial discrimination. It is not acceptable for the State to resign from the guarantee of these rights. The ENP seeks to contribute to the promotion of the use of public transport by means of a tariff modality which guarantees the free use of services. We understand, but these policies need to be based on principles of sustainability of the system itself that follow the country's economic and financial conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u109	We are not fully free policy advocates for all. That's a fiction, it doesn't exist. At the end of the day, taxpayers would end up paying this irresponsibility through more taxes. But we will be intransigent in the defense and protection of the most fragile, guaranteeing their dignity, because we understand that it is to these that society has to respond more urgently, being generous, attentiveer and more present, in a social-democratic vision of protection for the most needy, protecting who must be protected. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u110	The honourable Member was alerted that there was an inscription, originating at the Socialist Party's bench, to request clarifications. To that end, Mr Hugo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Silva, from your speech we can immediately withdraw a question and an illusion. The question is, how long has Mr. Deputies been away from public transport? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Certainly, since 2016 the honourable Member has not been on public transport, because what he described was the reality that existed until 2016. [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Member, I always travel to my land in public transport and, therefore, still this week I went on public transport...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u112	Then you must be late!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u113	No, sir, I'm not there. The illusion that he has withdrawn is that Mr. Deputies and PSD have lost the train of this debate, have lost the train of modernization and investment in public transport and are still standing at the station that dates back to 2015, the year of the end of the PSD government, in which the order was to dismantle, de-invest and privatize. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And I give you the example of the railway, which you talked about in your speech, which you did not talk about long ago. In the railway, there are virtually no longer delays or suppressions, as a result of a strong investment in CP and EMEF: there has been a recovery of rolling stock that has been stopped for years; the largest purchase of new rolling stock that the country has already executed; the infrastructure is being virtually all renewed; for the first time CP has a public service contract with the Government ; it has been signed, in CP and EMEF, business agreements that deserve the approval of all trade unions ; and we have done the PART, with which we have achieved the greatest tariff reduction in public transport that has ever been made in this country. All this time, all this way, where was the PSD? Oh, my God! He was stopped in 2015. Mr Carlos Silva, before I ask you a few more questions, let me make the following statement on behalf of the Socialist Party: if the forthcoming legislative elections result in a new PS government, the policy of investment and modernisation of public transport is even to continue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And what will the PSD do if it becomes government? Are you going to end the PART? Are you going back to the privatisations?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u114	You have every idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u115	I know that you will certainly not be able to answer me, because you still do not know what train the PSD will catch, whether it is at the Rio station or at the Rangel station. [[PS laughter.]] [[PSD protests.]] But even the PSD doesn't know if it will be at the Rio station or at the Rangel station that the PSD will begin its journey, what we know is that privatizing, dismantling, disinvesting will be the policy of its government. If this is not the case, Mr President, today it is committed not to privatizing public transport companies, not to ending the PART if it is a government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what the PSD should say, that it undertakes not to finish the PART and not to give up public transport companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u116	Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say, with all sympathy, that there are no trains! It's not the Rio train or the Rangel train. There are no trains! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS laughter and protests.]] Unfortunately, the Portuguese continue to wait at the station for trains to pass, because they do not exist. And about talking about trains, let me tell you that it seems to me that you haven't been on a train for many years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u118	I always do!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u119	But reality is the same. Don't you see the news every day? The reality is that with your government there is a brutal delay in investing in new railways and there are no promises. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u120	I would also understand that, eventually, you could say that Mr Finance Minister does not give money for the purchase of trains, or whatever. I would still understand that, because of the difficulties of the country, but not! See, it's always okay. Mr Prime Minister announces new investments, the Minister of Infrastructure does not stop talking about new investments, but nothing appears. In other words, you have been in the government for six years, in 2018 they made a promise to acquire 12 new cars for the regional service—which is unfortunate, so much so that people walk by taxi, at the expense of the CP, to get to the various locations—and the trains still do not show up. More: In 2019, you sent the case to the Court of Auditors and, in administrative terms, they were marimbar for it. The PSD, in this Parliament, had to be alerted to the Minister for the process to be dispatched the following week. This is the PSD function. Mr. Deputy asked me where the PSD was. Answer : PSD is in opposition and is monitoring government activity. That's what's happened over the past six years. [[PSD applause.]] If I may allow myself, Mr President, still on the PART, since I am being challenged to talk about the matter, I would like to say that we will not end with the PART, but we manifest reservations about the PART. You accuse us, in the form of lies, of being against the PART, but we are not against, we manifest reservations and time has come to give us reason. Entities authorized in this country, such as the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the IMT have come to say that this measure of the PART does not bring social justice and puts the Country at two speeds. There are more favoured areas than others, there are first-class citizens and second-class citizens, and so we will have an action on the PART. However, we are not going to end the PART because it is an important measure from the point of view of cohesion, but it must be sustainable, there must be those who pay. [[PS protests.]] You have created the measure, created the incentive and now you want to put the cameras to pay for the PART. That's what the ladies are for. Camera presidents have come to warn, saying that the measure is not correct. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u121	For an intervention, Mr André Pinotes Batista, of the PS, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I should like to welcome the ENP for the legislative initiative it has brought us and not only has it allowed us to debate this same initiative but it has also allowed us to take a look back on the enormous journey made over the past six years. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Right-wing Members, who elucidates you on our starting point on this trip. We remember well the pandemic that was left and it is very difficult to hear Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD, speaking of a reality that clearly does not exist, of trains-phants, of imaginary trains, forgetting that in river mode, in Soflusa and Transtejo, your solution was to sell boats, because there would be more boats. As far as heavy road transport is concerned, Portuguese citizens are well aware that your major measure was the direct privatization of the STCP ( Corporation of Collective Transport of Port ). In Lisbon, with Carris, they were preparing to do the same. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]] Mrs. Members, the question is whether they do not have a bit of political stink when they come here demanding exactly the opposite of what they have done in times far beyond the troika, showing, indeed, pleasure in the pain they have inflicted. Let me be very clear about the following: hearing the right to speak of the CP and the railway is, for us, an exercise of great self-sufficientness to maintain democratic respect. Today, those who have left the CP, who have closed the workshops, who have invested in the office capacity, who have not invested, who have not taken off paper 0, 01 € forget that in Guifões we have a workshop that is setting up a set of cars, that we are investing in equipment, that we are betting on the formation of frames to maintain the know-how. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the PSD Member does not know, the PSD Member has not seen, the PSD Member has not heard! In fact, such is no novelty for those who delete the blackest period for public transport: the Government of V. Exa! Allow me to make the counterpoint, because I could spend the rest of my time lamenting the terrible attacks they have made on public transport, but I would rather welcome what has been done. It is very important that we realize that the left-wing majority and the government have rejected tariff support, because you have not been able to cut the most disadvantaged. I heard the ladies today. Ladies and gentlemen said transport is a right. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, how they humiliated this right! How they attacked this right! How they threatened this question so essential to the Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We rejected it, but we did not limit ourselves to saying it: we went further and imposed measures, we imposed solutions. The PART is the most revolutionary measure of public transport in Portugal. It is very difficult to debate with a right that starts by saying that the measure is wrong and then to say that they voted against it, but that they will not end it. Indeed, this is a road of zigzags made in transport, which does not scare us by your practice, but which we regret for the fear that we have of what may come to impose in the event of a right-wing government. Was there such a simple question to which the right did not answer: privatize or not privatize? We know that if we return, the right will privatize and gladly because the right hand interest is not the passengers, it is not the citizens, the right hand interest is located in another quadrant.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u123	He's a fundamentalist!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u124	Let me also welcome the legal regime of the public transport service, which has allowed transport authorities to delegate the planning and management of new solutions, but also the company's agreements. It is important to highlight the social peace that has always been in these six years, a social peace as important as that which we are going to assist in maintaining the quality of services.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u125	Say it's on the right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u126	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to make a little reflection on the left because, if the right has never embarked on this trip—if it had ever taken off, it was to sabotage the road—there was a set of political forces on the left who had come to grips with this development path. at this point, we need to draw attention to the fact that Bill No. 1022 / XIV / 3. a (PEV), which would establish the free collective transport for people with disabilities and for people under 18 years of age, have parts that, obviously, we subscribe and that are in our action, will be in our program and will be fulfilled. However, we regret, from the outset, that they have mixed such a vast object, which covers 1,300,000 people in different situations, which would have a difficult financial impact to estimate, because we do not know what accession would have in supply and demand. If it were 25 %, we would be talking about 192 million euros; if it was 50 %, we would be talking about 384 million euros; if it were 100 %, by utopia—not that the measure is a utopia, but there are no perfect designs—the impact would be 768 million euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u127	Now there are difficulties!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u128	For the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, universality is the most important factor. Freeness has advantages, as is evident, but at the same time it has to be used with a lot of parsimony, choosing exactly who we want to achieve, under the penalty of being able to be financing free of charge what does not need to be financed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u129	Austerity! Austerity!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u130	Therefore, we must say that the cost is not the only conditioner and that in some cases there would be a disproportionate increase in public charges for the benefits that we would achieve.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u131	That's austerity!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u132	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with a balance sheet that can be very important from a perspective point of view. Portuguese and Portuguese with lower incomes know very well who wants the privatization of what guarantees their daily work or studies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u133	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u134	I shall end, Mr President, with the idea that the left has to rejoin itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u135	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u136	In the six years that the left was united, public transport evolved. The Socialist Party expects as much confidence as possible to continue a course of success and to prevent the right from ever again undermining Portuguese public transport. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u137	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no entries, so we are moving to the closing stage. I give the floor to Mrs Mariana Silva, who will make her intervention available for the accumulation of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the close of this important debate, we would like to stress the concern of all banks regarding the need to combat climate change, but the real test cannot be taken by words or speeches. So we will wait for the vote on this initiative that The Greens have brought to discussion, to realize who is really concerned about this global threat and who is only left by the words, until the scenario is nothing encouraging. Let us see: greenhouse gas with greater expression in Portugal is CO2, which accounts for 76% of total national emissions. Among the most responsible sectors in CO2 emissions are virtually equal production and transformation of energy and then transport. In the period 1990 to 2018, transport was the sector whose most emissions increased, with a growth of 8, 7 % between 2013 and 2018, representing the road sector 90 % of total emissions in the transport sector. This trend is largely due to the use of the individual car and results from a disastrous policy, for decades and decades, of de-investment in public transport, which makes us today have a very weak public transport network, in view of the needs of the people. Portugal is equipped with a set of instruments that govern political decisions related to climate issues and impose a cross-section in various government sectors and in society as a whole. The performance of public authorities is decisive, as well as that of economic actors and citizens in general. We are all indispensable for this fight and to claim the necessary actions. With regard to mitigating the climate change process, Portugal needs to create a system of collective transport that responds to the needs of the population and to encourage smooth and active mobility. The response to the basic needs of the citizens has been referred to the dependence of the private car for many years, with serious environmental and social impacts. It was mainly the absence of adequate alternatives to collective transport, both at the price level and available times or, even worse, the offer of service. The truth is that when this offer and these conditions exist, the citizens adhere, as proved by the PART. This was also achieved thanks to the insistence of the Greens, who have never stopped beating for this measure and have led the PS Government to accept it, and as a result the substantial increase of passengers in all collective means of transport. The PS has never foreseen this measure in its programme and, as seen by the Government's reaction to the ENP proposals in the State budget, being completely free of charge, would never realize it. The Greens argue that the PART, the most effective measure in protecting the environment taken in recent years, is extended to the entire national territory with equal tariffs and defends a way of free public transport. in this framework, today, we brought to the discussion a bill that establishes the free use of public transport for disabled people, for unemployed people, for people aged 18 or under and for students of compulsory education. The Greens believe that public transport is a fundamental right for citizens, including on the basis of access to other rights, such as health, education, culture, justice and leisure. Public transport is essential to promote territorial cohesion, attracting investment and population to the interior. Public transport is a key component of decarbonisation and mitigation and combating climate change. The radiography of the last 40 years of public transport in Portugal shows a continuous degradation and reduction of supply, whether rail or road, in collective transport, with a particular incidence within the country. For years, the Greens have been fighting for a public transport policy that must have as its central axis railway transport, which results in lower environmental impacts, greater energy efficiency, lower soil waterproofing, greater harmonisation in landscape integration, greater security, higher level of comfort, as well as a good relationship between cost and sustainability of investment and potential use. It is also worth noting that rail transport has the potential to replace short-distance air transport with clear environmental benefits. It is therefore essential to bring railways to all district capitals, to reactivate closed lines and to determine priorities and investment deadlines, including line electrification, as well as the acquisition of more circulating material. Despite this priority, it is essential that rail supply be complemented and linked with other modes of public transport that meet the specificities and needs of each region, to serve the people and local development. The Greens do not forget that action is needed to ensure that smooth means of transport have all the conditions of movement and safety to become a real alternative in the movement of citizens at national level. The solution goes through investment in a good network of collective transport, which serves the needs of populations at affordable prices, as well as creating conditions for the extension of the use of soft and active modes of mobility. In order to involve everyone in the process of mitigation and combating climate change, so that we can all make a great contribution in our day-to-day life, so that everyone living in Portugal can have the option of choosing more sustainable behaviors, it is necessary to take important steps. Today, the contribution of the Greens is to bring this discussion and call all the Members. Members to approve this initiative, which represents a safe step in the contribution that Portugal can make to the survival of the planet and to improving mobility. Through this draft law, the ENP makes another contribution to promoting the use of collective transport, this time by means of a tariff modality that guarantees the free use of collective passenger transport services to specific segments of the population. It is an effective and affordable measure from the budgetary point of view, since the overwhelming majority of young people already have the right to school transport, only to extend to those who do not yet have access and to extend the possibility of access. As for the unemployed, it is expected that theirs will be a transitional situation, in which free transport will even make it easier. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in conclusion, I would like to say that the vote on this bill will identify those who only adhere to promises of love for the environment and the planet, who remain with the quiet consciousness because they sign protocols or then others, those who do not rest as long as the promises and protocols do not turn into actions. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u139	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when we have quorum, we shall begin the votes. [[Pause.]] We begin with the general vote on Bill No. 1022 / XIV / 3. a (PV) — sets free of charge for the use of public transport for disabled persons, unemployed persons, persons aged 18 or under and students of compulsory education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u140	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u141	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u142	Mr President, I would just like to inform you that, individually, I will make a written statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u143	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 663 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the opening of an emergency service at Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 719 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Reopening of emergencies and strengthening of Dr. Francisco Zagalo hospital in Ovar. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and IL abstentions.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 733 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent start of the process to promote the necessary works in the operating block of Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital, Ovar, Aveiro district. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, having been approved, the three draft resolutions are down to 9. the Commission. We will now vote for draft resolution No 7 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A28, A41, A42 and A29. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the Members of the PS Ascension Simões and Cristina Mendes da Silva and the PSDP, the PAN and the PS PS Deputies Anabella Rodrigues, Cristina Sousa, Dora Brandão, Santinho Pacheco and Silvia Torres.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u144	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u145	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u146	Mr President, I would like to inform you that I shall, together with the Members of the PSD Eduardo Teixeira and Emília Cerqueira of the electoral circle of Viana do Castelo, present a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u147	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u148	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u149	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u150	Mr President, I would like to announce that on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Members Hugo Carvalho, Maria Germana Rocha, Paulo Rios de Oliveira and Sofia Matos, will be presented with a written vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u151	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 8 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A25. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, in favour of BE, the PCP, the PEV, the CH, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the Members of the PS Ascension Simões, Cristina Sousa, Francisco Rocha, Hortense Martins, Joana Bento, João Azevedo, Joaquim Barreto, José Rui Cruz, Lúcia Araújo Silva, Maria da Graça Reis, Nuno Fazenda and Santinho Pacheco and PSD and PAN abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u152	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u153	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u154	Mr. President, I would like to inform you that Mr. PSD Members elected by the Aveiro electoral circle will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u155	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We have to vote for draft resolution No 9 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A23. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the Members of the PS Ascenso Simões, Cristina Sousa, Francisco Rocha, Hortense Martins, Hugo Costa, Joana Bento, Joaquim Barreto, Manuel dos Santos Afonso, Mara Coelho, Martina Jesus, Nuno Fazenda and Santinho Pacheco and withdrawals from the PSD and PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u156	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u157	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u158	Mr President, I would like to announce that it will be presented, on my behalf and by the honourable Members. Mr António Gameiro, Manuel dos Santos Afonso and Mara Coelho, a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u159	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 10 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Removal of tolls in A24. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, in favour of BE, the PCP, the PEV, the CH, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the Deputies of the PS Ascension Simões, Cristina Sousa, Francisco Rocha, Hortense Martins, Joana Bento, João Azevedo, Joaquim Barreto, José Rui Cruz, Lúcia Araújo Silva, Maria da Graça Reis and Santinho Pacheco and the PSD Deputies Artur Sovereign Andrade and Cláudia Bento and abstentions from PSD and PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u160	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u161	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u162	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u163	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 11 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By abolishing the tolls on the Way of the Child. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the Deputies of PS Ana Passos, Ascension Simões, Fernando Anastácio, Francisco Pereira Oliveira, Francisco Rocha, Jamila Madeira, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Graça and Maria Joaquina Matos and abstentions of PSD, PAN, IL and of the Deputies of PS Cristina Sousa, Joana Bento and Santinho Pacheco.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 19 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of toll rates in A22 / Via do Infante. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the Deputies of PS Ana Passos, Ascension Simões, Fernando Anastácio, Francisco Pereira Oliveira, Francisco Rocha, Jamila Madeira, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Graça and Maria Joaquina Matos and abstentions from PSD, PAN, IL and from PS President Joana Bento, Cristina Sousa and Santinho Pacheco.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u164	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u165	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u166	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will make a statement of vote on all the votes we have made so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u167	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u168	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u169	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u170	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will present on my behalf and Mrs Cristina Sousa with a statement of vote on all the votes we have made so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u171	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will generally vote for Resolution Project No. 1275 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the administration of the ports of Algarve and the requalification and recovery of the fishing and commercial ports in the region. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH, the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS Deputies Ana Passos, Francisco Pereira Oliveira, Jamila Madeira, Luís Graça and Maria Joaquina Matos, the vote against the IL and the abstentions from PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and Non-registered Deputy Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u172	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u173	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u174	Mr President, I would like to inform you that Members Ana Passos, Francisco Pereira Oliveira, Jamila Madeira, Joaquina Matos and I will present a statement of vote on these last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u175	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1255 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By creating the administration of the ports of Algarve, integrating all commercial, fishing and recreational ports of the Algarve region. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP, the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Ana Passos, Francisco Pereira Oliveira, Jamila Madeira, Luís Graça and Maria Joaquina Matos, the vote against the IL and the abstentions from PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and non-registered deputy Cristina Rodrigues.]] We now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 943 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — It proposes measures to initiate the procedures for the construction of the New Building, known as Corpo G, of the Beja hospital. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the general vote on draft resolution No 1073 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Procedures for the expansion of José Joaquim Fernandes Hospital in Beja. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 157 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Construction of the new hospital in Barcelos. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PSD, CDS-PP and IL.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1503 / XIV / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary procedures for the construction of the new Barcelos hospital. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and BE abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u176	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u177	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u178	Mr President, it was only to announce that, in the previous vote, by a clear pardon, we voted against, but the vote of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party is abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u179	So the point of vote is just against abstention?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u180	Exactly, in the Resolution Project No 157 / XIV / 1. a ( BE).
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u181	It does not alter the final outcome of the vote, but it is recorded. We are going to vote, in general, on Resolution Project No 1514 / XIV / 3. a ( PCP ) — Construction of the new hospital in Barcelos. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and IL and abstention from the PSD.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 776 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — In defense of the improvement of health care in the Coimbra district and the reversal of the merger process of CHUC hospitals, E.P.E. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and IL abstention.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1440 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strategic Plan for the General Hospital ( Covões ) of the Hospital and University Centre of Coimbra. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Cristina Jesus, Raquel Ferreira and Tiago Estévão Martins and votes against the PS.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1336 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Regulation of the legislative framework applicable to harassment at work in relation to occupational accidents and diseases. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] Finally, we will vote on draft resolution No 1393 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends that the Government publish the updated list of occupational diseases including diseases resulting from the practice of occupational harassment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of today's votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u182	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u183	Please, Mr. Luís Carneiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u184	Mr President, I would like to inform you that I, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes and Mr Pedro Cegonho had a hearing with Mr Prime Minister on issues related to the pandemic, and when we arrived here we did not check the quorum, although we had participated in a significant part of the votes. He therefore called on the Bureau to clarify this justification for the verification of quorum.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u185	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Nuno Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u186	Mr President, it is for the same purpose to say that I was here, despite my computer saying no.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u187	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. André Coelho Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u188	Mr President, I have asked for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u189	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u190	Mr President, I have asked for the same word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u191	These absences/presences are recorded to be taken into account by the services. I now give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha's Secretary to make a few announcements to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u192	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I would first of all like to announce that Mrs Cláudia André of the PSD, who is attending this plenary by video conferencing because of being in prophylactic isolation, voted in favour of the draft resolution No 9 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ). I would also like to inform the plenary that Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, in accordance with and for the purposes of Article 157 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, decided to refer the complaint submitted by Mr Miguel Arrobas and Mr Telmo Correia, of the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, against inaccuracies of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 199 / XIV, published in the Diário da Assembleia da República, II Series-A, No 37, of 15 November 2021. However, they entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the following legislative initiatives: Resolution Projects Nos. 1528 / XIV / 3. ( CH), 12 / 14 / 3. a ( CH), 1530 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH), 1531 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH), 1532 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH), 1533 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH), 1534 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH), 1535 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH), 1536 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH), 1537 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH) and 1538 / XIV/ 3. a ( PS ) and Draft Law No 1026 / XIV/ 3. a ( PS ). It is still up to me to realize that the honourable Members. Mr Pedro Morais Soares, CDS-PP, and Mr Cláudia André and Mr Alexandre Poço, of the PSD, attended the work of this plenary through videoconferencing for being found in prophylactic isolation. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-24.u193	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. To finish the work, it is up to me to announce the agenda for the next plenary session, which will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 25 November, at 3 p.m. Thus, in the first point of our order of business, which results from a PS marking, the Bills Nos. 993 / XIV / 3 will be under consideration. a ( PS ) — Increases the period of absence justified by the death of a descendant of 1. the degree in the straight or equal line ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No. 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 767 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the parental mourning regime and recognize the right to mourning in case of gestational loss, 926 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Change the system of mourning errors, making the seventh amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 927 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extends the period of deficiencies justified by the death of a spouse, relative or relative ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 949 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — By extending the period of absences justified by the death of spouse, relative or relative or gestational loss ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 1018 / XIV/ 3. a ( PSD ) — Extension of the period of deficiencies justified by the death of a child for 20 days, 1023 / XIV/ 3. a ( PCP ) — Extended days of fault due to the death of descendants 1. the degree of the line straight, spouse, ascending, relatives or related (thirteenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No. 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 1024 / XIV / 3. a ( IL) — Alter the scheme of errors justified by the death of a descendant and 1025 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH) — Increases the mourning days provided for in the Labour Code and recognizes the right to mourning in case of gestational loss, generally as well as Petition No 317 / XIV/3. a (Creating — Association of Parents and Friends of Children with Cancer) — Amendment of the legal regime of parental mourning. The second point of our agenda concerns the general assessment of Bill No. 1026 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — Extension of the period of entry into force of Law No 73 / 2021 of 12 November approving the restructuring of the Portuguese Border Control System by recasting the internal security forces and services regime and laying down other rules for the rehabilitation of competences and resources of the Foreign and Border Service. Finally, there will be a vote. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, until tomorrow at 3 p.m. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 53 minutes.]]
