ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] Let us start our plenary meeting, whose agenda has been amended. A current debate was planned, which will not take place today because of the illness of the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. Before we begin the first item on our agenda, I would ask Secretary Diogo Leon to announce the various legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted to the motion for a resolution No 18 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which drops to 2. the Commission, and the Bill No 69 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which falls to 6. the Commission. Mr. President, that's all.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary Diogo León. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will enter the first item on the agenda, which consists in the assessment of the Draft Resolution No 800 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Granting of National Pantheon honors to José Maria de Eça de Queiroz. To present the project, Mr. José Luís Carneiro, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Dr. Afonso Reis Cabral, writer and trinet of Eça de Queiroz, in accordance with the Board of Directors of the Eça de Queiroz Foundation and its family. The Assembly of the Republic will appreciate and decide on the draft resolution to grant National Pantheon honor to José Maria de Eça de Queiroz. The honours of Pantheon National are intended to honor and perpetuate the memory of Portuguese citizens who, among other patriotic facts, have distinguished themselves, in particular in the expansion of Portuguese culture, in literary creation and in favor of the dignity of the human person. Now, Eça de Queiroz is superiorly unique and one of the largest components of national literature and culture. In diplomatic function, he defended with superior intelligence and with courage the dignity of the human being. The decision of this Parliament will constitute a thank you to your family, who, in good time, decided to attach its material and immaterial heritage to the Foundation with its name, based in Santa Cruz do Douro, in the municipality of Baião. Today, she is presided over by the great-grandfather Afonso Eça de Queiroz Cabral. It is fair and appropriate to remember Manuel de Castro, his grandson, who presided over the Baião Chamber, and Maria da Graça Salema de Castro, a promoter, along with the constitution of the Foundation itself, of a development project whose seeds were thrown to the lands of that region in the 60s, with her friend Teresa Avillez, as she would like to remember. Both here deserved to be remembered and recognized by the Foundation's building work, such as Artur Carvalho Borges, Manuel Pereira Cardoso and so many who over the years helped to be born one of the most important stages of regional development and of national and international affirmation of Portuguese language and culture. It is a recognition of the self-sufficient effort of many who deserve due public recognition in the near future. It is the case of Carlos Reis, a member of the Cultural Council, who chaired the Association of Friends of Eça de Queiroz, whose first statutory objective was to create the conditions for the institution of the Foundation ; the members of the Cultural Council, the Graemos, the Clubs and the Literary Circles and the National Centre of Culture, in the person of Guilherme d’ Oliveira Martins, who promote their cultural and literary legacy. It is a recognition of the support of the authorities of Baião, Amarante, Cinfanes, Resende, Porto, Vila Nova de Gaia, Matosinhos, Póvoa de Varzim, Coimbra, Aveiro, Lisboa, Sintra and Évora. It is a recognition to those who, so many, in the Ministry of Culture and in other areas, in different governments, from Teresa Patrício Gouveia, Santana Lopes, Nunes Liberato and Isabel Pires de Lima, understood the importance of this cultural project. Members of all parties. to the Trucks Institute and the Mecens. It is also a tribute to the people and to a region that he so eloquently learned to exalt in his correspondence, when, on May 29, 1892, he wrote to his friend Eduardo Prado: « Dear Prado, this land is undoubtedly the masterpiece of the great landscaper who is in heaven. What a beauty! Everything sings. They sing, working diggers and harvesters. Everywhere I was, I didn't see a palm of ground where you could sit your foot without any danger of crushing a seed." Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will all agree with the literary and cultural foundations expressed in the draft resolution. We all recognize in Eça the brightness of a free spirit, cult, humanist argument, which, with a writing of clear words, of fine content and of higher irony, showed the contradictions of life in society and made light on the tension between the worlds of passion and the worlds of reason. He showed us to the mirror, as human beings. Strong and fragile, made of light and shadow. With his characters, he entered into the understanding of human nature. From this understanding and from its sharing the literary work opened to the world, it became universal. It is even a writer who is appreciated in all the geography of the world. I met your home in Paris. I remember seeing his manuscripts in the Royal Portuguese Reading Office in Rio de Janeiro. I remember the cult that is lent to you in the coffee La Columnta Egyptiana, in the city of Havana, in whose University, in 2016, was created the Chair Eça de Queiroz. Today, I highlight two dimensions of his message, present in literary work and diplomatic activity. First dimension: the message on development, present in its account « Civilization», first published in Brazil and then in Portugal as The City and the Mountains. For those who don't read, it's worth reading. For whom I've read, it's worth a rereading. The dialogue between urban and cosmopolitan Jacinto and rural Zé Fernandes also enables us today, as in the past, to understand more deeply the "source of tedio" which, not rarely, takes account of the so-called "high middle class" and which threatened to undermine the foundations of belief in the moral and technical progress of mankind. The Jacinto, of the City and the Mountains, left behind « the lights of Paris », declined the determinism and, arrived at Quinta de Vila Nova, in Santa Cruz do Douro, in the novel that would be called Quinta de Tormes, asked the Silverio, with deep social consciousness: « What I ask is whether here in Tormes, on my property, within these fields, which are mine, there are people who work for me, and who are hungry. It's ordered, Silverio. And I also want to know the income that these people pay, the contracts that exist, to improve them. There is so much to improve». We are still trying to overcome inequalities today. We continue to want to balance growth with sustainable human development. Now, it is possible to find in this novel a whole thesis on how, individually and collectively, we live in a permanent tension between the achievements of the technique, which brings us the feeling of power over nature, on the one hand, and on the other, the feeling of emptiness and powerlessness to cope with crises like that which we are going through on a global scale. But we learn from Jacinto's idealism and make, with the realism of Zé Fernandes, the changes that are necessary to make: first, in attitudes and behaviors; then, in the works that serve people with humanist values.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u5	Mr President, I ask you to synthesize your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u6	I shall conclude, Mr President. Second dimension: your message about humanism. Esça de Queiroz departed to Havana, by mission given to him by the Minister for Foreign Affairs andrade Corvo. There it protected minorities who, coming from China and scale in Macau, were the object of exploitation in the production of sugarcane. However, this protection to minorities is asking us today, since we are with the presidency of the European Union and are seeking to update the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Remembering this humanist message is to remember that the same dignity of every human being must always be defended. They have entrusted me with this responsibility, Mr President, which I have accepted. After the opening up of all parliamentary groups to move forward with this initiative, it is time for us to show our appreciation for Eça de Queiroz and for this responsibility to be ours. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u7	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : José Maria de Eça de Queiroz deserves the honor of National Pantheon and it is foolish for me to try to evoke it in just one minute, unless he resorts to his own words. Eça was an artificial eximilar, sometimes alfayate, sometimes swordsman of Portuguese, as in this sentence: « Pessimism is excellent for inerts, because it mitigates the unfortunate crime of inertia». Eça had a fine intuition for human nature, which he seductively formulated, as here: "Curiosity, instinct of infinite complexity, leads, on the one hand, to listen to the doors and, on the other, to discover America". Eça was an impious analyst in Portuguese politics and, in the following example, it was timeless: « This is how long in Portugal political destinations have been governed. Economic and Social Committee opinion: Bull. Country governed by chance, governed by vanity and interests, by speculation and corruption, by privilege and influence of chamberlain". Eça had a world and could compare experiences, identifying the foundations of our persistent delay: « In Portugal, the public has an idea that the government must do everything, think about everything, start everything; it is drawn from here the conclusion that we are a people without initiator powers, good to be protected, unworthy of broad freedom, and unfit for independence. Our relative poverty is attributed to this political and social habit of relying on everything by the government". He knew that humor was, and will be, the smartest weapon of free people against tyranny, as in this phrase that is an authentic missile: « Politicians and diapers must be changed from time to time and for the same reason». José Maria de Eça de Queiroz deserves the honor of National Pantheon and also deserves to be read again by whoever commands this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u9	For the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « He never handled business, nor did he run companies, nor did he exercise any kind of authority or power over the men of his time. He was neither general nor Minister of State, nor Member of the Courts, and never public authorities, nor wise or recreational societies voted for him the civic crown, hero, martyr or simple and uncharacterized visconde. He was merely an artist in the most extreme and strict meaning of this word». This said of Eça de Queiroz his friend Ramalho Ortigão, in the inauguration of a monument in his honor in 1903. As an artist, Eça exposed to the country its truth, eternaled the truth of a realist, through an immense constellation of characters, his letters and his harps. A truth that remains current, so we want to stop in it: "This is what should be, and I think it really is, the point of discussion between us. I say that Portugal, at this time, in which it cannot make achievements, nor has it already continents to discover, should strive to gain a place among the nations civilized by its education, its literature, its science, its art – thus proving that it still exists because it still thinks. We were great for what once made the nations great, the strength. We try to make ourselves strong for what the nations are doing today — the idea. This wrote Eça, in 1880, Pinheiro Chagas, «the faithful enemies», as called them Maria Filomena Monica. And the parliamentarians, one of the favorite targets of their incisive Farpas, also dedicated long lines of irony. With the proper ability to fit, here I share a statement with the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen: "If not, let us see: every day those illustrious Members tell each other: It is false! It's a lie! It's so fake! And they don't freak out, they don't trade two bullets. Pity innocency! Evangelical cordura! It looks like a Parliament educated by S. Francisco de Sales. (...) Because it is a school of humility in Parliament. Never in any place as there was the insult received with such curved patience, the denied welcome with such intense resignation. It is a course of Christian charity! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The President of the Fundação Eça de Queiroz, Afonso Eça de Queiroz Cabral, who fulfilled through his son Afonso Reis Cabral, present here in the galleries, recently said that too evident were the literary qualities that justify, without reservation and past 120 years of his death, the award of the honours of Pantheon National to the material and immaterial memory of the writer. On the day he heard of his death on August 20, 1900, Ramalho Ortigão wrote to his son-in-law: « The death of the Cheiroz Axis is a huge misfortune. He was an entirely great artist, not only in relation to Portugal, but in relation to the world.” In the National Pantheon, therefore, this dignified place, designed in the country and in the world and its eternal memory in all our collective memory. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u11	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party today brings up a proposal for this House to grant National Pantheon honor to José Maria de Eça de Queiroz. As we know, the legal framework defining and regulating the honours of Pantheon National, Law No. 28/2000, establishes very clearly that such honours are intended, and I quote, "to honour and perpetuate the memory of Portuguese citizens who have distinguished themselves by services provided to the country, in the exercise of high public office, military services, in the expansion of Portuguese culture, in literary, scientific and artistic creation or in the defence of the values of civilization, in favour of the dignity of the human person and the cause of freedom". Now, I pay attention to the legal framework that defines and regulates the honours of Pantheon National, in the perspective of the Greens, when we speak of Eça de Queiroz we speak of a person who fits exactly into the assumptions set there, and is not only because of his huge dimension as a novelist, as a writer. In fact, Eça de Queiroz, one of the greatest novelists in the history of Portuguese literature and who looked at art as a powerful and transforming instrument of societies, was lord of an unusual humanist consciousness, especially at the time, a social consciousness that led him, including, to rise against the slavery to which the workers of the sugar engineering were subjected at that time in Cuba. In addition to several participations in newspapers, be Portuguese, be Brazilian, Eça de Queiroz left us, as a novelist, eternal works such as The Maias, The Crime of the Yellow Father or The First Basil. These works were the subject of numerous editions and translations, national and foreign cinematographic adaptations and also became an integral part of school programs, which gives us an idea of the greatness and cultural dimension of his work. So much so that no one contests the fact that Eça de Queiroz has indisputably marked the Portuguese language and few have done so and has contributed to the expansion of Portuguese culture in an absolutely unique way. In view of these facts, the Greens fully follow the aims of the Socialist Party in the proposal that today brings the debate and that this House intends to grant national Pantheon honours to José Maria de Eça de Queiroz.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u13	For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Rios has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to congratulate the Board of Directors of the Eça de Queiroz Foundation and the relatives of José Maria de Eça de Queiroz, here present. unlike other distinctions or honours, the award of the honors of Pantheon is the exclusive competence of the Assembly of the Republic and this act will always be substantiated, covering the form of resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, as we do today. For us, this is not, nor can it be, any act, not even common. If we consider that such honours are intended to honor and perpetuate the memory of the Portuguese citizens who have provided high services to the country, and I apologize to repeat, we will realize that the singularity and relevance of this concession are reserved to very few, very few. Several have been the initiatives or the votes which seek to honor or give various honours and which in this Parliament cause reservations or fears of trivialization or vulgarization of what should be rare and valued. But, fortunately, this is not the case, it is not the case of José Maria de Eça de Queiros. of ours, it was one of the greatest and his work, his memory and the freshness and modernity of his legacy remain alive in our collective memory. He wants to say that Cheiroz's Esça did not go, Queiroz's Esça is! It continues to be unique, recognized and very modern. Although deceased for 120 years, he has so far maintained the unanimous recognition of being one of the greatest novelists in the history of Portuguese literature. And time passed and Eça continued to be Eça, without anyone making it a shadow or causing the forgetfulness. His strong connection of birth to the Povoa of Varzim cannot be forgotten, because this feeling of belonging was assumed with pride by himself, in particular by the evidence of the famous expression contained in one of his correspondences exchanged with Pinheiro Chagas : «I am only a poor man of the Povoa of Varzim ». It was also the origin of the City Assembly of Póvoa de Varzim which was recently unanimously adopted a remarkable motion to support this initiative. Let us not also ignore that Eça de Queiroz is still buried today in a family hut in Santa Cruz do Douro, Baião municipality, location of the foundation of the Eça de Queiroz, in the House of Tormes, and that, legitimately, Baião claims Eça de Queiroz as part of his own history and immaterial heritage. to the bayians we will have to apologize for this bravery and understand the reluctance, but they help us to recognize and perpetuate the national and even international dimension of this unique figure of our history. Much has already been said about the man and the work that today provokes this debate, but let us only emphasize that the Cheiroz Island was not alone — and was not little — a single novelist. He was a consequent humanist in Cuba and an ironic bite and observer of the Portuguese, especially the powerful, leaders and politicians. Sometimes I feel I cross with some of your characters, although with different names and clothes, in this same Assembly. In addition, it has a professional course that has led it to different countries, realities and characters, which gives it a unique worldliness. Maybe because of all this it doesn't scare him to be such a read and so translated author. After this, of course, the PSD accompanies and subscribes this proposal, which, we believe, all together, be in the award of national Pantheão honours to the mortal remnants of José Maria de Eça de Queiroz, in recognition and honour for his literary work, even in the history of Portuguese literature, whether in the constitution of the working group in terms formulated in this project of the Socialist Party, which we greet. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u15	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita spoke by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP welcomes the proposal of honours of Pantheão Nacional in the year in which the 175 years of birth and the 120 years of death of one of the great Portuguese language and literature writers, José Maria de Eça de Queiroz. Poor of birth, Eça de Queiroz is buried in the home of the family, in Santa Cruz do Douro, in the municipality of Baião. And, in order to launch the challenge, the Eça de Queiroz Foundation, which we salute, proposed, then this year, to help promote all the necessary conditions to which the honours of Pantheon National were attributed to this writer. Thus, we can say that the transfer is supported by the Foundation, which considers it fair and defends itself in the best way to perpetuate the writer's memory, which is one of the most read Portuguese writers. In fact, the Foundation's President himself said: "At a time when reading indices, particularly among students, come down fearfully, I hope, perhaps naively, that an event like this alert for the wonderful discovery of reading". The PCP also expects it, because it is urgent to discover and rediscover the literature and the Portuguese writers and to encourage reading. This is also an opportunity to celebrate this aspect and point out this urgency. That's how we follow him. Eça participated in a transformational movement of literary and intellectual life, having been a true activist in this field, as in other fields of life, especially in the times of Generation of 70, that we speak so often here, who shook Coimbra and the rest of the country and who generated controversy with the so-called "Coimbrã Question". We like to point out this situation because it has had so many branches that still have an impact on our cultural life today. We also pointed out that, under the revolutionary impact of the Paris Commune, the wider group of the Cenacle came to program the famous Democratic Conferences, which were held at the Lisbon Casino, and some young people of this generation even joined the International. It was not only the case of Eça, but also of Antero and Battle. They were very agitated and very vivid times that we remember here. Unfortunately, the Government of Marquês de Ávila would eventually publish a portal that would ban the Conferences and close the Casino, despite a protest by the lecturers, who was also subscribed by Eça de Queiroz, having not stopped intervening at that time. It was indeed the owner of a capacity of fine irony and critical analysis of reality. He highlighted it on multiple occasions, not only in characters, scenarios and contexts he created, but also in other writings, such as in the Farpas. There is a very funny and very interesting excerpt that we would like to quote and that has to do with all these agitations. At some point, Eça writes: « Then I inquired about what the government really honored me with: Republican chief, club speaker, strike organizer, international agent, delegate of Karl Marx, representative of the working associations, complicit in the fires of Paris, former assassin of Monsignor Darboy, secret editor of the proclamations, fear of Pretole, finally, forced friend. Never as I have so far been horrified with dignity. A transhipment of occupations, a juncture of importance and, finally, I was always followed by a police officer." The excellence of the work of Eça de Queiroz was recognized by so many and deserves attention, among others, a comment, which we find very curious, of Camilo Castelo Branco, in the third version of the Crime of Padre Amaro, the second edition in book. It then says Camilo Castelo Branco : « It is a masterpiece that must resist as a bronze to all the destructive evolutions of school and fashion». We believe that this is the case and therefore we recognize the opportunity of this project in order to grant the honours of National Pantheon to José Maria de Eça de Queiroz. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u17	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I greet the family members and members of the Board of Directors of the Eça de Queiroz Foundation. There are numerous historical figures worthy of fame and recognition, but few receive unanimous acclaim. Esça de Queiroz is one of them. His clear and profound vision of the most varied situations of everyday life allowed him to bring, through his literary brilliantness, to the pages of his books, a characterization of the human being and society that is timeless. of his contemporaries to admirers born in the twentieth century and already in this century, Eça has touched and influenced all generations, demonstrating that the issues he addresses are timeless and inherent to the condition that accompanies each one of us—we are human. Esça de Queiroz was undoubtedly a visionary. He managed to anticipate some of the major problems and modifications of society that would influence the centuries to come. Let us look at the example of the novel The City and the Mountains and the story Civilization. in these, Eça narrates the life of a man, Jacinto, materialistic and consumerist, surrounded by the most sophisticated and recent technological and cultural innovations and with total access to culture. A model of civilized man, but also a paradigm of unhappiness, discouraged and bored, despite the excess in which he lived. A man uprooted from the soil and culture, who, in seeking happiness, undertakes a journey, both external and internal, of self-knowledge. In the greenhouse, in the Douro, near nature, far from comfort and scientific devices, then finds the happiness that civilization did not give it. Many of his contemporaries have learned to read through his books, as well as the generations that followed. With Eça, we also learned how to feel and think. From simple, fine, scholarly and incisive writing, with an ironic vision of the politicians and the ruling classes, capable of the intimate observation of human passions and contradictions, the legacy of Eça de Queiroz did not end with his death, it is immense the acquisition of the criticism of his work, are numerous editions and translations, adaptations to national and foreign cinema, or inclusion in secondary school programs. Eça has left us a universal and uninterrupted work of reading. Major writer, marked the Portuguese language, contributed to the expansion of Portuguese culture under the sign of a strong humanist character. In the year in which the 175 years of their birth and the 120 years of their death are marked, it is widely fair and consensual to propose the award of honours of National Pantheon. [[Greetings from PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u19	For an intervention, Mrs Alexandra Vieira of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u20	Mr. President, I begin by complimenting the families of Eça de Queiroz, the Eça de Queiroz Foundation and also the PS for the initiative to grant National Pantheon honor to writer Eça de Queiroz. The writer José Maria de Eça de Queiroz, the largest of Portuguese literature and with international projection at his time, was also journalist and consul, as well as an unconformed and tireless thinker. It is an example of what we can designate today as an activist, in the tireless path and as a pedagogical pendant to lead their readers to think, using their pen as a weapon, or as an implacable harp, as he would say, to customs and customs, but also to the bourgeois elite, where the political leaders and the members of the House were recruited, at a time when the period of regeneration and party rotivism lived in Portugal. Young and newly licensed in Law, in Coimbra, where he integrated the Generation of 70, with Antero de Quental and Ramalho Ortigão, through which realism is introduced, comes to live in Lisbon, where, as he says, Proudhon is brought under the arm. It is at this time that he writes, with Ramalho Ortigão, The Farpas, during the 1870s and 1871s, that constitute a record of Portuguese society in later years, ironic, caricature, critical and pedagogical. At the end of the 20th century, in Portugal, neoliberalism made its first advances. at that time, new chroniclers, we can say that in the path of Eça, they made the same ferocious criticism of habits and customs, this time disguised as new-richism, politically preponderant, inflated by the deep-lost money coming from a Europe for which Portugal had just entered. Meanwhile, a young history teacher read and discussed with her students passages from the chronicle dedicated to the House. It illustrates the weaknesses of party rotationism and allows, at the same time, the exercise of historical empathy and, from the past, to learn to read the present. Many decades have passed, here there are attempts to discredit democracy. What « Farpas » would write Eça, watching certain inflamed interventions in this same Chamber? Although the grief and voice of many denounce today's tentacular populist phenomenon, we need the irony of Eça to denounce the foolish ones, as I said, and show them to the people. Would this guy be a left man today? Well, he aimed at the transformation of a poor Portugal, illiterate, rural, pious, conservative, dominated by a small bourgeois elite, politically improvised, intriguing and aware of its interests. Esça de Queiroz is, until today, an incontrovertible author. Through his work, generations of young people learn, even today, the taste of literature and, above all, are challenged to think critically and question. of the importance of reading as a window for the world, as a key to its understanding, we all already know and this is the real work of education for citizenship and for democracy and interdisciplinaryness that must be done in schools. I conclude by saying that we follow the initiative of the PS, which gives continuity to the Foundation's desire, giving him honours of National Pantheon, with words of Eça :« Realism is the denial of art by art, it is the ban on conventional, emphatic and fold. It is the abolition of rhetoric considered as the art of promoting the concussion using the swelling of the period, the epilepsy of the word, the congestion of the troupes. It is the analysis with the tape in absolute truth(...). Realism is the anatomy of character. It's man's criticism. It is the art that paints us in our own eyes to know ourselves, so that we may know whether we are true or false, to condemn what is bad in our society." [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u21	Mr. José Luís Carneiro should have only 4 seconds, since he has greatly exceeded his time, but I am going to give him another 10 seconds, perching 14 seconds, to close this debate. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u22	Mr President, Eça de Queiroz, listening to us, watching us and observing us, will certainly not fail to take this gesture of greatness into account by the President of the Assembly of the Republic. [[PS and PSD rice.]] I would like to thank you, Mr President, for opening this process so that it could start in dialogue with all parliamentary groups. Today the Assembly of the Republic has set a great example of democratic maturity and service to the country. And, with the attitude that has been taken here today by all parliamentary groups, we are honoring not only one of the greatest pieces of literature and culture in our country but also the people and a region where Eça was inspired to write its novels. Esça de Queiroz, who had contact with the whole country, did not cease to translate to its literary creation its vision, its interpretation of development. As someone who accepted this responsibility for determination of the Eça de Queiroz Foundation and living the deep feeling of the meaning of this homage, having been able to live with the one who was the worker of the Eça de Queiroz Foundation, Maria da Graça Salema de Castro, with whom I could dialogue for hours, days and nights, during my life as a author, I wanted to thank the Members and Mrs. Members and, in particular, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, this political convergence in recognition and how we are doing justice. to his trinet, writer, who today is also beyond borders to represent in the cultural and literary plane our country, the greatest happiness and gratitude, the just thanks to the family. [[P.S. and PS.D. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u23	I would also like to thank the Eça de Queiroz Foundation, the family and, in particular, the trineto, present here, in fact, a long-present and huge future novelist, the support that was given for this session to be held. In conclusion, the assessment of the Resolution Project No. 800 / XIV / 2 is thus concluded. a ( PS ), we will move on to the joint discussion of Law Projects Nos 606 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Approves the legal regime of declassification of contracts or other documents which compromise the State or other entities within the budgetary perimeter in key sectors and 634 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Approves a legal regime for the transparency of contracts, agreements and other documents relating to operations determining the use or availability of public funds for entities belonging to strategic sectors. To present the PSD bill, Mr. Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This diploma we are now presenting is the diploma in the defence of taxpayers. Over many years, Portuguese have seen the use of public resources to solve the responsibilities of other entities, which has certainly been detrimental to better public services. And so many times the information that should legitimately be given to the Portuguese has never been. in this matter, the most recent cases of use of public money, as a relief, have highlighted the banking sector. Only in the New Bank, for example, since its resolution, are there more than EUR 6 billion in state money. Maybe one day they'll be returned by 2040. Other banks have had public support in the past and have reimbursed us, whether this is done. In addition to the banking sector, we could talk about the transport sector, with TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) to be profiled as the latest case of the need for public money injection. For TAP, at least EUR 1,7 billion is discussed in support of TAP in just two years. How much longer will it take? These sectors include energy, water or communications. Institutions linked to strategic sectors, when they are in a time of distress, are always assisted by the State. And, as a general rule, accountability or information to citizens always fails because it is scarce or non-existent. The taxpayers do not know the contracts signed, or whether the expectation of recovering these funds, always promised by public officials, is even realistic or will be just a promise for a television moment. to taxpayers everything is required, but very little is given to them in terms of accounting or on the rationality of the commitments that the State undertakes on their behalf. The PSD thus presents this bill for the approval of a legal regime that allows almost everything to be known by taxpayers when public money is used in key sectors. The aim is to safeguard the predominant right of taxpayers to information. We do not accept that smaller secret cabinets can exist, such as banking secrecy or commercial secrecy, if public money has been used—usually, as it has happened, in the amount of billions of euros. It is not possible to make it clear the existence of large debtors to these companies, for example, banks, which continue to live loose lives, and taxpayers are called to pay always, without having the right to know the methods of operations, the devaluation of assets, the negotiations made. Without a flood of private life, taxpayers have the right to know the relevant transactions of securities that have involved public money, above EUR 1 million — that is what we propose. Our proposal respects the secret of state and the secret of justice, which, in the weighting of interests, must prevail, in defence of the State itself, of security and our external relations. We therefore propose that this Parliament be able to declassify this information on the basis of the adoption of a resolution by the Assembly of the Republic. Parliament is the sovereign body elected by the people and, within the constitutional framework, should be called upon to open the doors of opacity in these sectors, when the use of public money is at issue. This scheme is not confused with that approved by Law No 15 / 2019 of 12 February, nor does it support the law on access to administrative information. It is a proper, innovative regime, that goes beyond those, and that keeps track, purpose, the desire for greater transparency in the management of the State. The PSD could not leave the presentation and we stayed to see that another party also decided to associate with this movement, replicating the PSD project. in this diploma, we also require that all these documents have a translated version for Portuguese. Approved by Parliament resolution, and safeguarding the minimum elements of data protection, anyone who dares to block such access may be punished for the crime of qualified disobedience. The PSD is, of course, prepared to listen to all relevant entities, so that, with the parties, we can continue to improve our proposal. A vote against this project is a vote against the transparency of the use of public money and the predominant right to information of taxpayers. Of course, we will vote in favour. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u25	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Between 2008 and 2019, interventions in the banking sector cost the country almost EUR 21 billion. Although these many millions mean a total cost of €1909 to each taxpayer, formalisms and legal blockades, linked to data protection or bank secrecy, have prevented citizens from accessing contracts and agreements that have framed the use of public money to save the bank or associated documents, such as audits or lists of large debtors. In some cases, particularly within the framework of the New Bank, the absurdity of this Parliament has been seen that it has been denied access without restriction to relevant information regarding these interventions, information that has ended up exposed in the media or even in blogs. With TAP, we have seen exactly the same problem: an intervention that will cost us in the coming years at least EUR 3, EUR 7 billion, i.e. 300 to each taxpayer. However, as in the bank, taxpayers do not have access to the TAP restructuring plan. These operations have an impact on the deficit, balance of accounts and budgetary options of successive governments. To save banks, or save TAP, we had to abdicate to invest in education, health and other areas and the result is in sight of everyone: schools needing works, without thermal comfort, and the SNS (National Health Service) to break through the seams. Secretism is not compatible with the public interest. Whoever pays has the right to know the invoice of what he pays. Parliament must respect: it is not acceptable for citizens to refuse access to certain documents, which are then printed without restriction in the media. Opacity cannot continue to be the way forward, and therefore the NAP today brings up a proposal for a legal regime of transparency for these documents. It is not a question of changing the rules of secrecy or secrecy laid down, but of creating a special regime that allows the Assembly of the Republic, in very specific and delimited cases, to deliberate, when it has thus understood and with an appropriate basis, to raise the secrecy or the secret which is imposed on certain documents, so that contributing citizens can know them. This proposal covers all documentation subject to secrecy, whether it relates to contracts or agreements establishing the use of public money, whether it relates to documents associated with it, such as audits. But it also covers the disclosure of lists of large debtors to the bank that have been responsible for losses of more than EUR 1 million. We do not want this regime to apply only to contracts concluded in the future, but to all relevant contracts since 2007, so that no information, considered as a secret to this point, will remain out of the way and nothing to be known. Finally, I leave a final note to say that the public disclosure of these documents for the NAP has been synonymous with maximum accessibility and, therefore, we present three very simple proposals to ensure it. First of all, we propose that all documents should be disclosed in Portuguese, depending on their translation costs to the target entity or to the Government. Secondly, we want the dissemination to be made as easily and as comprehensively as possible through the website of the Assembly of the Republic. Third and last, we believe that it is essential to ensure gross disclosure, that the right to information is fully ensured only if that information is also disclosed through a summary-summary of documents and the identification of public money values associated with this intervention. Access to information by citizens is a cross-cutting concern for all political forces. This regime responds to these concerns, so we have their approval, in general, and we are fully available to discuss improvements in the field of expertise. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u27	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr President asked me to pass on to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of what was decided today at the Conference of Leaders, and even before the Sumula or until it becomes available, Parliamentary leaders are asked to inform their Members of the rules to be observed, so that they come into force tomorrow and so that there are fewer Members in the plenary. Let us now proceed with the debate. For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u28	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: This liberal minute will resort to the metaphor of the used car. No one agrees to buy a used car without seeing it, without knowing the price, without knowing if it goes, without confirming that it serves for the family or business. It's not enough for the salesman to swear by foot together that the car is good and cheap, because nobody goes into that conversation. No one, of course, is not someone who looks like what the State thinks is the typical Portuguese taxpayer, because the typical Portuguese taxpayer knows he's paying, sees the tax money flying from his purse to the state safes, but doesn't know what he's paying, he doesn't know why he's paying, he doesn't know if there were better or cheaper alternatives. Ask her to trust you that the car is great and don't let her give you any kicks on the tires to check. Too many government contracts are secret or opaque, especially those of the sectors referred to in the bills under discussion, such as the financial sector, transport or energy sector. The possibility of the Assembly of the Republic to declassify these contracts therefore clearly brings benefits. Transparency encourages the State to use every cent with more discretion and guarantees the taxpayer, whose money is being spent, a possibility of scrutiny, by itself or by its legitimate representatives, of the acts and omissions of political decision-makers. In other words, people will be able to hold those who, out of incompetence or pity, waste their money. That is why some are disturbed by this initiative. People need to be able to know the conditions in which they're buying cars. Who says cars, says planes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u29	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The projects we are discussing today, one of the authorship of the PSD and another of the authorship of the NAP, basically come to propose a regime that allows the declassification of contracts that bring charges to the public record, that is, simplifying, that bring or may bring charges to all of us, for all taxpayers. First of all, it is good to be clear — and it is clear why these initiatives appear — that the rule, with regard to the commitments made by the State, should be that of transparency. The rule should be that contracts and commitments were known, only exceptionally should there be the classification of documents. Now, as we all realize, especially those who have experience in contracts and bank-related documents, both for the government and for some instances such as the Banco de Portugal, in doubt, are all classified. This also leads to the need for legislation to allow Parliament and, above all, the citizens in general, because they are responsible for it, to have access to the commitments that are being made. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a regime which is a legal regime for declassification of commitments and contracts, but this does not exhaust the discussion from a political point of view. The banking issue, particularly the issue of the New Bank, has raised more doubts, but unfortunately it is far from the only one. Therefore, I would like to recall that when a part of the New Bank was sold to Lone Star, the government said: « They will not be charged, direct or indirect, to the State ». Therefore, to believe in what the government was saying, this contract with Lone Star would not even have to be declassified in the light of this legislation. Unfortunately, we already realized that this was not the case. Obviously, we will vote in favour of the proposals under discussion, without prejudice to amendments in the field of specialty, but I would like to say that, more than the legal issue, it is important to take consequences from the political issue, because the state's commitments are to be fulfilled, but they are, first and foremost, to take on. In Portugal, the same Government and the same Prime Minister now say that there is no commitment and there is no direct or indirect burden on the public record, now they say they are outraged because the commitments are to comply and the state only has to pay to Lone Star and now they do not ask questions or want to know contracts. This is the basic political issue that must also be discussed. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the projects, hoping that some issues can be resolved in the field of specialty, because we have to take care of some, i.e. we do not want to fail the companies because they put their whole life naked. This is certainly not the intention of the authors of the initiatives. As far as it depends on us, these projects go down to the specialty, so that we can have a regime of declassification of these contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u31	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u32	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: After we have appreciated the draft laws presented here, either the PSD or the PAN, which is practically the same, I meant that we agree with the principle that is underlying them and it seems to us, indeed, to be estimable. We put the question not so much from the taxpayer's narrow perspective, as was put by the proponents, but from the citizen's point of view, because it is a right of citizenship that citizens can have access to the way in which public resources are used, particularly as public resources are used for the benefit of individuals, i.e., as we know, for the benefit of very special taxpayers, who are the ones who have the means to, by various ways of tax planning or tax engineering, as they wish — or even because of the possibilities open by tax arbitration — be the ones who gain and pay less on the contribution to public resources. Therefore, we agree with everything that will provide transparency for the use of public money. In fact, this is in line with a principle enshrined in the Portuguese Constitution since 1989 and the legislation since 1993, which is the principle of citizens'access to administrative documents, save exceptions to the secret of state, the secret of justice, that is, when there is special legislation that protects certain documents to safeguard essential constitutional values. The principle of open administration is one that is expensive to us, but what we think is that the solutions that are presented here will have to be carefully seen in the field of specialty. I would like to point out some aspects which seem to us that are technically less correct in these legislative initiatives, from the very point of view of declassification. He wants us to think that's not what's at stake. In other words, declassification belongs to those who classify, that is, those who have the powers to classify documents, have the power to declassify them. Therefore, the entities that have public documents in their custody, of the public sector, will have the power to declassify, in fact, it is on this basis that the regime of the State secret is based. But the question is not that, the question is not to give declassification powers, because the Assembly of the Republic has classified nothing, which it is important to safeguard is the right of access by the Assembly of the Republic to these documents. They are documents that are not in the possession of the Assembly of the Republic, but to which the Assembly, as a representative of the citizens, must have the right to access if it decides to do so. And there we want to feel that the use of the figure in the resolution would be here. In other words, the Assembly of the Republic has every right to resolve that it wants access to certain documents. Why? Because the law we're going to pass allows it. That is the legal authority which will allow the Assembly of the Republic to decide whether to have access to documents. It is not about declassification, it is about exercising a right of access which the legislation will confer on it. On the other hand, it makes no sense to say that the Assembly of the Republic decides by simple majority, because in all situations where the Constitution does not require a qualified majority or an absolute majority, there is no other way of deciding that this is not what we normally call the simple majority and that the Constitution designates by decision the plurality of votes. And so it is not necessary to say that, because the regime really has to be that one, it cannot be another. On the other hand, there is an issue that deserves care, which is the question of retroactivity. As you know, the retroactivity of laws is an exceptional principle, which also obeys constitutional requirements and has to see how far retroactivity goes. Is it until the 19th century? Does it go until the 1950s of the 20th century? Or is it tailor-made? And it's not good that it's tailor-made, so that we don't get into that eternal discussion...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u33	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u34	I shall conclude, Madam President. He spoke in that eternal discussion that is the PSD saying that it should declassify what was done by the PS and the PS saying that it should declassify what was done in the PSD. As the debate should not be that, we must find here a clean way to be effective from the entry into force of the production of effects by this legislation. We will make it possible, but we think that, from the point of view of specialty, there are important works to be done here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u35	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « The secret is the soul of business», say, especially if this business involves loans of favor, money laundering, illicit enrichment, power games, corruption, tax evasion. In Portugal, as in the world, the principle of professional secret, banking secret, business secret has always surpassed the principle of transparency, the redistribution of wealth and even public interest. And we're not just talking here about the state or business that involves the state and the private ones, we're also talking about private business. We understand that the secret can never be opposed to the public interest and therefore we always seek to limit it consistently and always defend the disclosure of audits, contracts, information about debtors, secret reports. That has always been our position and position in the public debate. The Assembly of the Republic must not depend on parliamentary committees of inquiry in order to access documents of interest to all. And here I would say more: the question is not just to access documents, it is to be able to divulge them, make them public. This is because, then, the case of the Assembly of the Republic is left in the arms with hundreds of documents and cannot disclose them and there cannot be the necessary scrutiny of these documents. This obligation of disclosure in the name of the public interest applies, of course, firstly to the State and it is in the State that the lack of data and the lack of statistics and transparency is shocking. From data on the use of tax benefits, simple budget execution data and, for example, tax expenditure, but also tax data on certain taxes, up to the raising of buildings or the number of state workers per income step, we have no information to make the public debate. And it becomes more serious when it comes to relationships with the private. I can give you some examples of documents we have already requested and we have not received: ANA privatisation contracts ( Airports de Portuga, SA ), TAP, REN ( Energy Networks of Portugal ) and EDP ( Energys of Portugal ), made by the PSD and the CDS, to which we have never had access ; New Bank sales contracts were delivered to the Assembly of the Republic with a confidentiality clause and therefore cannot be disclosed ; contracts for extension of dam concessions at the time of the government of José Socrates were not published, they were not known. All of this prevents a public debate on the state's big business. And it's not just when the State is helping private companies, it's business of millions of profits to private companies. There must be no relief, it is enough to sell public resources that are of interest to everyone and therefore everyone should have access to the conditions under which the sale of such public resources happened. Why are these contracts secret? Is it a secret to protecting taxpayers? I don't think so! Is it a secret to protecting the state? I don't think so either. It seems to me that it is a secret to protect the ministers and the rulers who have done so, and also the private companies, who profit from these contracts and therefore cannot accept them. In addition to privatization contracts and private contracts, there are other concerns that we have in relation, for example, to legal advisory services that do not go to the public procurement database and on which there is no information from the State ; orders by which the Assembly of the Republic fights to have access, but that the Government, in particular the dispatch which has now approved the sale of the EDP dams to Engie. But also private business involving State goods, as is the case with the sale of the six Miranda Douro dams from EDP to Engie. It is a business between private parties, but in which it is concerned not only a possible tax evasion, but also the granting of a public good. Should we or should we not have access to this contract? And so I conclude by saying that we will follow this proposal, it is in everything that we always defend, we think that it can go further, not only within its scope, but also in the form of dissemination. We believe that it must not necessarily depend on approval in the Assembly of the Republic, but it must be a mandatory principle. There are contracts that should, by default, be public in the name of transparency. We will certainly have this debate in the field. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u37	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to this subject, I would like to begin by making a reference which is that which the Socialist Party is reviewing and is in accordance with the principle of transparency and open administration. It is from this point of departure that we have begun this same debate. The open administration and the knowledge of all state commitments cannot be built on the basis of putting into practice in our own organs and in our constitutional legal system — it is also important to mention this. Therefore, transparency cannot be evoked to be a way for any political marketing, rather than being effectively transparent — we also need to be aware of this. Without prejudice to a discussion that we will certainly have to have on this subject and if we are in accordance with the principles, it is important to focus on how we treat them, how we respect them and how we find solutions. In fact, there have already been some criticisms that have been made about which the Socialist Party has no regret to follow, since it even looks at them. However, there is also a note that it is important to highlight: the diplomas, as they have been presented, do not question, do not question, do not even criticise the regime that we have in place, which is the regime of Decree-Law No 26/2006, which refers to a set of mechanisms that relate to transparency. I therefore think that there is a distorted approach here when it comes to declassification, which is the following: the Assembly of the Republic cannot classify or declassify, the Assembly of the Republic must, yes, know, exercise its supervisory mandate and it is in this framework of transparency before the citizens we place ourselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u39	How do you vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u40	That is why, by maintaining the matter in terms of which it is, there would be a notorious conflict between the proposal that is put forward and the whole regime that we have in our legal system on transparency and access to public documents. In fact, this regime also stems from the importation into domestic law of a set of European standards and directives and also of data protection and that we, in some way—I think that this is not in the genesis and thinking of the proponents—we cannot simply implode and play through the window out of a seat, because these are also the basic principles of the rule of law that transparency does not question, rather, strengthen. Therefore, these projects, as I said, settle in a notorious confusion of concepts and we will certainly have to have the need to review and put them in the right place. Making administrative documents accessible today is a fact, but I also recognize that we have a system in which sometimes—and it doesn't cost me much to say that—or by the way of CNPD, the National Data Protection Commission, or by the way of LADA (the Access to Administrative Documents Act), we encounter difficulties. It would be, perhaps, better — and a thought to have, why not? — like many European countries, we have a system that groups, within the framework of data protection and also in the transparency regime itself, a single entity that can make this verification, this classification, this declassification and ensure effective access to documents. It is a path that I leave to reflection and that can and should, in my perspective, be considered in our debate. The Assembly of the Republic, approving what is here, would now be challenging its parliamentary function and would clearly be entering into what would be an administrative function. I draw attention to the fact that we have already had — and until recently in 2019 — a mechanism that we have approved, which has already been mentioned here today, and which allows us to have access to a set of documentation and information, in particular on the banking system, which is one of the motivations of the policymakers. But then there are questions that arise, for example: is the banking system important for the PSD? I don't agree. What about the health system? You don't want to know about health contracts? Or are these not part of your concerns? Or is it such a expensive system, but so expensive, that it deserves secrecy for the PSD?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u41	We vote for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u42	The contradictions of these diplomas are clear, which must also be mentioned. As for the NAP project, I would also like you to tell me, if possible, why 14 years back? Why not one, why not five? If Mr. André Silva can explain why 14 years ago, I would like to understand. In fact, this is part of another question of retroactivity, with which I think we must also be very careful, because we cannot call into question a set of commitments, without prejudice, until...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u44	I do not want to discuss whether the confidentiality measures that may be in these contracts are correct or not, but we have a legal order that we must respect. So it is in this general framework of concern about the transparency that the Socialist Party will put on...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u45	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u46	I shall now conclude, Madam President. And therefore, with regard to these projects, I repeat the same statement with which I began: transparency and open administration are very valuable principles for the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u47	For the closure of this debate, Mr Carneiro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to thank all the speeches, I think they were very useful and some even gave suggestions and proposals, which I thank, and which, indeed, if this project is approved in general, we will consider the specialty. Of course, the project we bring here today has no solutions closed at all, it is a starting point for the discussion in the specialty, as it happens in general. Therefore, on enlargement to other sectors, such as health, which has been mentioned here, we can equal it, I do not take it as closed. None of us will take that as a closed one. What I am concerned about is that, indeed, citizens/ taxpayers, since there are taxpayers who are not necessarily Portuguese citizens, but who also contribute to the State with the payment of their taxes, so they must be able to access some of this information. That's what we propose. Our solution clearly states that, from the moment of this declassification, you can have the right to access to information. It is a matter of terminology or legal technique, to which I see no objection. But from the moment this happens, this information becomes public domain, without any restriction, taking away the restrictions arising from the secret of state, the secret of justice or data protection, which must be imposed here. There is, however, a conclusion that I draw from this debate: there is a broad consensus in this Parliament that we should move forward with a solution and that is not an administrative solution, it is not a solution that distorts the legal framework that exists today, precisely because the existing legal framework is a very deterministic framework, in relation to certain situations. But the situation I have referred to is not planned anywhere, and we definitely want to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u50	This, of course, for us: there is a consensus. So we challenged the PS — which seemed to us to have been the most hesitant party, but I did not understand exactly the position — to join us, in the specialty, to improve the bills that are on the table. It will gain transparency, win democracy, win citizens. We are talking about the use of public money and therefore everyone should be able to know how to use it or how to compromise it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u51	Mrs. Members, we have concluded this debate, so we move on to the next point in our agenda, point 3, which is that of the joint assessment, in general, of Bills Nos 571 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extends the protection granted by the social benefit for inclusion ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017 of 6 October ), 545 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Improves the conditions of access of persons with disabilities to social benefits for inclusion, 623 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Improvement of conditions for access to social benefits for inclusion and increase of the value of accumulation of the basic component with labour income ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017 of 6 October) and 629 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Increased basic component of social benefit for inclusion. To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is an action programme for the inclusion of persons with disabilities in society, this programme can only be the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, adopted in 2006, and ratified by Portugal in 2009. Inclusion means recognition of rights ownership and non-resignation with any forms of assistance. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities states that « States Parties recognise the right of persons with disabilities to social protection and the enjoyment of that right without discrimination on the basis of disability and shall take appropriate measures to safeguard and promote the exercise of this right ». Social benefit for inclusion ( PSI ), created in 2017, is the inclusion policy instrument that best materializes this recognition to which Portugal is internationally obliged. In fact, social benefits for inclusion are based on a philosophy that departs from an assistanceist approach and is based on a perspective to guarantee the effectiveness of these people's rights, which is realized in the public coverage of the expenses with which disability is borne by people with disabilities and in the fight against poverty that is driven by disability. But the social benefit regime for inclusion has shown imperfections and inadequacies that must be filled, in order to fully achieve those objectives, and I refer to three. The Left Block, in line with the observations of the national mechanism for monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, rightly identified this set of essential changes with a view to improving and greater justice and effectiveness of what is such an important social benefit. Thus, firstly, it is necessary to respond with justice and good sense to the huge number of situations of people excluded from access to social benefits for inclusion, due to strict application of the legal requirements in force on the percentages of the National Table of Incapacitys, but whose disability generates aggravated dependence. It is this answer of justice and common sense that this bill seeks to extend, exceptionally, access to social benefits for inclusion to persons with disabilities less than 60 %, but who are likely to be in a situation of particular disability or dependence. Secondly, a fair and sensible response is also required for so many people to whom the current law denies access to the PSI, because they acquired their disability after 55 years, without it being the result of natural aging processes. It is this answer of justice and common sense that this project seeks to accept in the law, including in the benefit of the PSI who acquires disability or disability after 55 years of age and which clearly does not result from degenerative processes associated with normal aging. Finally, the left block bill expands the limit of the accumulation of social benefit for inclusion with labour income, making it correspond to the sum of the national minimum guaranteed income, at its annual value, with the annual reference value of the basic component of the PSI. This is an amendment which assumes the nature of the basic component of this benefit, because it is a public coverage of the increased expenditure caused by disability, preventing such expenditure from discriminatingly paying labour income. We are convinced that in this way the social benefit is provided for the inclusion of a more just and more faithful regime to its philosophy. In the special debate we will welcome the amendments which reinforce this purpose. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u53	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the creation of the social benefit for inclusion that the CFP has argued that this provision can never mean less social protection for people with disabilities and that this provision can and should be an instrument and opportunity to improve and deepen social protection. At various times, the CFP has intervened on the need to carry out a process of revision and strengthening social protection in disability, and in other situations of disability, aiming at the adoption of criteria of justice in the allocation of social benefits to compensate for the specific charges and needs arising from disability situations. We know that the creation of a single benefit in this area corresponds to an ancient claim of organizations representing people with disabilities, but it is also important that this provision means effective social protection for these people. And, therefore, we have argued that the scope of this should be wider and more significant and we have put forward several proposals in this regard. Today, we do it again. We have stated that the way in which ISP was designed, in particular with regard to the age of 55 for the recognition of disability, excludes many people with disabilities from access to this social benefit. And for this reason, in this initiative, we propose that the PSI can be attributed to those who acquire disability or disability after 55 years of age, when it proves not to result from common degenerative processes or associated with normal aging. But we also propose a strengthening of the social benefit for inclusion, with its payment in 14 months, even considering that this benefit replaced others who had this payment mode. This provision for persons with disabilities of 60 % or more (and more favourably persons with disabilities or disabilities of more than 80 %) ends up leaving out situations where, by not reaching 60 % of disability, people may experience obstacles equal to or equal to those of the situations already covered by the law. We therefore argue that, in exceptional and duly substantiated cases, and in accordance with a favourable opinion of the INR ( National Institute for Rehabilitation ), the right to this benefit may be recognised to beneficiaries who, having a degree of disability of less than 60 %, are also in a particularly disabling situation. The need to strengthen the social protection of people with disabilities is of particular importance and urgency at the moment we live. We also understand that the strengthening of social benefits for inclusion should be accompanied by other measures that guarantee employment with rights and vocational training corresponding to the acquisition of knowledge, skills and skills for inclusion in active life. Access to employment with rights is one of the fundamental factors for people with disabilities to build an autonomous and independent life, allowing them to strengthen their right to social security. Without prejudice to an extended set of cross-sectional measures that must be taken and implemented, and with which the CFP continues to be committed, social protection, and access to it, by people with disabilities can pave the way for better living conditions for these people and their families, especially considering situations of great vulnerability to which they are subject and knowing that this is one of the social groups most affected by poverty and social exclusion. Today, we leave a contribution to deepen the social protection of people with disabilities by improving the social provision for inclusion, extending its scope, strengthening its values and improving the conditions of allocation. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u55	To present the CDS-PP bill, Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The way in which disabled people are integrated into a society and the way in which social benefits are allocated in this sense is clearly a way of assessing the level of development of this society and also the level of development of the social mechanisms that the State has at its disposal. As far as social benefits for inclusion are concerned, from the outset we have pointed out some shortcomings that should be corrected. We did so not only at that time, when it was created, but also in proposals we presented successively so that these matters could be evaluated and corrected. We are essentially talking about two issues, the first of which has to do with discrimination based on age. As has already been said, the fact that only those who, by meeting the requirements, present the requirement up to 55 years of age can be allowed to have access to this benefit, although they can see this benefit already after they have completed this age, from our point of view, and not only from our own, but from all those who are concerned about this matter and with the inclusion of people with disabilities, introduce an unacceptable factor of discrimination. It is true that issues of the degenerative process and of natural aging should be considered. But what cannot be assumed is that, from the age of 55, everyone who actually has a certain level of disability, in the case of 60 % or more, owes it to the common aging process or to the natural degenerative process. Obviously, this is totally unacceptable, much more so when life expectancy evolves, fortunately, in a positive sense, people live longer and the age of 55 does not make any sense as a limitation, although we understand that it should not make sense the age of 55 or any other age. The State may not exclude citizens from the right to submit their request and, of course, it must consider the particular circumstances of each person and not establish general criteria which, at the outset, exclude a significant percentage of people from this possibility of support. Therefore, we understand that age limitation should be eliminated. Then there is the question of the amount of the benefit. It does not make sense to have a law that says that the benefit can be accrued with the guaranteed minimum wage, with the minimum wage, and then to establish, annually, as has already happened this year, a maximum value which is lower than the basic amount of the benefit and the guaranteed minimum remuneration. In other words, the State ends up frustrating what is the legislative command that is in force and this is also unacceptable. If the State does not comply with it, it is up to us to change the law in order to impose that, of course, anyone who, having a situation of disability and still wants to work, and work, should not be harmed by doing so, without failing to receive the amount of social benefit to which he has full right to be working. This would be an incentive exactly contrary to that which must exist in a developed society, as I said at the outset, which values the inclusion of people with disabilities. The ideal is exactly how we can assign a benefit due to this disability, but we also achieve the inclusion of the person and, if it can work, even better. As I said at the outset, how we change this legislation and how we improve social benefits for inclusion will tell a lot about how we treat people with disabilities and how we can include them in our society.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u57	To present the NAP project, you have the floor of Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we recall that the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities begins by defining that « States Parties recognise the right of persons with disabilities to social protection and to the enjoyment of that right without discrimination on the basis of disability and will take appropriate measures to safeguard and promote the exercise of this right ». However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, disabled people and their families live a very different reality daily, discussing numerous and unthinkable obstacles, difficulties of a different nature and with significant costs resulting from their condition, whether financial or health. The protection of people with disabilities must therefore be a priority and require of us integrated and transversal measures, which guarantee the construction of an autonomous and independent life, but also prevent it from falling into a situation of poverty or vulnerability and social exclusion. People with disabilities are also exposed to greater risk and social vulnerability, so all measures to combat exclusion and poverty must be guarded by the State. We cannot ignore that the risk of poverty or social exclusion of these people is higher than in people with disabilities or with some sort of disability. And in Portugal the gap in inequality is more serious than in the average of the other European countries. Particularly worrying are also disability situations, for example in women or among the older population, which are so often the target of multiple forms of discrimination. It is therefore essential that all these people have access to social protection and poverty reduction programmes. Social benefit for inclusion, which brings us here today, is a benefit intended to support citizens with disabilities of which a degree of incapacity equal to or greater than 60% results and is essential to degrade the living conditions of these people, in the face of the constraints and burdens resulting from the incapacitating situation they experience. It is a benefit which, in essence, aims at minimizing the risk of poverty, combating social exclusion and promoting autonomy. Members, that the current maximum value of the base component, 275 € monthly, is more than very low, this value is absolutely unworthy. It is for this reason that the NAP brings the present proposal today, so that the value of this benefit is indexed to 1, 15 of the IAS (indicating social support), a measure that can make the difference so that this benefit is not below the poverty threshold. On the other hand, we note that many people, whose disability was acquired before the age of 55, did not possess or have to date required the medical certificate of multi-use disability, which is currently required to obtain this benefit, so they are not covered by it by creating a situation of injustice. In our view, this situation is indeed a serious injustice that results from the repeated indifference of requests for disability certification prior to the age of 55. We therefore consider that all the mechanisms necessary for the rapid assessment and the appropriate allocation of the degree of disability should be guaranteed, making it possible for the benefit to be provided there. The NAP also follows the proposals presented here by the other political forces, insofar as we believe they want to improve and extend support for people with disabilities in Portugal as well. We defend that it is important to implement measures of greater social protection to people with disabilities and we understand that one of the ways to achieve this is by improving social provision for inclusion, not only reinforcing its values, as improving the conditions of its allocation. Only through this path can we begin to build a more dignified life and work together so that these people do not suffer material deprivation or do not fall into poverty, just as they are not excluded from that which must be a full life and in the enjoyment of all their rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u59	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A full and supportive society is the one that includes all people. In fact, in the last two decades, we have made significant progress in the integration of people with disabilities, but we must recognize that we still have a long way to go in their autonomy and social protection, inclusive education, the transition from school to the active life of young people with limitations of physical, motor or cognitive abilities and, among other things, in integration into the labour market. At this level, we are concerned about the reduction in employment rates for people with disabilities and the increase in the number of unemployed, making the rates of risk of poverty or social exclusion in this social group in Portugal clearly higher than the average values of the European Union. We are also concerned that the State itself does not meet the goals that it imposes on itself in the employment of this population.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u62	This afternoon, four bills are under discussion to strengthen the scope of social inclusion. By not putting into question the kindness that is on the basis of these initiatives, we must also not lose sight of the necessary balance of certain measures which the capacity of social security is currently under severe pressure, particularly financial pressure. Moreover, when we do not have estimates regarding the universe of potential beneficiaries. On the other hand, we must have some weight and good sense, particularly in the chronology of the proposed measures which we want to put into practice. Now, the matter of the bills currently under consideration ended up being rejected by the Assembly of the Republic in the discussion and vote of the State budget for 2021. In addition, we must remember that Ordinance No 5 / 2021 of 6 January, updated the annual reference value of the basic social benefit component for inclusion and the annual maximum accumulation limit of the basic component with labour incomes. In addition, a new legislative amendment with increased expenditure would have practical effects only next year, with the new State budget. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government has written in its Programme that the protection of persons with disabilities is a priority and a national design. The Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities announced in November 2020 that the study on early retirement for persons with disabilities was being worked and that by the end of the year it would reach the representative organisations of these citizens. On the same occasion, the Secretary of State also stated that during December a meeting of the National Council for Solidarity and Social Security Policies was planned and that the preliminary study on early reform of disabled people would be presented. The year 2020 has already ended and neither has this study, nor any proposal, in this context, been presented to us. Nothing that surprises us, in a prodigy government, to announce and to announce again, and that invariably does not meet or delay to carry out and operate. For PSD, it is essential that this study know the light of the day. For this reason, the Social Democratic Party submitted draft resolution No. 844 which encourages the Government to present urgently the study on the definition of conditions for access to early retirement for people with disabilities. Moreover, the PSD intends that the study effectively consists of the various scenarios, the various combinations of variables, as well as the financial quantification of the multiple possibilities. The Government and the Socialist Party are failing the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u63	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Green Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the discussion on this important subject concerning the need to improve the conditions of access of people with disabilities to social benefits for inclusion, Greens begin by saying that, as we did at the time of their debate and implementation, we consider the creation of social benefits a measure of greatest importance. In our view, this social benefit for inclusion, which we greatly value, represents a measure or instrument that, in addition to constituting an old claim of representative organisations of people with disabilities, seeks to meet the objectives set out in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, a Convention that our country has signed and that is linked to it. It happens that despite its importance, this provision presents some weaknesses and inadequacies that arise, in particular from two factors: on the one hand, the fact that only people with disabilities are 60 % or more, excluding a considerable universe of situations, where disability is less than 60 %, represents obstacles similar to the senses of people with 60 % disability. And, on the other hand, by establishing the maximum age of 55 years for the recognition of disability, it leaves out of its access a universe of people with even greater disabilities. Moreover, when the social benefit for inclusion was created, the National Mechanism for Monitoring the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities itself pointed out some repairs, and it also suggested to the Government a set of recommendations that went, inter alia, to remove the restrictions on access to the provision, due to the age or degree of disability attested, under the penalty of being potentiating factors of inequality, when the objective is exactly the opposite. However, if this provision also has in its objectives support for people with disabilities in poverty, the National Mechanism for Monitoring the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities also draws attention to the need to establish a different value for people with disabilities, considering the increased costs resulting from this poverty situation. In addition, it is important to remember that our Constitution entrusts the State with the responsibility to carry out a national policy for the prevention, treatment, rehabilitation and integration of persons with disabilities, as well as support for their families, and that the State should assume the responsibility for the effective realization of their rights. And therefore, despite the importance that the Greens attach to social benefits for inclusion, we believe that adjustments to the problems that I have just identified are necessary and we will vote in favour of the proposals that we see can give these same answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u65	For an intervention, Mrs Marta Freitas of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are debating bills on social benefits for inclusion and, first of all, it is important to remember that this benefit was a measure that was created by the Government of the Socialist Party in 2017. The Government has carried out the stages envisaged in its implementation, according to Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017 of 6 October, thus enabling support for people with disabilities and responding to disability charges. Thus, the creation of this social benefit enabled former beneficiaries to be included in the monthly life support and disability pension, and to extend social protection coverage to new beneficiaries. Thus, it was found that the PSI allowed an increase of 25 % to 34 % of support granted in relation to the life support monthly, in addition to allowing social protection coverage to new beneficiaries, who so far had no social protection. Today, the PSI has more than 110 000 beneficiaries, thus enabling people with disabilities or with a degree of disability equal to or greater than 60 % to have support in view of their condition, to respond to financial constraints resulting from disability and to achieve their autonomy and social inclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u67	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u68	It has been a priority for the Socialist Party to reformulate social benefits for people with disabilities and to develop a model for a single benefit that would respond in a simpler and more effective way to the social benefits framework in the area of disability. The PSI is currently the only non-contributory benefit that allows direct income to beneficiaries independent of the condition of poverty. The Socialist Party has made progress in more modern and inclusive social benefits and are examples of the PSI, the social complement for the elderly or even the guaranteed minimum income, the current RSI (social income of insertion). It wasn't the CDS, it wasn't the PSD, it wasn't the PSP...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u69	PSP didn't go!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u70	... nor was it the Left Block, nor any other political party...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u71	It was the GNR!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u72	... it was the Socialist Party that introduced these social support so that no one would stay behind, in a citizenship perspective. The truth is unique: it remains a desire of the Government of the Socialist Party to work continuously on the social provision of inclusion, which proved to be a lever against inactivity, being possible to reconcile it with work activity, which was not previously possible, as well as the full participation of the disabled person in society, to the extent of his abilities, and without fail to protect situations of deep disability. With the latest update, the average monthly value of the basic component of the PSI corresponds to about €275, and the basic and complementary component can now reach the €768, corresponding to effective increases of 25 % to 34 % in relation to the monthly life support, in addition to increases that have been verified in disability bonus and third-person assistance allowance. As regards the proposals which are being put here by the proposers, I stress the following: it is important to reflect on the fact that we do not call into question the PSI itself, overburdening it, in the amendments to the general conditions for the allocation of the benefit. when introducing issues that may not be related to the disability itself, resources can be channelled to those who have a disability that may arise from the degenerative processes associated with aging and not only to people with disabilities, who are the people to whom the PSI is intended. It seems to us that what they propose here, in many cases, can be difficult to assess and certainly prove. This is so difficult to assess and prove that the bidders themselves have just expanded this universe of beneficiaries of the PSI, but they refer the difficult task to the government, so that this regulation makes what is difficult or impossible to do, technically and legally, without the expert's understanding on this matter. As far as the amendment to the threshold for the accumulation of the basic component is concerned, there is no evidence of the accounting of the universe of persons who may be covered and the budgetary impact which these amendments may have.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u73	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u74	As I said earlier, the Socialist Party has a whole legacy of social status and social protection measures. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group understands the nature of the proposed measures or claims, but it is found that what is proposed breaks a criterion which has so far been followed with regard to the indexation of social benefits to the IAS. This, then, requires a more careful assessment to ensure that these measures are currently responsible and enforceable. Thus, the Socialist Party recognises that, in relation to the PSI, this matter is not closed and sealed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u75	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u76	I'm finishing up, Madam President. But it is premature to make a change and adjustments to a benefit that is still finalizing its implementation. Having said this, we will be available to make a reassessment, adaptation and evolution, above all, solid of the PSI, at the end of this phase. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u77	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I specifically address Members Carla Madureira, PSD, and Marta Freitas, PS, after the last two speeches we heard in plenary. Mrs Carla Madureira, from the PSD, would like to remind you that she invoked the State Budget, but this was a situation that could have been resolved in this State Budget that we have just discussed, if they had not, the PSD and PS, voted against the proposal presented by the CFP to strengthen and extend the social benefit for inclusion. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u79	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u80	Therefore, speaking of the State budget now is only effectively putting on the PSD's lack of political will to contribute to resolving this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u81	You're misinformed!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u82	Mrs Marta Freitas, let me remind you of the following: although there is a very positive path in the realization of your rights, done over several years, people with disabilities in our country continue to have a day-to-day period marked by denial of rights. There is a denial of the right to education, the right to work and the right to employment with rights, which, in fact, makes a significant part of the beneficiaries of social benefit for inclusion effectively receive only the €275, which is the basic value of this benefit. We continue to have a reality in which disabled people continue to see the right to mobility, the right to transport, the right to health denied.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u83	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u84	Madam President, even to conclude, I would like to say that these people continue to have tremendous difficulties in accessing support products. It is this reality that affects disabled people and their families that we are talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u85	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u86	We have an opportunity to take a step that will resolve and that will help to strengthen the social protection of a group that is in tremendous fragility right now. What matters is whether the PS really wants to make that contribution right now. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u87	To close this debate, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it was clear, in this brief debate, that there are choices here, for which we have been challenged by the various political forces, to make. I also believe that the position of the PSD and, above all, of the Socialist Party, more specifically in the speech of Mrs Marta Freitas, when she used the expression that she said the PSI was not closed and sealed, but, in fact, it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u89	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u90	So basically what the honourable Member has come to say was this, in addition to, of course, having made a long panegiric of her own party, saying that « the legacy is ours», that « we are, we are». Of course, Mrs Deputy, she doesn't want any contagions and I think that's perfectly natural.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u91	You know the history of the PSI, Mrs. Member, very badly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u92	Mrs. Marta Freitas, let's see if we understand each other. What is at stake, essentially, as I said—and well—is not to question the PSI. What is the way we don't have to question the PSI? By correcting the mistakes that are currently in practice and by providing their regime with greater justice and good sense. That's what I tried to say, up there. This leads to three choices. First of all, should we or should not, in the law, establish the possibility of persons whose disability is less than 60 %, but where it creates an extremely serious degree of dependence, have access to the PSI? at this moment, this is not possible and we must choose to do so, so that this is possible. Secondly, should you or should you not be able to access the PSI who has a disability after 55 years of age? Why is there to be this criterion? There is no reason for this to be the criterion! Thirdly, should people who take up the basic component of the PSI and work be harmed by the fact that they work, as Mr João Almeida said very well, recently? Should we be harmed? from our point of view, no. There is no reason for it to be so, on the contrary, that would be an injustice. Now, to insist on these three mistakes is to call into question the PSI, that is, that is what Mrs Deputies does not want and does very well! I am therefore convinced that tomorrow it will vote in favour of the proposals which are precisely aimed at strengthening and not allowing the PSI to be called into question. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u93	We have now reached the end of our debate and the agenda. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will now read the usual information.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. I would like to inform you that you have entered the Bureau and have been admitted to a number of legislative initiatives. I refer, first, to Resolution Projects Nos. 851 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 852 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 853 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 9. the Commission, 854 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 855 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 856 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission. I also announce Law Projects Nos 639 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 642 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, and 643 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 10. the Commission. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall also take note of the presences in this plenary session, via videoconferencing, of the following Members. elected by the electoral circle of Madeira : Sara Madruga da Costa and Sérgio Marques, of the PSD Parliamentary Group. In prophylactic isolation and accompanying the session, Mr Norberto Patinho of the PS Parliamentary Group was also present by videoconferencing. Mr André Coelho Lima and José Silvano of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-14.u95	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. We need to announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, which will start at 10 a.m. of point 1 is the discussion of the draft resolution No 839 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — By complying with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 201 / 2019, in order to prepare a study on how the benefits contained in Law No 3 / 2009 of 13 January could be attributed to former local recruiters without contributing career records. Point 2 consists of the general discussion of Law Projects No. 181 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Regulates the lobbying activity and establishes a register of transparency and a mechanism of legislative footprint ( makes the first amendment to Organic Law No 4 / 2019 of 13 September and the fourth amendment to Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ), 30 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Regulates the activity of professional representation of interests ( lobbying), and 253 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Approves transparency rules for private entities performing legitimate representation of interests with public entities and establishes a transparency register for representation of interests. of point 3 is the discussion of the draft resolution No 533 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Evaluation of the 1990 Ortographic Agreement. In point 4, we will appreciate petitions Nos 78 / XIV / 1. a (Júlia Cristina Guerra de Carvalho do Couto et al.) — By integrating the Safety Box of Lawyers and Applicants into social security and No 79 / XIV / 1. a (Júlia Cristina Guerra de Carvalho do Couto et al.) — Nationalization of the Preventive Box of Lawyers and Applicants for Social Security Integration, together with the general discussion of Law Projects 614 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Integration of the Safety Box of Lawyers and Social Security Applicants, 612 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Guarantees lawyers, applicants and implementing agents the possibility of choosing the system of contributions between CPAS and social security, 637 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Establishment of a committee for the possible integration of the Advocates and Applicants'Safety Box ( CPAS ) into the general social security regime as well as Resolution Projects Nos 829 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare and submit to the Assembly of the Republic a study on the feasibility of the integration of the case of lawyers and applicants into social security, 642 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure that lawyers, trainees and applicants receive fair and fair remuneration for the services they provide under legal protection, 735 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government that dialogue with the CPAS, Order of Lawyers and Order of Applicants and Executive Officers, as part of the setting of the contributing indexer correction factor for 2021, 818 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government ensure that reflection and weighting on the possibility of integrating the Advocates'and Applicants'Prevention Box ( CPAS ) into social security, to be equated by the Government, is necessarily done in close coordination with the CPAS, with the Advocates'Order and with the Order of Applicants and Implementing Agents. Point 5 concerns the assessment of Petition No 25 / XIV / 1. a (Sérgio Tavares da Silva et al.) — Diabetes : Extension of free access to PSCI devices (insulin pumps) for individuals aged 18 years, together with the general discussion of the Bill No 642 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Repositions the allocation of the allowance for children and young people under the age of 24 years and of Resolution Projects Nos 764 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Sharing of insulin continuous subcutaneous infusion devices, 768 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Extension of free access to insulin continuous subcutaneous infusion devices — insulin pumps — for individuals aged 18 years, 824 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Regulation of the sharing of insulin pumps and improvement of the procedures for the placement and distribution of devices, 830 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Regulation of the arrangements for the sharing of insulin continuous infusion devices, 756 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the realization of a national register of type 1 diabetes, and 838 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By strengthening patient care with diabetes. Point 6 is the vote on the Rules of Procedure, which will take place at the end of the debate. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a good rest of the day. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 9 minutes.]]
