ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Agents of the Authority. Let us begin our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will do the favor of giving you precious information.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by announcing an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of the Deputies which reports the waiver of the mandate of Deputy Ana Rita Bessa, elected by the electoral circle of Lisbon, which meets all legal requirements, being replaced by Miguel Maria Horta and Costa Arrobas da Silva, with effect from 4 October 2021. This opinion must be voted on, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u3	Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Madam Secretary, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u4	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to the results of the elections that took place in the previous session. The act of election to the Constitutional Court shall be as follows: « On the one day of October of two thousand twenty-one, four judges were elected to the Constitutional Court. Candidates proposed by List A : Professor Doctor Afonso Nunes de Figueiredo Patrão ; Judge Demargador António José da Ascension Ramos ; Professor José Eduardo de Oliveira Figueiredo Dias; Judge Counsellor Maria Benedictia Malaquias Pires Urbano. Article 163 ( h ). the Constitution and Article 16 ( 4 ). the Act of Organization, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court, the result was as follows: Voters — 208 Votes in favour — 145 White votes — 54 No votes — 9 In accordance with applicable legal terms, and in view of the result obtained, the proposed candidates are elected to the Constitutional Court. To record that the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. The Scrutiny Deputies, Diogo León — Sofia Araújo". I now read the Act for the election of the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals. « On the day of October one of two thousand and twenty-one, the election was made to the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals. The result was as follows: Voters — 208 Votes in favour — 146 White votes — 53 No votes — 9 In accordance with applicable legal terms, and in view of the result obtained, they declare themselves elected to the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals : Actual: Francisco Paes Silva Marques ( PS ) ; Paula Margarida Cabral dos Santos Veiga ( PS ) ; Filipe Carlos Ferreira Avides Moreira ( PSD ) ; Joaquim Manuel Freitas da Rocha ( PSD ). Alternates: Carla Amado Gomes ( PS ) ; Maria Manuela da Costa Cardoso Gomes ( PSD ). To record that the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. The Scrutiny Deputies, Ana Maria Celeste Lopes — Sofia Araújo — Diogo León". The election to the Independent Committee for Monitoring and Monitoring of Special Public Procurement Measures is continuing. « On October one of two thousand and twenty-one, the election was held for the Independent Committee for the Monitoring and Monitoring of Special Public Contract Measures. The result was as follows: Voters — 208 Votes in favour — 148 White votes — 53 No votes — 7 In accordance with applicable legal terms, and in view of the result obtained, they declare themselves elected to the Independent Committee for the Monitoring and Monitoring of Special Public Procurement Measures: President: Ana Gouveia and Freitas Martins ( PS ). Members: João Alexandre da Silva Lopes ( PSD ) ; Sara Younis Augusto de Matos ( PS ). To record that the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. The returning Members, Sofia Araújo — Diogo León". Finally, I am reading the report on the Higher Information Council. « On October one of two thousand and twenty-one, the election was held for the Higher Information Council. The result was as follows: Voters — 208 Votes in favour — 129 White votes — 65 No votes — 14 In accordance with applicable legal terms, and in view of the result obtained, they declare themselves not elected to the Higher Council of Information: Actual: Francisco José Pereira de Oliveira ( PS ) ; André Guimarães Coelho Lima ( PSD ). Alternates: Joana Isabel Martins Rigueiro de Sá Pereira ( PS ) ; Carlos Eduardo Vasconcelos Fernandes Ribeiro dos Reis ( PSD ). To record that the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. The returning Members, Sofia Araújo — Diogo León". I now announce the following: the proximity of Father Feytor Pinto's death this morning led Mr. President of the Republic to cancel the trip to Tenerife today and tomorrow to be present at the meeting of the Ibero-American Justice Ministers, who had been authorized by the Assembly of the Republic. In the meantime, they entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, the motion for a resolution No 29 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ), which drops to 2. the Commission. I also refer to Bill Nos. 955 / XIV / 3. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 956 / XIV / 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 957 / XIV / 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 958 / XIV / 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 959 / XIV / 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 960 / XIV / 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 961 / XIV / 3. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 962 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 963 / XIV/ 3. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops 10. the Commission, 964 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 965 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission, 966 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 3. the Commission, 967 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 968 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 969 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 970 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 972 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 973 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 974 / XIV/ 3. a ( PS ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 977 / XIV/ 3. a ( PCP ), which falls to 8. Resolution Projects Nos 1458 / XIV / 3 have also been added to the Table. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1459 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1460 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1461 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1462 / XIV/ 3. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission. It's all Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u5	I would like to welcome the presence among us of a new Member of the CDS-PP, Mr. Miguel Maria Horta and Costa Arrobas da Silva. The first item on the agenda is the joint discussion, in general, of Bills Nos 780 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — prohibits discrimination on grounds of gender identity or sexual orientation in eligibility for blood, 943 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN) — Promotes blood donation and prohibits discrimination on grounds of gender identity or sexual orientation in eligibility to give blood, 945 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ) — prohibits discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression and sexual characteristics in blood donation and 947 / XIV / 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Other Law No. 37 / 2012 of 27 August, preventing discrimination in blood donation due to sexual orientation. First of all, Mr Miguel Matos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 2001, Italy, 2005, Spain, 2015, Argentina, 2020, United Kingdom, Hungary, 2021, Portugal. Yes, it took 20 years for Portugal to follow the path of so many other countries and adopt an individual risk analysis of blood donors. An unprejudiced analysis, without pre-excluding men who simply by having sex with other men are not, in themselves, greater risks. It took a long way to get here. A path made of experiences of discrimination; the saga of gay blood. A path marked by the action of civil society and parliamentary intervention, also in which the Socialist Party has always been present, since Maria Antonio Almeida Santos and Paulo Pedroso first questioned the government on 15 January 2009 until the discussion of today's projects, almost 13 years later. It was a slow and ticking path of progress. In 2010, when they asked the donors if « being a man, had sexual contact with another man », it was by intervention of the Assembly of the Republic that ended discriminatory questionnaires. But gay men were still forbidden to give blood. In 2016, when DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ) revised the norm to end the definitive and permanent ban, it was the Members—and also the Socialist Members— who questioned whether the new standard ended any discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. But to the "yes" response of the government, a "no" of the practice of the Portuguese Institute of Blood and Transplantation ( IPST) was opposed, whose leaders wrote, without any shame, that men who had sex with men were the population with risk behaviors. As if you were more interested in the sex of our sexual partner than whether sex was protected or not, whether it was with stable partners or new partners, etc. At the limit, some said, the norm was not even discriminatory. After all, the gay man could donate blood. There was only one small detail: she could not have sex. In 2017, it was recognized that the new standard did not reach and progressed with a study to verify whether there were technical grounds to justify discrimination. Four long years have passed and a shortage of blood was needed, caused by the pandemic, the protests of activists and collectivesLGBT (Lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgender), the Socialist Youth Bill and several parliamentary hearings for the study to get out of touch. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the study is done and its conclusion is clear—and I quote: "There is no scientific evidence that supports the suspension of the gift among men who have sex with other men". That is why, since March, the DGS standard has been revised. The IPST professionals have already received training and it is planned that all hospitals also receive it. But if science is clear, equality cannot be subject to new ambiguities. She needs force of law. That's what the PS wants to do with the project we are discussing today. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for Parliament to intervene again. It is time to encourage the gift of blood and say that homophobia does not take place in this noble and merciful gesture. It is time to say that all blood gift is vital to saving lives and that none should be wasted because of prejudice. And, therefore, it is time to say that prejudice cannot be masked by scientific grounds which have already been shown to exist. It is time for Parliament to put in the letter of the law that no one can be prevented from giving blood because of their sexual orientation. It is time to ensure that, by paraphrasing Ary, no one else closes the doors that science has opened. [[Greetings from the PS and the MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u7	Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP now has the floor to present the bill of her party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Blood is perhaps the greatest gift a human being can give. Blood donation is an act of citizenship which must be recognized and respected, as must be respected all persons who give it. The blood donation process must, as we know, meet scientific and technical parameters that guarantee its safety throughout the process, but cannot enter into this equation criteria of a subjective or discriminatory nature. The only discrimination that may exist is discrimination of those who have scientific and clinical eligibility to donate blood and those who do not. And that eligibility, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not related to personal characteristics, but to individual risk criteria. In Portugal, ladies and gentlemen, the situations of discrimination according to the sexual orientation of donors were different and erroneously assumed that men who have sexual relations with other men, gays and bisexuals, are people with risky sexual behaviors. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, risk sexual behavior exists regardless of the sexual orientation of each person. It's about behaviors we talk about, not people. The risk can therefore only be associated with a person and his or her behavior, never with a particular reference group. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the uninformed and subjective performance of some professionals has led many people in our country to be subject to temporary suspension of the possibility of blood donation. We are well aware that this is a situation with a lot of advances and retreats too long ago in our country. It is enough to remember that in 2016 the Government had already assured the Assembly of the Republic that ‘any discrimination based on sexual orientation had been removed’ and that the approach to risk behaviors was given regardless of each’s sexual orientation. But shortly thereafter, the norm was republished, backwards in this advance and again reinforcing the practices of discrimination. But, due to political and associative pressure, and in the face of the visibility given by several people through complaints, on March 19, 2021, a standard applied to the Selection of Persons Candidates to the Blood Dádiva with Based on the Individual Risk Assessment, which finally finds that there is no scientific evidence to corroborate any suspension of blood donation based on sexual orientation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal, donors and those in need of blood gift cannot continue to hostage these solovans. Therefore, the NAP presents a bill to ensure that no blood gift can be refused on the basis of obsolete and subjective criteria. We also propose that professionals providing health care and services ensure an up-to-date training that removes prejudices from the technical and scientific criteria that guide these important professions. In fact, the provision of health care and the possibility of saving lives should guide policies. Therefore, awareness of people, communities for blood donation is a fundamental strategy, along with strategies for managing blood banks and improving the use of their components without any waste. I conclude by saying that in our bill we also have as a clear objective that employers recognize the importance of blood donation, recognizing what is the period that the person needs to be away from the work sphere. Therefore, there is also a way to do in this matter to recognize this solidarity and humanist nature of the blood gift. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u9	To present the bill of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs. Fabíola Cardoso.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u10	Mr President, I begin by congratulating all those who participate in this plenary session. The Left Block brings to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic a bill that seeks to end, once and for all, discrimination in the blood donation. Homophobic prejudice, with or without a white coat, cannot continue to overlap with scientific knowledge and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which guarantees equality and non-discrimination. So that no doubt remains, whoever it is, we propose the prohibition of discrimination in blood donations on the basis of sexual orientation, identity and expression of gender and sexual characteristics, thus amending the Statute of the Blood Donor. We also propose, as the other three bills under discussion on the same subject, the conduct of an incentive campaign for blood donation on the part, in particular, of young people and clarification on the criteria to be able to do so. This is, for many and many of us, an old struggle. In 1999, activists of the Homosexual Working Group, of the Revolutionary Socialist Party (ILGA ), of the ILGA ( Lesbian Intervention, Gay, Bissexual, Trans and Intersex ) Portugal and of Opus Gay, today Opus Diversities, carried out public protests, in which they challenged the criteria of selection of blood donors, leading the Portuguese Institute of Blood, at the time, to promise changes. But discrimination in the blood donation continued. In 2010 the Assembly of the Republic adopted, by a large majority, and without any vote against, a draft resolution of the Left Block, which gave rise to Resolution No 39 / 2010, which recommended to the Government the adoption of measures to combat discrimination against homosexuals and bisexuals in the collection of blood. But discrimination in the blood donation continued. In 2012, the Statute of the Blood Donor, approved by Law No 37 / 2012 of 27 August, strengthened its Article 6. that the blood donor has the right to — and I quote — “not to be discriminated against”. This Statute enshrines the gift of blood as a "civic duty" for all people. But discrimination in the blood donation, in practice, continued. The refusal of gifts of gay men and bisexuals occurred, despite the lack of blood donations we have in our country. Even when the situation worsened with the COVID-19 pandemic, and despite the limited reserves available in some blood groups, the practice did not change. Gifts and donors were lost. The complaints of associations and individuals, the news and initiatives of the Left Block continued. The Left Block Parliamentary Group has always opposed this discrimination, which was based on the concept of « risk groups » exceeded and preconceived. Today, finally, it is unanimous: there are no risk groups, there are risk behaviors, which can occur in different groups of people. These behaviors should be evaluated on a case-by-case basis, person by health technicians, regardless of the height, color of the eyes and skin or sexual orientation of the person who is kindly willing to give his own blood for the benefit of another person. It is for blood services to ensure that blood donors meet all scientific eligibility criteria and that these criteria are applied clearly, objectively, equally and proportionately to ensure the safety of the system. Many are the meeting points of the four proposals for debate. It will certainly be possible, in the field of expertise, and by collecting the suggestions of the political parties that have not yet put forward proposals, to reach understandings that will enable us to finally end this abject and humiliating situation. It'll be a historic moment. After 22 years, this is a small step towards a truly freer and fairer society, where equality and, with it, democracy are guaranteed to all people! This is a small step towards real equality in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u11	To submit Bill No. 947 / XIV / 3. a, has the floor to Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not enough to approve strategies, nor to make commitments, to ensure that our law, especially when put into practice, does not allow discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender or other factors. More specifically, there are still people working at the Portuguese Institute of Blood and Transplantation who continue to consider that men who have sex with men automatically correspond to an underpopulation with increased infectious risk, thus preventing them from giving blood. There's still homophobia in the blood donation, and that's intolerable. For all this, I had already presented the Resolution Project No. 1023 / XIV / 2. the, concerning the fight against homophobia in the blood donation, which was approved by a large majority and gave rise to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 105 / 2021. In addition to the review of the DGS standard and the prohibition of discrimination, it is also important to adopt standards for monitoring the selection of candidates for blood donation, in order to detect potential non-compliance situations, as well as to promote awareness campaigns to combat the discrimination of donors, aimed at technicians carrying out this selection. I sincerely hope that this matter will not return to this plenary so soon. It's not required anymore, it's not required less. There is a demand for equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u13	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2021, there are still those who associate homosexuality with promiscuity and sexually transmitted diseases. It's a stereotype, an unacceptable and wrong prejudice. There is no reason why a homosexual or bisexual man, with a stable partner, cannot give blood in exactly the same conditions as a heterosexual man, with a stable partner, does. There are also those who still believe and, worse, those who still teach that homosexuality is a dangerous and transmissible disease. It's just that homosexuality didn't get engaged. Sexual orientation is born with each other, it is not transmitted by blood or by coexistence, and it is certainly not a danger. What is a danger, and affects the lives of many, is to be insulted or assaulted just by walking hand in hand with your companion, is to be discriminated or humiliated by those who should protect you or be abandoned by those who love you most. And this fight against the discrimination of blood donors according to their sexual orientation did not end with the amendment of the DGS standard in March, the law must also safeguard it. Therefore, the Liberal Initiative is not only on the side of the latest scientific knowledge, but above all on the side of the most liberal of all perspectives: full respect for the individual choices of each as affirmation of this supreme value that is individual freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u15	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira spoke on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u16	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is of particular relevance because there has been a recurring controversy about the refusal of the blood donation based on the sexual orientation of donors. The need for its use is too important for political prejudices and opportunisms. Scientific evidence is absolutely necessary here. If there are risks, take courage. If there are no risks, then it ends up with this discrimination. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u17	in this sense, the PSD insisted with DGS to speak in scientific terms on this matter. We must end, once and for all, with this exercise of hypocrisy. It is that, ladies and gentlemen, we all share here a common objective, that the blood that reaches the receiver, the patient, the one who needs it, is of good quality. Moreover, numerous scientific studies have already been carried out at both national and international level, and the only conclusion reached is that there are no scientific facts justifying any differentiation here. That is, it is scientifically proven that the sexual orientation of a donor does not question the quality of the blood that is collected and provided. We also have this guarantee from DGS. Therefore, one cannot accept that a person or a group of persons is treated differently, without a justification or without a basis that is objective and reasonable. in a rule of law, the existence of arbitrary differentiations is not admissible. And, in this case, there is not even any objective and reasonable basis, nor even scientific, for a differentiation. Therefore, it must be unequivocally science, the scientific rigour to define the basis of our policy. Obviously, this PSD bench also condemns all acts and practices that are based on discrimination and that violate the principle of equality. And, expressly, Portugal has a legislative acquis, since then in the Constitution, which unequivocally enshrines the prohibition of any form of discrimination on the basis of a person's sexual orientation. Not at all, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD stance is always the same: it is essential to ensure the safety of our blood donors, who are volunteers, or our patients, who need blood in good condition and hemoderatives to save their lives. in this sense, we follow the position of the Directorate-General for Health, founded in a study of the National Institute of Health Ricardo Jorge, which says: « Decisions concerning the selection of blood-giving people are based on scientific criteria, epidemiologically sustained, aiming to caution the risk and respecting the principles of proportionality, caution, confidentiality, equity and non-discrimination. In consonance, it is understood that, in relation to any blood donor, whether he or she is, a sample evaluation of the person should be made. This evaluation has to be done regardless of its sexual orientation. And this assessment should be based only on risk factors. It is still necessary to adopt uniform criteria in the blood collection posts. But this debate leads us to the other dimension which is unavoidable and which we must not fail to emphasize: the importance of giving blood. In addition to epidemiological considerations, the blood donation policy has generated debates and issues about citizenship and the meaning of the donation. In fact, it has been widely disseminated in various public campaigns that «Just blood is sharing life», « Only blood can save three lives», « Only blood is an act of solidarity ». The Blood Donor Statute itself provides for donation as a civic act, i.e. blood donation has been a mark of responsible citizenship and altruism and, in this sense, the creation of impediments to a specific and determined group of people to be donors is a way of restricting their involvement as citizens, which is unacceptable. Furthermore, the PSD has promoted and stressed the importance of awareness campaigns for blood donation. We know that in Portuguese hospitals it is necessary, every day, about 1000 units of blood and blood components and that blood reserves vary throughout the year, sometimes being quite scarce, so it is essential that the gift be regular and phased throughout the year. in this sense, I take this opportunity to thank all blood donors on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Finally, I hope to be part of a Parliament that will break down an artificial barrier which is so naturally unnecessary. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u18	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The gift of blood is a solidarity, voluntary, free and that enables us to save lives — we all know this — but the importance that blood gift has in the day-to-day of thousands and thousands of people who live in our country and who need it is an incalculable value. We therefore consider it to be to value the individual contribution of each person who voluntarily offers himself to donate his blood to help the other, to donate his blood to save another life. It is, in fact, an element of great importance not only to provide health care to those who need it, but also to ensure that it is provided by the National Health Service. We always advocate the need to guarantee the rights of blood donors, to value blood donors and to ensure the conditions for anyone who wants to donate blood to do so, obviously obeying the eligibility criteria that are objective, the criteria that are scientific and that do not lead to discrimination against anyone without any basis. We understand that these eligibility criteria, objectives and scientists, are relevant to ensuring the safety and quality of the blood donation. We also understand that the protection of the patient, respect for the health of the person who donates blood and the patient who benefits from this donation and respect for the dignity of the blood donor are an integral part of this process that must be present at all times. Thus, by meeting the object of the legislative initiatives that are currently under discussion — and which, of course, we are accompanying — we believe that it makes no sense to make the risk assessment on the basis of sexual orientation, but that this assessment must be done on the basis of individual behaviours of each. Sexual orientation is different from risk behaviors and safe sexual behaviors cannot be considered as risk based on sexual orientation. Therefore, in this debate, it is important not to confuse one thing or another, because they are different things: one thing is to have their sexual orientation, another thing is the risk behaviors that each person has or does not have in his or her life. There have already been changes in the standard of the Directorate-General for Health, following complaints - indeed, it is not the first time that Parliament is dealing with this problem nor is it the first time that this issue is being debated - but we hope that this issue will, in fact, be resolved once and for all, because it makes no sense that we have already raised this issue for a number of times, it has been said that this discrimination will be put to an end and it will remain. We therefore look forward to the contribution that we will also make — that, once and for all, risk assessment should be made with objective criteria, with scientific criteria and that discrimination and inequalities should be put to an end by sexual orientation. In fact, we want to contribute to the increase in blood donations — it is true that at various times in our country there are difficulties and reservations are below what would be necessary — and for this it is necessary to remove the elements that introduce discrimination, it is necessary to respect and value blood donors in order to ensure the quality, safety of the gift and self-sufficiency of our country, which is not just one thing if we want to guarantee health care for all patients. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u20	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are matters in which this Parliament has long assumed its supervisory role until it has even to intervene in its legislative dimension. In 2005, 16 years ago, the Greens questioned the government of then about complaints that had reached this parliamentary group of discrimination against male homosexuals, preventing them from giving blood only because they had such sexual orientation. This discrimination was included in the manual for professionals of the Portuguese Institute of Blood, which was clearly contrary to article 13. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which prohibits discrimination according to sexual orientation. The Ministry of Health of then assured the ENP that, detected the failure, such would be removed from the manual. Later, the same government came to say it by no means and, contrary to the opinion of the scientific community, made the position public that male homosexuals would continue to be unable to give blood because they were considered risk groups. The Greens in 2009 again questioned the Government. Today, we return to the subject, not without the adoption in 2010 of a resolution recommending to the Government "the adoption of measures aimed at combating the current discrimination of homosexuals and bisexuals in the blood collection services, in particular by: the reformulation of all questionnaires containing homophobic statements, in particular with regard to issues relating to the practice of sexual relations between men; the preparation and dissemination of a normative document on the exclusive responsibility of the Ministry of Health itself which expressly prohibits the discrimination of blood donors based on their sexual orientation and makes it clear that the criteria for suspension of donors are based on risk behaviours and not on risk groups. Do not keep on seeking. ” In the meantime, and despite the rules of the government and the Portuguese Institute of Blood itself in the opposite sense, we continue to witness reports of discrimination due to the wrong understanding of professionals or services. This is therefore a case in which the Assembly of the Republic, even though it has already done a lot for this matter to be resolved, ending with unacceptable discrimination, even if it was just a citizen, is taking, perhaps late, an important step in the right direction. The attitude of giving blood is the most noble gift you can know. The motto of the advertising campaign « Giving blood is giving life», sums up this importance. Blood donors, whoever they are, must be treated as heroes and each individual in particular must be treated equally for constitutional reasons, but mainly for human rights reasons that everyone is watching. It is from these two variables on a central issue — the repugnance that must cause us any act of discrimination, on the one hand, and the importance of the act itself, which requires the actors to be treated with irreprehensible dignity, on the other hand — that the Greens will follow the projects we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u22	For an intervention, Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP parliamentary group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, perhaps this debate begins by resolving the essential question, which is to answer the question: can a citizen or a citizen be, in some way, discriminated against, in particular in the gift of blood, according to his sexual orientation or his identity? The answer is simple, it is direct and it is obvious: no, it can't! Having said this, however, there is some reflection to be made on this matter. I would even say that this matter should be examined, as has been said, from a scientific point of view, from the point of view of facts, from the point of view of rigor and nothing of this invites, in my view, some of the proclamation that we have heard in several of the interventions, to begin, from the intervention of the Socialist Party, which seems to actually change the world or make a fundamental conquest around this matter, rather than merely clarifying, to put forward, to make more evident what results from the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the Law No 37/2012. However, I believe that there is some injustice—and this has much to do with this proclamation—when it is assumed that there is a certain discriminatory intention, from the outset, on this matter, by health professionals, by various general health directives, or by anyone else. No, this matter is very related to some specific diseases and, if we think, for example, in the 1980s, with the expansion itself and with the spread of AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome), which at the time was associated with it, and this led to a reasoning that then the evolution of the pandemic itself, knowledge and science told us that it does not make sense to look at the terms in which they were looked at at in an initial phase because of what was happening at that time. That is, even knowing that not all sexual practices, or others, have the same degree of risk — we know that not all sexual practices have the same degree of risk — these practices cannot be associated with individuals in particular, or with communities in particular, or with concrete guidelines. People cannot, in fact, be discriminated against on the basis of this because what there is — and we agree — are risk behaviours. How is a risk behavior—I know there! — the use of syringes, in particular if they are shared. This is a risk behavior and health needs to assess this situation. This is what is at stake and not people's sexual orientation. However, I would say that under no circumstances does it come from the law, a good principle and a good approach to this matter anyone can be discriminated against on the basis of his choice, his orientation, or his sexual identity. You can't be discriminated against! But we cannot go into an excess where behavior cannot be evaluated, that is, in which health professionals cannot inquire and cannot ask—of course, with privacy and confidentiality—by behavior. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that in conclusion there are no citizens at risk, there are risky behaviours, so we have no problem in making the projects generally available today under discussion. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u24	For an intervention, Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We do not, of course, accept under any circumstances, as it is obvious, any discrimination by sexual choice. I've heard a little bit about it here, and I mean this is very simple. What is involved in blood donation is not sexual options, but, yes, risky behaviors, whether they are of a sexual or any other order, whatever the sexual option. This is a scientific issue. When a matter as sensitive as blood donation is concerned, the only criteria that can and should be counted are those of public health. If the scientific criteria say, as they seem to say, that it is a matter of behavior and not of choice, it is obvious that the issue is decided by nature. Now, is it worth legislating about that? I don't think so. We're starting to have more laws. The Constitution already says so, it makes it clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u26	You have the floor to close this debate, Mrs Isabel Moreira, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : Inspired by a witness from Prof. Paulo Corte-Real, who has helped us over time to think about this matter, there are people who, in fact, since they are known, as men, do not know whether they can donate blood. It is our responsibility in collective terms. Responsibility is collective and historical. It took time to correct a mistake of the past which, in fact, was remembered, of the time of the other pandemic, in which it did not matter much who died. It was the time, as Prof. Paulo Corte-Real explains, of the risk groups. We know that no one, being gay, would be more likely to get infected by HIV (human immunodeficiency virus). Yeah! Paul Corte-Real explains: "The question has always been of behaviors, but at the time the effort to control the spread of the virus and even to identify the forms of transmission was particularly limited, because the lives of those who died are worth less to those who, at the time, held power and perhaps to people in general. At the time, let us let them die. What remained in the memory of these people did not remain in the blood». It was based on this same group logic that the exclusions in the blood donation were established. So this has a story: «In the end, they defined our blood, the blood of gay men, the blood of those who survived as dirty, dangerous, infectious». I'd say there's never been an apology. Here you are!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u29	Because it hurts to read this. We must say the obvious: it is essential to ensure the quality of the blood collected and it is essential that the selection criteria in the collection be more incisive. Homophobia hurts health and the Constitution does not allow it. Paul Corte-Real thus ends his testimony: « As long as I know that I have never given blood because I do not want to run the risk of being stigmatized in a screening process. No, I'm not taking that risk! As long as I know I don't know if I can give blood. Once and for all, I'd like to know." Make it clear that you can donate blood! [[P.S.P., MP Joacine Katar Moreira and BE Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u30	Mrs. Members, having finished this item on our agenda, we are now generally discussing the Bill No 111 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — regulates the use of video camera surveillance systems by security forces and services together with Resolution Projects Nos. 988 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Acquisition of load chambers ( bodycams) for service vehicles and video surveillance in teams and stations, 119 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By strengthening investment and valuing security forces and 1268 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — Recommends the use of cameras by national security forces agents. You have the floor to open the debate, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration, Antero Luís.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government, after 16 years of the current law on security forces and services surveillance, understood well, following the experience gained over these 16 years, to make amendments to that law, with its repeal. On the one hand, in order to expedite procedures and, on the other, to densify the protection of rights, freedoms and guarantees and, on the other, to adapt the law to new technologies and new technical solutions. All this always with the concern of maintaining the basic principles of the law which is now to be repealed, that is, always taking into account the balance between security and fundamental rights that this video protection mechanism may put at risk. in this sense, the Government extends the purposes of video surveillance and, in this context, new areas of use of video surveillance cameras have been introduced by security forces, from the very complex security operations, in ongoing security incidents, in traffic control and in maritime and inland navigation, as well as in the protection of the marine environment and its investigation and prevention of infringements, in search and rescue actions and still in border control. On the other hand, the use of portable cameras installed on ships and boats is clarified in vehicles, including unmanned, i.e. drones. On the other hand, the Government, on the understanding that it is an urgent need for security forces to operate in the maintenance of a security environment, intends to propose to this House the use and consecration of portable cameras for individual use, the bodycams. Thus, the Government tries to typify the use of these chambers in order to say what are the situations in which they are used and at the same time to say that they can and should only be used in this situation. in these situations, the agent may not only, as he should use. On the other hand, if you do not do so, there will be a disciplinary offence, in addition to any criminal responsibility. On the other hand, there is also a surveillance system in maritime areas; therefore, there is a specialized competence in accordance with the purposes for which, however, it has been extended, and the security forces are allowed to access any video surveillance systems, whether public entities or private entities, provided that they are obviously fit for the purposes of this diploma and are in public or private places of access to the public. In addition, the use of image capture cameras is also densified only to four specific situations: complex operational management, terrorism, ongoing incidents and search and rescue. In addition to these issues, there are two data and two situations of enlargement of the use of video surveillance cameras which are sensitive. The Government is aware of this sensitivity, because it is here that much of the balance between security and fundamental rights is also played, namely the right to image and privacy. This is the explicit consecration of analytical data management and also of the collection of biometric data. It does not know the Government that this matter is not peaceful, that the European Union has a recommendation on it and does not know that these are indeed high-risk matters from the point of view of its consecration. But the Government believes that it is preferable to enshrine and typify this matter, explicitly saying in what situations it is possible, rather than to be omitted. The Government proposes that this House should only apply to the prevention of terrorism and always — and I repeat — under judicial authorization, i.e. a warrant is required for the analytical management of biometric data. Why this concern? Because we believe that we really need to have all the control mechanisms that can possibly be established so that we can be sure of the use of this tool which, as I say, is extremely sensitive and extremely harmful, if misused, in terms of fundamental rights. I would therefore say that the Government does the following exercise: on the one hand, it extends the purposes of video surveillance, including new realities within its scope; on the other hand, it strengthens the mechanisms for monitoring the use of video surveillance. in this sense, also in the area of monitoring, the government creates specific monitoring standards for the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD ), whether the periodic verification of systems, whether the access to data collected in specific cases, whether the requirement of opinion in relation to all video surveillance systems and, moreover, introduces for the first time the intervention of the General Inspection of Internal Administration, with a view also to making recommendations regarding the improvement of procedures and the supervision of video surveillance. In addition, the Government still accounts for biannual reports on this subject, advertising all video surveillance systems on an electronic platform, what their requirements and procedures, and, at the end of three years, it undertakes to make a legislative assessment of these amendments which it is now proposing to Parliament. You know the government and we all know that algorithms are not neutral. We know that the risk of these matters is very much decided on at this point and establishing justice and non-discretionary algorithms is a complex work. I would therefore say that these matters are extremely sensitive and must be analysed with caution. This is the bill that the government brings with it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u32	I call on the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u33	Mr President, I would like to say, firstly, in relation to the statement by the Secretary of State, that I record and thank you, that we are not out of the spirit of what the Government is bringing us today, of course, with the legitimacy of the CDS-PP, of a long time ago to this party, partly to defend what the Government now brings in a broader way, i.e. the use and modernisation of video surveillance in various situations, including in combating crime and in combating particularly dangerous crime and terrorism itself. We also know that there are doubts and that, surely, we can — that is our will — discuss this matter in the field of expertise. For example, how far can we use it in environmental crimes, where it could be very relevant, in rural fires, or in compliance with the rules of the Road Code itself? of the various opinions that we already have, there is a set of subjects that lack reflection and that should have that same reflection, namely the issue, which has been mentioned, of the use of biometric data, whose complexity we recognize. Obviously, it must also be considered, in our view, in the field of expertise. The proposal presented by the CDS today, and which we maintain—I will explain why— basically has to do with two things: the use of bodycam calls in the charging of security forces agents and the possibility of using cameras also at GNR ( Republican National Guard ) posts. That's our intention. This is a draft resolution and therefore adds to what the government is bringing us now. We also hope that you will have the agreement of your Excellencies in order to be able to be analyzed in the field of specialty. We believe that it can function as a dual protection, so to speak, a protection for the generality of citizens, because there will be registration and video of situations, including complaints that occur, for example, in teams or posts, and also for the protection of the agents themselves. It is not by chance that union associations and associations representatives of forces and security services have long defended this possibility, precisely to protect them in situations of tension. We have recently seen some tension situations, still about the pandemic, and some manifestations of the pandemic. What exactly happened? What exactly was the performance? We need to know exactly what is fundamental, i.e. whether the action was proportional or not. So that is basically what is in our proposal. They will therefore have our willingness to examine all these matters in the field of expertise and to verify, of course, the doubts about the enlargement, the restrictions and the issue of biometric data in relation to the Government's proposal. We hope that our intention will also be in this discussion, in the field of expertise, so that progress and implementation can be made later. We shall soon have the debate on the State budget. It will be the right time to achieve some of these intentions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u34	Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u35	Mr President, this is an issue that we have already tabled in the context of the last State budget and which we have brought here repeatedly. So far, this fundamental issue relating to the safety of agents has not been approved and it is with all the satisfaction that we finally see it being welcomed. This issue of security is fundamental, for the cases of assaults on teams, for cases where there is complete indecision about who did well and who did wrong, that is, it is the only hypothesis that we must be able to quickly clarify whether or not there has been, in fact, by security agents, abuses or if there was just a need to restore public order. We therefore await the vote that will be taken and hope that we will finally be given a reason.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u36	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Mr. Secretary of State Antero Luís, I must tell you to come here to recognize that this is a sensitive and complex matter with heavy air does not arrive, because what we are doing today is to discuss a bill of enormous implication based on an opinion received from the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities (ANMP), between nine requested, and none of the National Data Protection Commission, which, as Mr. Secretary of State has just confessed, will have a very reinforced role in this matter. Therefore, in good rigour, we should not be discussing this initiative today. This bill brings to the discussion the eternal dilemma between security and freedom, through which, by trying to shake with more or less real fears, more or less immediate, we are wanting to pursue individual freedoms. When do you say that biometric data for the prevention of terrorist acts can only be used with judicial authorization, who checks? Where's the opinion on that? When does it say that the analytical management of the collected data is limited to certain circumstances, who checks and where is it? When it is said that there are certain matters which lead to the subsequent destruction of unauthorised recordings, particularly those which are urgent and which do not have authorization, who can verify that destruction? Where is he? So, we are here in a hurry to discuss a diploma that can have enormous implications for the invasion of privacy and individual freedoms of each one the exchange of a notion of security that I contend it is as immediate as that.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u38	I appreciate your conclusion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u39	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, as Benjamin Franklin said, who puts security in front of freedom does not deserve either.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u40	For an intervention, Mr Nelson Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Fundamental rights are universal and inalienable. There is no doubt about that. However, its natural interdependence and life in society itself bring the need to weigh and regulate the possible or possible limits to these rights. This is what we are debating today, a real collision of rights, an opposition to individual rights in the face of collective rights. On the one hand, we are faced with the right to privacy and protection of personal data and, on the other, we have video surveillance as a mechanism that is intended to be an improvement in security and in combating crime. The Government's initiative aims to regulate the use of surveillance systems by security forces and services, including fixed and portable cameras, electronic surveillance systems and bodycams. The proposal recognises and provides for a set of safeguards for fundamental rights. It is also envisaged that some of these systems will serve to safeguard animal safety, protect the marine environment and ensure forest protection, even against fires, which we therefore consider to be an important step in ensuring that environmental crimes, at all levels, become expensive and consequently duly sanctioned. With regard to the use of bodycams by the security forces—which is expected to be used only in the context of police action—, not only is it intended to respond to a sector claim, insofar as it will prove the proportionality or even the legality of the actions of the agents, such as protecting the citizen. The right to privacy and data protection is a fundamental right, but not an absolute right. Of course, this limit must be very well regulated and attentive to the principle of necessity and proportionality. The European Parliament itself today argued that the use of artificial intelligence by European Union police, such as the use of video surveillance systems, should involve strong safeguard for the privacy of citizens and the prohibition of discrimination. In view of this, will it make sense to fully impede the use of a means of evidence that protects both parties, for example, in a situation of police confrontation? Will it make sense to obstruct a measure that will deter aggression against security forces professionals and police abuse situations? Will it make sense to speak of a total inviolability of privacy when everyone here, probably when reading the news this morning, on the phone or on the computer, clicked on "accept all cookies" without questioning or even thinking about permission they just provided in exchange for access to a website? We do not want to say with this, of course, that the issue of data protection is not of extreme relevance and that it should not be guided by a tight strike and a whole zealous procedure and criteria for safeguarding these rights. This initiative is launching a crucial and necessary debate which has based on a simple question but which has remained unanswered for decades. Do we want a safer society in exchange for a lower right to privacy or do we want to favour privacy to the detriment of collective security? This is the question to which we must answer, with responsibility, a sense of collectiveness and a democratic spirit.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u42	Mr Duarte Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This is a matter, as someone has already said, too important not to deal with proper preparation, dignity and information. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, video surveillance can be the best friend of the rule of law, provided that the data is reliable, be safe and that its use is quite weighted and limited. Mr. Secretary of State, we do not think it is right to start this conversation and this debate without the government has requested an opinion from the National Data Protection Commission in due course. Parliament did so immediately, as soon as it received this initiative, because it is not possible to have a deep discussion without this. This is a habit that the government should have so that the discussion can be serious, so that we are not here discussing a government initiative that has no solid basic information and that conditions us from here to the front. Mr Secretary of State, there is one aspect which we also consider appropriate to highlight. The government takes advantage of this initiative, and well, to better regulate the issues of video surveillance in the forest. But there is a warning to the government: the government should also be concerned — and the PSD will present an initiative in this regard — to ensure that the municipalities and districts at risk of forest fire have all video surveillance. It is that people do not know, but, for example, today, the Algarve, Évora, Portalegre, Faro, have no video surveillance in the forests, which makes no sense, Mr. Secretary of State. I must say that, in the area of video surveillance, the government is zigging, because, if this initiative is now presented, it has recently withdrawn from the criminal policy guidelines — a law for two years — a very important point that required the government to present a national video surveillance plan. This was so until last year—we don't understand the reason—and now we're going back and we're going to fix this mistake. But there is another warning I have to make, Mr. Secretary of State. The European Parliament yesterday adopted an own-initiative report precisely in the sense of our government, which says that biometric data on video surveillance should not be used with artificial intelligence. Interestingly, the Socialist Party in Brussels voted in favour of this report against the Government's option. This does not mean that the government's option is wrong, nothing like that. Until we believe, Mr Secretary of State, that video surveillance is important and is a way to protect the rule of law. It is a way of separating wheat from juicy, police and security officers who abuse their power, but also to defend them when they are unjustly accused of abuse of power. And it also serves to distinguish citizens who are unjustly assaulted by security forces from those who are assaulted or suffer the use of force because they had behavior that justified it. Therefore, video surveillance is a way of separating extremists, those who think that security forces are always right or never right, and it also serves to separate those who think that citizens are never right or always right, even if they prevariate. That is why, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that bodycams can be an instrument of truth, transparency, guarantee the rule of law and respect for human rights, ensuring that the use of force is used only when justified and necessary. That is why only security forces have the right to use. We believe in the goodness of the bill, but, Secretary of State, the mistakes along the way are so many that even the idea that the government does not want this to happen. For this reason, the PSD will not generally impermissible this bill and will prepare itself to discuss in detail, so that it can improve and ensure that this is an instrument for truth, moderation, balance and good sense, against the radicals of the left or right. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u44	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This bill is known in public opinion as the bill—we use the Anglo-Saxon term—of the bodycams, but it is much, much more than that. And this "much more" is excessively more than that. In fact, what we are discussing is a generalization of the use of video surveillance for a wide range of purposes. With regard to this Article 3. the, about the purposes, we can almost use that expression that says video surveillance can be used for two reasons: for everything and for nothing! In fact, video surveillance is provided for the protection of buildings and public infrastructures; for the protection of critical infrastructures; for support for the operational activity of security forces and services; for the protection of persons, animals and goods in various situations, with high probability of the occurrence of facts qualified by law as crime; for the high circulation or concentration of people; for the occurrence of disturbance of public order, and for the enumeration continues with the prevention of terrorist acts... What is this? Oh, my God! How is this possibility of using video surveillance to prevent terrorist acts being densified? What does this not allow? Oh, my God! Therefore, from our point of view, this bill is excessive. It is said here that it is necessary to reconcile the value of security with the value of protection of fundamental rights, to balance these two values, and we agree with that. Only that this bill, Mr. Secretary of State, does not balance, on the contrary, deeply disbalance by taking a significant step towards the hypervideovigilance of society as a whole and of human activities as a whole. This seems to us, in fact, manifestly excessive, so much more so that the decision-making process with regard to the use of video surveillance is almost exclusively police/government. This in addition to the possibility of municipal chambers, on their own initiative, create situations of hypervigilance in their territory. But then we have decisions, often discretionary by the police authorities, with generic authorizations by government members. So, here is an administrativeization/politicization of the use of video surveillance which, from our point of view, is manifestly excessive. The Government says in the explanatory statement that in the legislative process the Assembly of the Republic will try to listen to the National Data Protection Commission. Of course he will. But what is misunderstood is why the government did not do so when preparing the bill, because that was the practice. That is, often in the preparation of a legislative initiative, the Government consults the National Data Protection Commission and, if well understood, follows its opinions, because it is true that the Government is not obliged to follow the CNPD opinions on legislative acts, but of course that the Government could consider the objections raised by the CNPD. The government has chosen not to do so, and this has, in fact, some meaning in this legislative process. Then there is the question already mentioned here of the sensitivity of the collection of biometric data and there are some aspects of discretion that are difficult to understand. Mr. Secretary of State said, with regard to the so-called bodycams or portable cameras of individual use, that they should be used in situations specified and that if the agent did not do so in such situations it would be subject to disciplinary procedure. Mr. Secretary of State, but that's not here anywhere! We read the provision concerning this use and what we see is not exactly that. What we see is that there is a significant discretionary margin and some aspects difficult to understand about its use, which should be clarified. So, there are some aspects that, obviously, if this proposal goes to specialty, as it seems to happen...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u46	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u47	I shall conclude, Mr. President. As I was saying, if this proposal goes to specialty, as it seems to happen, because the PSD has already said that it will be viable in general, there will obviously be a lot of work to be done, and we will participate in this work, but our judgment, in general, on this bill is that it is manifestly excessive as to hypervideovigilance on society. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u48	Mr José Manuel Pureza spoke for one speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The debate on video surveillance is a debate on freedoms and the imperative of the proportionality of the limits to those freedoms, it is a debate on the absolutely essential frontier between the State of Freedoms and the police state. In the Left Block, we do not feed any ambiguity on this matter: if a citizen attacks an agent of any security force, it is a crime provided for in the law, it must be judged and punished; and if an officer of any security force abuses the force that the State gives him to attack a citizen, it is a particularly serious crime that cannot be punished. A few days ago it was known the prosecution of the Public Prosecutor's Office on police brutality in Amadora, in January last year, which left Cláudia Simões disfigured. The story is overwhelming. Says the Public Prosecutor's Office that, as he pulled punches and kicks in the face of Cláudia Simões, the police officer called him black and macaca. And because we do not feed any ambiguity, we have the clarity to say that such situations are absolutely intolerable in a rule of law. In a respectable country, all people, regardless of their condition or skin color, should be able to trust those who wear a police uniform. Faced with outrage and unacceptable situations like this, it is not conceivable the selectivity of the extreme right, and of some right that is confused with it, always so noisy to exacerbate individual acts, but almost always referred to silence when it comes to dealing with the problem of police violence. There are two ways of not solving the problem of police violence: one is silence, the other is a noise such that it makes it impossible to hear whatever it is. And, of course, silence is an accomplice, transforming a serious problem into a kind of reality show into nothing contributes to ending police violence. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: They are the ones who start this debate with the ingenuity thesis, the cynical means that technology is politically neutral. It's not! Video surveillance, whether with fixed support or, above all, with bodycams, is a means of visibility and invisibility, is a means that, therefore, does not dispense interpretations or prevent biases determined by pre-trials. In the sciences of communication, the notion of camera vision is consolidated, i.e. when we see a video that shows a reality seen by the eyes of the filmers, we tend to adopt an interpretation of what is shown to be favorable to that person. Envision, therefore, that joins other consignments of race, gender, social or cultural positioning. What the police agent's webcam shows is not reality, it's only the reality that was filmed, as limited and as uncontextualized as any other partial vision of reality. A title in a New York Times article summarizes the question that seriousness has to do — Police Body Cameras : What of You See? What is shown and what is not shown, the angle with which it is shown, the sound that is captured and what is not captured, the time when it is filmed and what is preliminary or later and is not filmed, all are selections, all are choices, all are focussings and truncations. We have no illusions about this, and therefore we have all reservations. Finally, it adds that what is filmed cannot, in most cases, be viewed by third parties, because it is private and protected by the safeguard regime of personal data. It is not a good way to ignore the resolution, even yesterday adopted by the European Parliament and which has already been mentioned here, that, in line with the European Data Protection Authority and the European Data Protection Committee reservations, alerts to risks in the use of biometric data for the remote identification of people. And it is no use, Mr Secretary of State, to ensure that it is only for the prevention of terrorism, because we know how it starts, we never know how it ends.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u51	There are also numerous, as we know, the opinions of the National Data Protection Commission which call into question the legitimacy of fixed video surveillance devices, precisely because of this undue intrusion in the field of personal privacy which no security argument can justify. And, of course, if that's the case with fixed devices...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u52	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u53	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, if so with fixed devices, for the most part it will be with portable devices. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To conclude, knowing the truth of violence against police officers and police violence is increasingly a requirement of democracy, but to do so by mistifying the neutrality of technology and not taking proper care of the fundamental principles of the rule of law is not a good way. It is on behalf of these imperatives and the defence of the State of freedoms that the Left Block demarcates the solutions of the proposals currently under discussion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u54	Mrs Isabel Oneto of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Socialist Party this law is, of course, necessary and comes at a good time. The usefulness of video surveillance has been questioned here very much, but it is also demonstrated, not only in several European Union states, as in this outside world. We believe that this law has, of course, the possibility of being improved in the field of specialty. In fact, they all have, because they all count on the contribution of all the benches. I understand any doubts about the urgency of the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission, but the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission has an object limitation, which has to do with matters exclusively related to data protection. Political evaluation is not excluded in this Assembly of the Republic. This is where political scrutiny is made of the need or not of this debate. It is clear that we will take into account the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission with regard to the protection of personal data — certainly! — but the political assessment of the need for what is here is this Assembly of the Republic which must do so at this headquarters. I heard here saying there's video surveillance for everything in this degree. Well, I say, right now, there's video surveillance for everyone! I don't see anyone here in this room bothering with the thousands of video surveillance systems that exist in shopping centers, pharmacies, service stations, discotheques... in all that is access space to the public there is video surveillance. Until access to this Assembly of the Republic, by officials, there is collection of biometric data. Well, there's no problem about that! For the private, the principle of responsibility is accepted, and they do not even need to communicate to the National Data Protection Commission and install their systems. As far as the responsibility of the public power is concerned, here-d' el-rei, because he mistrusts. We cannot accept this principle, because the public authority must be respected and we must have confidence in it, otherwise we do not trust the rule of law. This is the principle that is underlying this law. It's just that the private are filming, the private are filming, and by the way, nobody bothers. The whole European Union uses biometric data for the entry and exit of the Schengen Area in our passports. If any European, with a warrant of arrest, is found to enter the Schengen Area, he is immediately detained. If someone outside the European space enters the European space with an Interpol warrant is immediately detained to be extradited. Ah, but biometric data cannot be used to stop a terrorist in European space, because that already violates rights, freedoms and guarantees! Well, let us stop from some considerations which, on a certain left, also seem to be to shed what does not come to this debate. In fact, freedom and security are necessary, but there is no freedom without security or security without freedom. So let us put this issue at the right point, which is to know how to defend our citizens. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Member Duarte Marques.]] This is the big question! This is the issue that I think we need to discuss here in the political evaluation, listening to all the entities that, certainly, this House has to hear. To bring to this debate the abuse of power which must be severely punished, with all violence and without complacency, of course, but to include a principle of mistrust of State authority on this issue is to undermine that authority, it is to weaken the rule of law. This is what you're doing here and we can't agree to.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u56	Oh, very good! I didn't even say that! That's where we got here!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u57	Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, in the debate on the specialty, we will have to clarify, as the Communist Party pointed out, the question of the use of bodycams, of how they can and should record and regulate the question of sound registration, of course, but we will have time to improve what is considered necessary in the understanding and political evaluation of this House. We will certainly do so, and with this we will certainly contribute to greater security and the maintenance of the rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u58	You now have the floor by the CDS Parliamentary Group, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u59	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly and only in the way of conclusion, particularly in relation to the proposal presented by the CDS here, I would like to say the following: I very much agree with this last speech by Mrs Isabel Oneto,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u60	Sure, sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u61	... in particular in the area of deepening and improvements that can be made, as a matter of speciality, in the assessment of biometric data. As it is obvious, and the honourable Members. Members can say what they want, it is objectively true that video surveillance exists, and there is on a large scale in our society, so it must be monitored and regulated. The point I want to mention is not that, my point has much to do with what Mr José Manuel Pureza said just now. And I said a number of things that I can even admit — in fact, anyone can admit — that the view of those who have the camera is not irrelevant to the reading we make of the facts. Right! Absolutely agree! The moment may be relevant, the angle where the images are captured may be relevant. In fact, Mr President, this is so much discussed, for example, in sports... All this is relevant and obvious, but what you cannot convince me is that we have nothing better than these images. That's the point! It is that these images can be read, can be read subjectively, can be interpreted, can be seen by an inquiry committee or within an investigation, can be given the discount of the angle, of the moment, of whom you captured the images, all of this can be read and can have a subjective reading,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u62	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u63	...what doesn't convince me is that we have no proof, either to protect the citizen or to protect the agent, it's better than we can have these images.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u64	Mr Duarte Marques also spoke for the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is moving to see the PCP and the Block so concerned about individual freedoms when they are challenged by collective public entities, but we understand why.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u66	But what is your question? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u67	What matters, and I have asked for the floor to mention it, is that this legislation, which is correct or wrong, is very relevant, because it is necessary to regulate this area, but it is necessary to regulate it with judgment and with good sense. As I have already said, the government has failed to start this process. It may be a characteristic of this ministry in this political phase that we live in, but we will be here to correct it, because there is one thing that no one can hide: fortunately, if we have knowledge today and we are outraged by certain kinds of abuses that occurred in this outside world, it was because we had access to these images filmed by police and video surveillance, otherwise many criminals had become unpunished. So we must not forget this message and, Mr President, we will be here, above all, to ensure the quality of this legislation. By now, he had concluded by referring to the following: the Socialist Party said that it was pointless to call data protection here, and so much it did not, nor was it compulsory for the government to have felt the need to refer to the preamble which did not request the opinion. But there he is, it was so necessary that they forgot to ask or for some reason they didn't. We could have started better, but I believe that we are still going to straighten the way and the right path will reach a good port. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u68	To close the debate, the Government has the floor through Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration, Antero Luís.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Replying only to three or four questions, I would say that the Government did not, in fact, request the opinion and did not deliberately request it...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u70	We understand that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u71	...as you didn't ask other entities, because you knew the Assembly would. It's as simple as this. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u72	There are two things that need to be seen: one thing is to converse informally with the National Data Protection Commission, and this the government has done, which has not formally requested an opinion. But like the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen know, the opinion will come here, it will come into the debate and the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously, you will have time to read all the opinions. There is something here that I would like to mention that I think it is important to consider: it seems that we are talking about a country that is full of video surveillance — in 16 years, there are 17 systems installed and only in five municipalities is that there is video surveillance. That's what we're talking about in the country! We're not talking about the big national brother, that doesn't exist. Therefore, there is here, contrary to what one can think, a massification of video surveillance, this does not exist at this time. Then there is another aspect for which I would like to draw attention: in fact, the European Parliament said this, but it does not fail to say that in specific cases it is possible, and the specific case that the Government has identified is the prevention of terrorism. Then the gentlemen. Members say: 'Ah, but this can be extended'. It'll only be extended if the gentlemen. Members shall vote on it, because it is an absolute matter of reservation of the Assembly and it is necessary for the Assembly to extend the scope. The Government believes that it is only the prevention of terrorism and that is what it proposes to this House ; whether the House later or when it understands, or whether to extend, it is the House that has to decide. The Government believes that the prevention of terrorist acts is sufficient at this time and that it has reduced this in terms of biometric data, and, as I have said, with judicial authorization. Obviously, the Government admits, and could not otherwise, that the bill can be improved in this House, especially with the contribution of all. So that is what the government expects of this House and that, after all, the proposal that goes out here is even better than that which has entered and we can have a proposal that meets the security needs. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, security is an active country and is an active in various dimensions, so we have to prepare for the future today. We all know that today we have a balanced security situation and I would say that satisfactory and reasonable, but nothing guarantees us that in the future we have it and it is good that we have instruments that will enable us to continue to guarantee this security asset that the country currently has. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u73	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this item on our agenda. We move on to point 3, which consists of the assessment of Petition No 109 / XIV / 1. a — the S.T.O.P. Union initiative — By reducing the number of students per class, by rejuvenation of the teaching class and by the dignity of non-teaching staff in schools. For now, there are no inscriptions to intervene, but I hope that while there will be a small change in the table, the same will arise. [[At the moment, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u74	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll greet you again. At the beginning of this debate, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens begin, first of all, by welcoming the petitioners, by reducing the number of students per class, by rejuvenating the teaching class and by dignifying non-teachers in schools. Greeting that we want to address with particular appreciation to all the teachers who expressed themselves yesterday, on the World Teacher's Day, in front of the Ministry of Education, for dignity and professional valorization and in protest against disrespect for collective bargaining. To these fighters of always, who never give up the consequent struggle in defense of the public school and the rights of teachers, our most lively tribute. Public school has gone through great and serious difficulties in recent years. Even last week, we discussed in this House some of the schools that need structural works so that they can offer conditions in order to fulfill the function of the school, which is to educate and teach. Today, once again, we discuss the difficulties that are felt on the day-to-day public school and that are intensified every new school year. It is necessary to hire more teachers, end of precariousness, rejuvenation of the class of teachers, which requires and above all needs to be respected in their rights. The Greens reaffirm that the appreciation of the teaching career is a determining factor for a good education policy. To devalue teachers, as so many governments have done, corresponds to an objective and truthful attack on education in our country and public school. Teachers continue to live in bad shape behind their backs, hoping that the Ministry of Education will respect them and guarantee them working conditions, at times, with less bureaucracy, with more didactic materials and corresponding to the new digital age, which, unfortunately, is only in the field of intentions. The school exists, and it is never more to remember, depending on the students. Without them the school loses sense and for children and young people to develop in a healthy, equal and equitable way, it is imperative that the number of students per class be reduced. Only in this way will it be possible to ensure a more personalized teaching, focused on the student, adapted to each and simultaneously interactive and participatory. In addition to this aspect, at a time when physical distance has become necessary as a form of pandemic restraint, The Greens consider that the reduction in the number of students per class should be urgently effective, for the benefit of the whole community. To ensure the proper functioning of the school in the coming school year, it is necessary to value its workers, teachers, assistants, senior technicians. Yes, it is necessary to guarantee their rights and the value of their wages, careers and working conditions. The Greens will not give up this fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u76	Mrs Alexandra Vieira of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I greet all petitioners and the S.T.O.P. for this petition which is finally discussed in this House. The Left Block welcomes the mobilization of teachers and educators yesterday, Professor's International Day, on another day of struggle, in an attempt by the Ministry of Education to hear the serious problems that arise from education. The lack of teachers is increasingly noticed every school year. 50 000 teachers are expected to be reformed by 2030. There is no lack of proposals to solve the problem of lack of teachers. I give three examples: one year ago, the Left Block presented a bill that created a compensation scheme for displaced teachers, a compensation against invoices for increased costs of accommodation and transport, but PS and PSD voted against. A few months ago, Law No. 47 / 2021 was published, originating in a project of the Left Block, which determines the review of the recruitment and mobility regime of basic and secondary teaching staff and the law that determines the opening of an extraordinary competition for teachers of special techniques. The Government has decided to ask for the constitutionality of these laws, as is their right, but to solve the concrete problem of lack of teachers and the degradation of their career, what will the Government do? The lack of teachers results in an incomprehensible paradox and without justification. Portuguese teachers are of the oldest in Europe, they have a career full of obstacles to progress. Meanwhile, thousands of teachers await entry into the career, hesitantly accepting a full time 300 km away from home or employment as a box in a supermarket. And when they accept, even working 22 working days per month only discount for social security for less days and come to live in tents of camp. The economic vision has long taken account of the educational policies to the announced population breakdown and the reduction of teachers was a wrong way to contain the expenditure of the Ministry of Education. Meanwhile, the number of students per class grew. The same can be said about educational action auxiliaries, who have been indifferent as operational assistants and have been stepping up for decades in a perverse evaluation, the SIADAP (Integrated Management and Performance Assessment System in Public Administration), which only allows them to progress through points at the end of 10 years and for wages just above the minimum order. Finally, another disturbing symptom is the fact that fewer students and high school students want to be teachers. Once again the government and the universities themselves ignore this fact and wager in courses with supposedly greater employability. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen. Members, tens of thousands of students and students are currently without classes and since the beginning of the school year. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government has been in a state of denial for several years about what is happening in public school and in education in Portugal. We in the Left Block will continue to present our proposals for the valorization and defense of the public school. Will the government, in turn, continue to realize that everything is all right in education? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u78	Mrs Alma Rivera from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We congratulate the petitioners and reiterate the urgency of finding solutions to the problems affecting public school. It is undeniable that the policy of devaluation and underfunding of public school has affected the quality of education and overloaded its workers, only not being worse because all professionals work hard to overcome existing limitations. But the situation is unsustainable if we want to recover the lost time with COVID and if we want to make education a development pillar. It is clear that the public school has a huge shortage of workers and valued workers, with conditions to perform their duties, and this needs to be addressed, from the teacher to the psychologist, through specialized technicians, administrative assistants and operational assistants. The context we live in is of enormous need for learning recovery, but there is only one way to do it: it is with follow-up, proximity, pedagogical differentiation to respond to each situation and to each case and this is not done with large classes and with teachers for placing in schools. It is done by reducing the number of students per class and therefore it is necessary to hire teachers and ensure stability in the tables. But for more teachers, effective measures are needed. That is why the CFP stresses the need for approval of the proposals we presented yesterday on Professor's World Day, which would respond to some of the most serious problems affecting them and therefore to public school. We have proposed and urged that the measures for the revision of the recruitment scheme be approved so that all those who have three or more years of service can enter the career; that the proposals be approved so that uncontracted teachers do not yet have to pay to work, ensuring that housing and travel supplements, among others; that progress is made towards the reversal of internal mobility processes, considering full and incomplete times; that this Parliament will contribute to the end of economic obstacles to career progression and that the CFP measures are approved to ensure that all working time is accounted for for for social security. Without forgetting the necessary recruitment and the end of the precariousness of all public school workers, we believe that these proposals can reverse the problems, and we believe that without effective measures such as these that the CFP presents the problems of the school will not only continue to worsen, with a less attractive teaching profession. It is time to turn from the problem-finding to its resolution and we take advantage of this debate to appeal to the other political forces that are consequent when the proposals set out above are voted on. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u80	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to record the presence in the gallery of representatives of this petition, to whom the Bureau presents its compliments. You have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Miguel Arrobas, to whom the Bureau congratulates in its first speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is with great pleasure that I am here and in this first speech I could not fail to greet you, Ex.a, all Members and Members and, in your own person, all those who make this House of Democracy every day. I also begin by complimenting the petitioners, the S.T.O.P. , and to say that, when analyzed this petition, it is to emphasize that the CDS is not against classes with fewer students or classes that can be divided, we are in favour of each director, in the exercise of his autonomy, deciding to organize the classes and curricular and pedagogical processes of his school as better understanding. But what would be involved in this reduction of students by class? Building more schools, creating more classrooms, in times of demographic contraction, is something that should lead us to reflect. It tells us that, in this area, the size of classes, within reasonable limits, does not have a great influence on the quality of learning. So why does this government not go from theory to action and let the educational structures of schools decide? Be the class, on a case-by-case basis, the number of students per class (according to pedagogical intent), the characteristics of their students, the year of schooling, etc. , setting limits, for example, through the determination of a teacher/student ratio? Does it make sense to be the Ministry of Education to decide, centrally, that all classes in the country have the same size? The CDS doesn't think so. We defend, yes, that this is an exclusive responsibility for the pedagogical structures of schools. For both students and their families, this central administrative fixation is not the best solution. As for the rejuvenation of the teaching class and the dignity of non-teaching staff, it is something that the CDS believes to be a matter of deep reflection and that deserves an extended consensus and decision. The question of the retirement of teachers from higher education cannot fail to comply with their very own and specific working conditions. Teachers provide a demanding and fundamental public service, with working conditions long ago in profound change and evolution, in addition to taking on a role that is multi-purpose and of increasing responsibility. It's a long and worn-out career. It is still a less prestigious and increasingly devalued career. It is the CDS' understanding that there is a need for serious reflection on the specificities of its career and therefore it is justified that it is decided, defined and distinguished its retirement regime through a balanced solution that also meets the current financial context. This position is, it is understood, both for teachers and for other professional classes and it should be remembered that as early as 2006 in the Government of the Socialist Party, Decree-Law No 229 / 2005 eliminated multiple bonus schemes and exceptions as well as the pension system, within the framework of the convergence between the General Pension Fund and the social security system. If there is anything in which neither we nor anyone can have any doubts, we will certainly have good teachers, motivated, experienced and trained for your great mission to train and educate our children. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u82	For an intervention, Mrs Martina Jesus of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we appreciate Petition No 109 / XIV / 1. the, by reducing the number of students by class, by rejuvenation of the teaching class and by the dignity of non-teaching staff in schools, and we would like to greet the petitioners. The promotion of school success is one of the primary objectives outlined in the XXI Constitutional Government Programme of the Portuguese Republic. This will only be achieved in an inclusive and qualitative perspective, without neglecting the necessary measures leading to the success of the entire teaching and learning process. This petition is based on a wide range of questions relating to public school: the reduction in the number of students per class; the teaching condition, referring to aging, exhaustion and precariousness; and the lack of non-teaching staff, including operational, technical and psychologist assistants. Let us therefore consider each of these points, beginning with the reduction in the number of students per class. We have come to realize this reduction, which has been progressive, as programmed, beginning in the early years of cycle and progressing gradually, so as not to compromise the pedagogical continuity and covering both scientific and humanistic courses, both professional courses, and artistic courses specialized in public educational institutions. This strategy of progressive reduction of the number of students per class has produced results. Currently, the maximum number of students per class is only reached in less than half of the classes constituted and, generally, this happens only in regions with higher population pressure. The reduction in the number of students per class, which has been applied, has very concrete and measurable effects. For example, according to the data transmitted to the Education Commission of this House of the Republic, in the spring year 2019 / 2020, the direct effect of this measure was more than 1727 classes than in the previous school year. It should be recalled that, assuming the educational objectives of this measure, the reduction in the number of students per class was, from the outset, addressed primarily to the priority educational territories of intervention, because it was assumed to meet, firstly, the situations where the socioeconomic contexts are most weighed down. The reduction in the number of students per class has been accompanied by an increase in the number of teachers in public school, stressing the recent reinforcement, carried out through the hourly credit and tutoring, with more than 3300, equivalent in full-time, which represents a reinforcement of teachers available to schools since the beginning of the school year. As regards the problem of the lack of non-teaching staff, as a set of problems, it should be recalled that the hiring of more than 5000 operational assistants is under way, to be operationalized by schools, to be added to the reinforcements previously carried out, and again in this government cycle the so-called 'portaria dos racios' is being reviewed in compliance with the State budget for the current year. This whole movement represents a continuous and significant reinforcement of non-teaching staff at the service of public school. As to the alleged lack of technicians and psychologists, and without having the intention to say that nothing else can be done, what is certain is that, in order to implement the personal, social and community development plans of the National School Success Promotion Program, more than 900 specialized technicians from different areas, especially psychologists, were hired with other profiles: mediators, social workers, speech therapists, artists, sociocultural animators, occupational therapists. As regards the appreciation of these professionals, it should also be recalled that, through the PREVPAP(Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precincts in Public Administration ), more than 1000 psychologists and other specialized technicians were integrated into the Public Administration, in the superior technical career, in a continuing work to combat precariousness, a concern of valuing decent work that has also covered operational assistants and teachers, with the 11,000 links to the frameworks that have already been realized in this government cycle. There is a problem of teaching aging, exhaustion, need for renewal, it is true. It is known, because it is public, that the Government of the Socialist Party continues to work on a solution to this fundamental issue, namely by building a new model of selection and teaching recruitment for public school that gives more stability to teachers and also to schools and educational projects. In any case, it should be noted that we never lose sight of the need to promote the stability of the professional exercise of teachers, as can be seen from the results of the placement of teachers in the current school year, with a greater integration of teachers in the teaching area frames compared to the homologous period of last year. Because education is the cornerstone for the development of human beings and for the progress of humanity, we recognize that much has been done. We know that the road is still long and demanding, but we believe that we are in the right direction for the construction of a fair and inclusive public school for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u84	Mr António Cunha, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the Union of All Teachers ( S.T.O.P. ) , the ComRegras and all petitioners. Yesterday the World Teacher's Day and, on behalf of the PSD, I would like to warmly greet all teachers who contribute to the education and training of our children and young people in our country's schools and who, with professionalism, dedication and commitment, fight daily for a public school of quality for all. We seriously believe in the professional value and social role of teachers, the importance of the dignity of the conditions of teaching exercise, the value of the autonomy of schools and we are seriously concerned about the structural problem of the lack of teachers, especially in certain areas of the country, with Lisbon and Tejo Valley and Algarve at the head, and in some recruitment groups, such as ICT (Information and Communication Technologies), Geography, Physics and Chemicals, English and Mathematics. In fact, it is public that, just as in the last two years, there will again be classes that will not take classes on some of these disciplines throughout the whole year. It is news that about 100 000 students are without all the teachers assigned and school directors say that in January next year this situation will worsen. Six years ago, the Minister of Protection had no competence to present solutions to this serious problem, nor to the problem of the ageing of the teaching class, nor to the lack of appeal of the teaching career. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u86	What you've done is propaganda to every budget of the passing state. In 2020, he entered funds for the development of teaching functions in areas of the country where the supply of professionals is scarce. It is appropriate to ask: where and when were the funds for these incentives executed? In the Budget for 2021, he entered funds for incentives to reconcile the professional and family life of teachers. What incentives have they been and how much have they cost? There isn't! Let's see what comes here for the next State Budget. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government are not concerned about promoting the attractiveness of teaching careers, their rejuvenation or their social valorization. By 2024, it is very likely that some 41,000 teachers and educators will be reformed and since 2016 the National Council of Education has been alerting to this very serious problem. What does the government do? He's pushing his belly. Total irresponsibility! In fact, with this Minister of Education, everything that concerns the teaching class is stuck. Recruitment, promised in 2015, is jammed; professional development is jammed; the unburocratization of teaching function is jammed; the evaluation of teacher performance, mediocratic, is jammed; continuous training is jammed. Everything is jammed and no political action or will of this Minister — which is also stuck! — to unblock them. Regarding the demand for a reduction in the number of students per class, we have already said, the PSD argues that the organization of classes, the distribution criteria of students by classes and their size should be the sole responsibility of the pedagogical structures of schools, and that there may be classes of variable size depending on the characteristics of their students. What scientific practice and evidence have shown is that fixing the number of students administratively and at central level is not the best solution. For non-teaching staff, so essential in our schools, despite what the Government says, there is still a lack of assistants. But the Minister of Education always announces thousands of open vacancies, confusing the change in link with the job actually created. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Mr President, I recall that for the 2021 State Budget, the PSD proposed that the Government should publish quarterly a summary of the movements of workers, in the central and local administration, to perform functions in schools, so that we could know, clearly, by career and by way of linkage, the actual flows of entry and exits of workers, so that this House could monitor, as it is responsible for it. But the left voted in block against this proposal. The question remains: why? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u87	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by complimenting the petitioners and the petitioners, as well as the Union of All Teachers, as well as by remembering the day we celebrated yesterday, the World Teacher's Day. Here we have another petition that alerts to structural problems in educational policies in the country, drawing attention to the fundamental role of teachers and teachers in the construction of a quality educational system. We're talking about specialized and multifaceted agents. This is a petition that once again brings us an alert to the need for class rejuvenation policies, which value the profession in order to ensure the attractiveness for motivated young people, who wish to exercise the teaching with adequate conditions and not with the vulnerability to which all those who have been subject, from a few years to this part, have entered this profession. We are also talking about the importance of reducing the number of students per class. Despite what she told us, the Socialist Party's Member is well aware that the policies that the Government has had do not bring a structural response or follow the demands of the educational communities regarding the reduction of the number of students per class, so I can not fail to mention it. We are well aware that a quality school has as its basic response its human resources, which, in addition to stability, require appreciation, respect and professional recognition. Of course, we cannot forget the operational assistants, who also play an essential role but are often forgotten by the government, still in situations of great instability, without access, for example, to a training schedule tailored to needs. The truth is that this petition brings us, once again, the alert to the demands and concerns of education professionals, without forgetting, of course, what would be the most basic, that the Government would genuinely dialogue with these professionals, in order to find solutions for the valorization of the teaching career, for the implementation of fairer competitions, in particular with regard to internal mobility, the linkage of all teachers with three or more years of service and the remuneration of displaced or relocated teachers. The NAP has brought here a number of proposals, which have not been followed, have not collected the agreement of the Socialist Party, PSD, CDS, IL and Arrival. I would therefore like to leave here the challenge that can effectively be made in this House with regard to educational policies and, on our part, we will continue to put forward proposals and urge the Government to follow up on the demands of these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u89	Since the Bureau no longer requests for intervention by the political forces that still have time available, this item on our agenda is now concluded. We move on to point four, which consists of the assessment of Petition No 140 / XIV / 2. a ( Daniel José Henriques Martins et al.) — To preserve the Carnaxide greenhouse, together with Resolution Projects Nos 754 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Classification of Carnaxide saw as a protected landscape, 772 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the classification of Carnaxide greenhouse as a protected landscape, 782 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Visa the classification of Carnaxide saw as a protected landscape, 802 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government classify the Carnaxide saw as a protected landscape, 1169 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the safeguarding and exploitation of Carnaxide greenhouse, 1196 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government protect the Carnaxide greenhouse and 1246 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By preserving the Carnaxide greenhouse and its enjoyment by the populations. More information that are present, in the galleries, representatives of the petition, than the Bureau greets. Let us then begin the debate with the presentation of the initiative of Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :Initiate intervention to greet petitioners and the various initiatives of citizens and citizens for often guiding us and giving us the energy needed for a greater fight for environmental justice. And I welcome them today, especially because they have encouraged us to enter legislative initiatives to classify Carnaxide's greenhouse as a protected landscape. The Serra de Carnaxide is a natural green corridor, which has been threatened for several years by the advance of numerous urban projects, licensed by the municipalities of Oeiras and the Amadora. It is a space of enormous ecological and environmental importance of biodiversity, soil quality, water circulation, wind regulation and that still contains paleolithic heritage, Roman heritage and 18th century heritage, classified as a monument of public interest. It is our responsibility today to ensure the natural and cultural integrity of the Carnaxide greenhouse.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u91	You now have the floor, on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, of course, the Left Block Parliamentary Group wishes to greet the thousands of people who have joined around this petition, whose defence movement around Carnaxide's greenhouse has indeed been a central point in protecting the environment and heritage for these three councils involved. When we talk about Carnaxide's greenhouse, we talk about a greenhouse that occupies an area of about 600 hectares of high ecological, aesthetic and landscape value. Its location allows the ecological union between two areas of high environmental value: on the one hand, the Monsanto greenhouse, subject to the total forest regime, and the Sintra greenhouse, integrated in Sintra-Cascais Natural Park. Thus, Carnaxide greenhouse is an ecological corridor, which enables connectivity between important ecosystems of classified areas, contributing to the preservation of fauna, flora and other biodiversity of the coastal edge. when it is located in the confluence of three municipalities of high population density — Oeiras, Amadora and Sintra —, the Carnaxide greenhouse allows a variety of benefits for public health and the environment. Similarly, the historical and cultural heritage of the Carnaxide greenhouse is also of great relevance. There are records of vestiges of prehistoric and Roman occupation, in which include the late-Roman Casal of the Carnaxide greenhouse, but also through there passes the Carnaxide Aqueduct, with its Mother d’ Water and circular airways, inserted in an 18th century water supply system, of baroque and neoclassical style, classified as a monument of public interest. Despite having this valuable ecological, geomorphological, aesthetic, landscape, historical and cultural heritage, the values of Carnaxide's greenhouse are now threatened by urban advance and real estate pressure, which gets worse every day. This year, even on March 19, already in the full state of emergency, a backhoe entered one of the five fronts of SkyCity's work, one of the future housing and apartment enterprises, near the geodesic landmark of Carnaxide, without looking at either fauna or flora. But there are also plans for other major projects, such as the Aquaterra Masterplan, Jackyl, British real estate company, which provides for a real estate project with a commercial centre, sports town of Sport Lisboa and Benfica — a contract, in fact, made 11 years ago with the Oeiras Authority – which includes the flag of martial arts and gymnastics, camp of riguebi, swimming pool, sports pavilion, football field, restaurant, meeting center, etc. etc. , and a parking silo with 540 seats for cars. in the same way, the urbanization Alta Montanha has also caused controversy because it is located around the geodesic frame of Carnaxide, which, together with the Farol da Gibalta, in Caxias, next to the line of the train, and the Farol do Esteiro, in the forest of the National Stadium, on the Quebrada Cross, helped, in times, the boats that wanted to enter the bar. It is for all this value and for all that has been said here that measures are necessary, from our point of view, to protect the Carnaxide greenhouse, thus classifying it as a protected landscape, which should thus allow the protection and valorization of its heritage and enjoyment by the population, as well as the adoption of measures compatible with the objectives of safeguarding its values. And if so far the local powers have not been able to guarantee the protection of this heritage, then it will be up to Parliament to decide for this protection and real estate interests cannot in fact be above environmental protection. Mr President, judging by the number of initiatives currently under discussion, which we welcome, we can only hope that the protection of the Carnaxide greenhouse will become a reality very quickly, confirming the importance of this debate and also the work that has been done over the years by citizens and citizens around this movement, to which the fight against climate change must also take into account, from a local point of view, the protection of these corridors. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u93	We now turn to the intervention of the Green Party. Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Carnaxide saw, with about 600 ha, covers all three municipalities, Amadora, Oeiras and Sintra. This is an area of presence and good food for the local fauna, especially for birds of prey, and, in its arboreal vegetation, there are several examples, namely, of soft pine, sour, strawberry or bead, in addition to various types of flora, such as wild orchid or divine root. This greenhouse has fertile soils, due to its geological composition and abundant presence of water, being inserted into the volcanic complex of Lisbon, at 72 million years old, being the basalt to the rock that dominates, to which clay deposits are associated. In addition to the intrinsic value of its environmental heritage, the Carnaxide greenhouse is a green structure between Sintra and Monsanto Park in Lisbon, constituting the only natural green spot with capacity for the formation of a robust ecological corridor, associated with the natural and naturalized areas mentioned. With traces of the paleolithic period, its historical-cultural value is relevant. in this greenhouse, pass the Aqueduct of Carnaxide and the Aqueduct of the French, visible to the surface through its skylights and the Mother of Water, heritage of the 18th century. This is a small summary of the values and the importance of the preservation of the Carnaxide greenhouse, which, due to its privileged location, has been the target of constant threats to the implementation of urban projects that disfigure and decharacterize this entire area, some of them already built or in construction paths. It is necessary to define what is intended to do from the Carnaxide greenhouse: its urbanization, including the greenhouse in the strong urban pressure of the context in which it is inserted, ignoring the promises of preservation and conservation of nature in the name of the mitigation of climate change; or its preservation and valorization as a natural space, aggregator of biodiversity and promoter of quality of life, breaking the pressure of the bulky construction existing around it. The first option is disastrous. When it is evident the need for natural spaces, in urban context, for mitigation and adaptation to the phenomenon of climate change, it is urgent to gather efforts to preserve and value all that space, from the point of view of its environmental and architectural heritage and as an area of enjoyment by the population for observation of species, for the practice of sport, for leisure, always with respect for the heritage there and in order to ensure the preservation and valorization of the greenhouse as a natural space. Many have been those who have persistently called attention to the threats that the Carnaxide saw is target and to the need to add efforts and desires for its preservation. The Greens Ecological Party has been an active voice in this regard over the years, valuing the work of the Carnoxide Conservation Movement — which I take advantage of to greet through the elements present here — and is very active in its purposes, the document The Conservation of Carnoxide Mountain — an imperative for the quality of life of populations, the reduction of climate risks and sustainable development, quite enlightening about this need, and also the request to preserve Carnoxide Serra, which we are discussing today and which we use to greet the more than 5000 subscribers. The Greens therefore consider it urgent for the Government to develop the necessary procedures for the Carnaxide greenhouse to obtain the protection status of protected landscape, in order to ensure restrictions to the fury of urban construction, preserving its ecological, environmental, landscape, aesthetic, historical and cultural value, inserted into its local identity. It is this proposal that we bring in the form of a draft resolution, to which we call for its approval. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u95	To participate in the debate and present the initiative on behalf of your parliamentary group, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners who mobilized more than 5000 signatures around the protection of Carnaxide saw, a heritage that, as we have heard here today, is undoubtedly unique. In fact, it is enough that any or any of us visit this place to realize the importance of its preservation. Alongside the Monsanto Forest Park or Sintra's own greenhouse, this is one of the most relevant discounts in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, being crucial if we want to preserve the few green spaces, or what remains of them, we ensure that these green spots are in fact preserved in urban areas. Despite the important role these spaces continue to play, which contribute to the improvement of air quality, both for the quality of life of the populations, for public health, for the proper regularization of water resources and temperature, unfortunately today, the greenhouse is deeply threatened by the development and voracity with which urban projects have invaded it. In fact, this greenhouse is an ecosystem with unique characteristics, which houses 237 species. As regards flora, it has significance, including species of conservation considered vulnerable or other protected both by national and international legislation of the European Union. Even with regard to fauna, the presence of the peregrine falcon stands out, a species with vulnerability status in Portugal. We must also point out that it is by virtue of a policy of concreteization and a total lack of vision of what must be the present and future of our cities that the Carnaxide mountain has been threatened and has been allowed to cut, radically, what could be a true ecological corridor, connecting not only Monsanto to the Carnaxide mountain and even to the Sintra mountain, thus allowing even a connection with the sea, which unfortunately has been put into full question. There is also in Carnaxide greenhouse, as we could also hear here today, a vast archaeological and architectural heritage of great value, such as the Carnaxide Aqueduct and the French Aqueduct, buildings dating back to the eighteenth century and classified as a monument of public interest. In addition, this is a clear space for the enjoyment of families and sports, alongside other activities, of people who want to maintain the preservation of the existing shrub and fauna there. But, ignoring all this, real estate pressure and urban advance are jeopardizing the integrity of Carnaxide's greenhouse and, in voracity, have put in place various planning and planning instruments of the territory, such as the Regional Planning Plan of the Territory, the Municipal Directors Plans of Amadora, Oeiras and Sintra and the national ecological and agricultural reserves, instruments that have not been able to protect this natural area. Furthermore, the total built area more than five times increased between 1988 and 2020 from 22 ha in 1988 to 102 ha in 2020. As if not enough, two new urbanizations have already been approved: the Marconi Parque and SkyCity ventures. What is happening in the Carnaxide greenhouse is an irreparable path, a path that does not link us with the challenge of our times: the fight against climate change, for which green spots are absolutely essential. And if it is not stopped in time, ensuring an adequate classification of the greenhouse, particularly as a Protected Landscape, we will be able to do much or little in the future and we will, in fact, leave a very heavy invoice not only to the municipality of Oeiras, but also to the entire national territory. The destruction of the Carnaxide greenhouse contradicts all the principles of habitat preservation, species and ecosystems and also the values of mitigation and adaptation to climate change, which is urgently needed. That is why today the NAP accompanies the petitioners, that is why we present this draft resolution which aims to ensure that the Government classifies the Carnaxide greenhouse as a Protected Landscape and implements the mechanisms necessary for its preservation. In addition, we believe that monitoring should be strengthened to prevent incorrect waste disposal and kinetic activity in places of public use, near housing areas, which is clearly incomprehensible for all reasons.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u97	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u98	I really am concluding, Mr President. I end by thanking the petitioners, but also allow them to say the following: I myself had the opportunity to be in Carnaxide's greenhouse — indeed, I had the unhappiness of falling in that greenhouse — and I do not regret, at any time, that I have gone there, because, without a doubt, we all have to look at this unique and natural space, a heritage that we must leave to future generations. [[Congrats from the PAN Deputy Bebiana Cunha.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Member. We regret, of course, the remaining. You now have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not the first time that we have discussed in the Assembly of the Republic the safeguarding and exploitation of the Carnaxide greenhouse. The importance of this theme is mirrored in the more than 5,000 petitioners, whom I greet in the person of Daniel Henriques Martins, who have come together and warned about issues that are more than ever pressing. Today, it is undeniable « that climate change is real and human activities are its main cause ». Who says so is the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. In this regard, the Secretary-General of the United Nations ( United Nations ), António Guterres, has insisted on the idea that the battle against climate change can be won, and that is why we all need to assume it. The battle against climate change is a battle of all — of all generations, of all citizens. There are many studies that point to the importance of the change in the management of the territory due to numerous climate changes and its impact on Portuguese territory. This is the fundamental reason for looking at this problem with the certainty that we have to find new ways to manage cities. But the new form must take into account some assumptions that a rule of law cannot question. Most of the projects under review suggest the classification of Carnaxide greenhouse as Protected Area of Regional or Local Scope. These projects have the merit of calling political discussion the fate of the greenhouse. However, we should remember that this classification is the responsibility of the municipalities. This is not of any lesser importance. Let us therefore be serious in our analysis. We don't promise what we can't promise. In order for Carnaxide greenhouses to be classified as Protected Area, it is necessary for municipal bodies, democratically elected, to propose this classification. It is with the legitimacy of the vote that the authorities decide the destination of their territories. That is how the legislation determines this process. Only after this conclusion can the inclusion in the National Protected Areas Network be considered. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is in this context of seriousness in the proposals that we bring, for the absolute respect for the powers of the authorities and in respect of the concerns and concerns of the many who have signed the petition, that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, after an extended set of hearings, proposes that the Government, firstly, promote the safeguarding and valorization of Carnaxide's greenhouse, by collaborating in the construction of the most appropriate tools for the management of the greenhouse, ensuring that the non-urbanized and uncompromising space in the existing legal framework is an area of safeguard and preservation of nature. Secondly, that the ICNF ( Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests) and the CCDR-LVT ( Commission for Regional Coordination and Development of Lisbon and Tejo Valley ) provide all technical support to the authorities of Amadora, Oeiras and Sintra, with the provision of information to support the realization of a diagnosis and a survey of natural and landscaped values, particularly at the level of flora, fauna and geology present in the Carnaxide greenhouse. I will then end with the appeal to all actors to find common solutions that guarantee our children and our grandchildren a more sustainable territory that is compatible with the objectives that everyone is all talking about. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u101	The PSD also has a legislative initiative on this subject and to present it in this debate Mr Alexandre Poço has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin this speech by congratulating and greeting the petitioners who have fought in defense of the Carnaxide saw. The Serra de Carnaxide, located between Sintra and Monsanto Forest Park, is, as has already been shown today, an important natural area of the Lisbon region. It has about 600 ha and is located in the intersection of three municipalities: Oeiras, Amadora and Sintra. The forest area deserves to be noted for its extension and for integrating a relevant diversity of trees, more than 200 species of flora and also fauna, with emphasis on falcon-peregrine. Another size of this territory is underground water resources, which also served to supply Lisbon through the Aqueduct of Free Waters. The sources that existed in the greenhouse were captured through a branch known as Aqueduct of the French, built in the basement with the extension of 4200 m, bringing the water by gravity to Buraca, where it was connected to the general aqueduct. It was also in this space built the Carnaxide Aqueduct, with about 600 m in length, which took the water to the nearest population, serving the population of that space. The Aqueduct of Carnaxide is classified as a Monument of Public Interest and the Aqueduct of the French is classified as a National Monument. Carnaxide greenhouse, as a green area, also contributes to air quality and temperature regulation, in a territorial context of high urban density. Real estate pressure has grown in the surrounding area, as has already been said here, and, for example, at the top of the greenhouse, on the side belonging to the municipality of Amadora, large areas of urbanization have been approved, with emphasis on two enterprises, which will cause greater fragmentation of the habitats and waterproof the soils, with impact on the hydrological conditions of the entire area. The PSD Parliamentary Group, in the draft resolution presented here today is discussed, defends the protection and preservation of the environmental, ecological and heritage of the Carnaxide greenhouse as a Protected Landscape, through the consultation of the three authorities, whose territory has covered and whose strategies have been different in relation to the protection or deprotection of the greenhouse, as is evidenced by the lotting of the northern part of the greenhouse. In the immediate future, it is also urgent to ensure that the sectoral studies on the built, landscaped and environmental heritage are developed throughout the Carnaxide mountain range, as well as the preservation by the local authorities of the soil, flora and fauna, and that the reforestation of the area is intensified, the greenhouse treery and the entire area is equipped with the best conditions for its use as a park with high environmental and cultural value. The defense of Carnaxide's greenhouse is an imperative of all and it is also a commitment of the Democratic Social Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u103	I now give the floor to Mrs Alma Rivera to present the legislative initiative of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Much has already been said about Carnaxide's greenhouse, but it must be stressed that the subject would hardly be brought to this plenary and would mobilize several proposals without the involvement, activism and availability of petitioners and in particular of the Carnaxide Mountain Conservation Movement. We greet them so that they do not lower their arms. The CFP presents a draft resolution because a serious mistake is being made that will affect populations and the environment. On several occasions when we faced the Government with the options that were being taken for that area, for example, at a regiment hearing, the Minister for the Environment was clear when he gave up any responsibilities or interest in acting on this issue. Therefore, today it is really important that a consensus be reached and, above all, that consensus be translated into the action of the Executive, since environmental and social values already stated are at stake, which deserve protection in the first place. What is discussed, in the background, is whether our territories, if the territory concerned, if the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon — if we want to extrapolate for structural options — need more construction, luxurious residential enterprises, with gymnasium and shopping centre, or if, on the contrary, we need to protect green spots, we need more green areas, we need their potential for climate regulation, regulation of harmful gases for humans and they make the greenhouse effect. Finally, if we need these spaces as catalysts for leisure, physical exercise and harmony with nature, or if we let the Carnaxide saw be destroyed. It is on these concrete issues that the present and the future are decided. It is not the big strawberries that change air quality or emissions, but the decisions that are made on the ground. That is why we join the petitioners in saying that it is necessary to prevent the destruction of what is already done by nature, to prevent the destruction of a natural carbon sink, which constitutes the only green space between Monsanto's Forest Park and Sintra's greenhouse and which forms a very important ecological corridor. What is at stake is whether it is necessary to take protective measures against extreme phenomena, such as fillings, or whether those with decision-making power feel comfortable by ruining the water storage capacity of that soil; if biodiversity is uprooted, building on the ecosystem associated with the Carnaxide greenhouse or preserving it; if it becomes clear from the architectural and historical heritage classified and we place very exclusive condominiums on it or if, on the contrary, we correspond the actions to the words, preserving the Carnaxide saw with a public enjoyment project by the population. from the PCP, we have no doubt: it is crucial to preserve the Carnaxide greenhouse and allow its free enjoyment by the population, with projects truly called for for the preservation and valorization of that natural heritage, also raising environmental education, so necessary. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u105	Even at the end of Mr Alexandre Poço's speech, the Bureau registered a request for clarification from the Socialist Party, but in the management of intervention times it was impossible to follow up that request. Let us now—and with an apology to the PS Parliamentary Group—follow this request. You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mrs Rita Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the concern about the environment and the legacy that we will leave to who happens to us tomorrow is something that owes us all to galvanize, enthusiasm and motivate us to do more and better. If there is a subject, if there is a plan, if there is a purpose for which it is worth fighting, this will certainly be. So it is comforting to know that many are attentive, that many are aware. So I too — and again, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group — greet, thank and address my congratulations to all the dynamizers and subscribers of the petition to preserve the Carnaxide saw. A fair and balanced land planning policy must be guided by respect for biodiversity and sustainability, respect for our architectural and archaeological heritage, preserve the ecosystem, while ensuring the well-being and quality of life of our population and fulfil the old legal obligations. Today, we defend here Carnaxide's greenhouse, but we could be defending any other greenhouse, any other piece of land that, due to its morphological characteristics, can contribute to a better quality of the environment and thus to a better quality of life. We all agree with the need for a new look at these important parcels of territory, for these small green spots of our cities, for these significant portions of pure air. Today, we all understand, we all know of the urgency and imperative to find solutions that can integrate the past, the present and the future, but it is not always an easy and equitable path. We know that there are old commitments, some over 25 years old, assumed by whom, at the time, had this competence and at a time when there was no consciousness that we all have today. Especially for that area there are several approved territorial management instruments, which have created legitimate expectations. There are acquired rights of owners who are third parties in good faith, there are erected buildings and there are projects. These are the dimensions we are debating here today. I would like to ask Mr Alexandre Pozo: how is it that, with today's awareness of what our legacy will be for future generations, we will fulfil the commitments that others, in other functions, also legitimate and legitimate, have taken before us? What to do with these rights of good faith third parties, some of them acquired before 1996? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u107	You have the floor to answer this request for clarification, Mr Alexandre Poço, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u108	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, I welcome you for your speech. I am sure that, as times progress naturally, concerns in certain areas — and in particular in this area — have been gaining particular importance in our society. What we cannot do in this debate is decontextualize the decisions of those who made them, in particular with regard to the amendments to the PDM (Municipal Director Plan) of the Amadora City Council and the detailed plans. I accompany Mrs Deputy when she tells me that in 2021 there is a greater environmental awareness, that there is a greater sensitivity for the ecological and environmental preservation of all spaces, including the Carnaxide greenhouse. I'd say until that's a truth from La Palice! What we cannot do in a debate that if we want to be serious is, as we have heard recently in the intervention of the Portuguese Communist Party, to pretend that we have no responsibility in the history of these areas. She exists. What is up to us today, whether we are in Parliament or the local authorities, which have a particular relevance in this case, because it involves the decisions of three municipalities, is to ensure that concreteization — which, today, some criticize, but which in the past had a great responsibility in the lottery that exists today in the northern part of the greenhouse — does not continue. Therefore, I follow your concern, when it says that times change, consciences change and our environmental concern also changes. What is important in this debate around Carnaxide greenhouse is not to forget, for example, who changed the MDP of the Amador City Chamber and what were the detailed plans in the 1990s. I believe that it is important that this frontality exists in the context of the debate that is being held in this House. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u109	We resumed the registration order for the interventions of the political forces that did not present draft resolution in this context. The next intervention is the work of Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative. Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall obviously begin by welcoming the thousands of petitioners who have brought us this issue of defense of Carnaxide's greenhouse, especially because of the persistence with which they have done so, which has led to today's debate, because we are, in the Liberal Initiative, in favour of preserving the heritage as well as natural, culturally, of Carnaxide's greenhouse and we recognize the importance of the creation of the green corridor that integrates this saw into an axis that passes through Jamor, through Monsanto and the Carregueira. But there are two or three aspects which have been insufficiently emphasized during this debate, the first of which concerns the effective involvement of the communities, whether through their clubs, their local associations, the citizens themselves, so that we can promote the safeguard and enjoyment of the Carnaxide greenhouse, as we want to preserve it. The second little topic is that it is not enough to classify, it is not enough to preserve from a legal point of view, it is necessary to know technically what is being done. from our point of view, this should go through a technical study conducted by the ICNF, not only about what we have to preserve, specifically, in the Carnaxide greenhouse, but also how we can do it. Thirdly, one issue that has been brought only now at the end of the debate is the protection of the legitimate rights of landowners who belong to this space, something which, in our view, is not sufficiently safeguarded by the projects under discussion. Still, we will vote in favour of the draft resolutions that may allow the pursuit of the objective of protection of the Carnaxide greenhouse,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u111	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u112	... of the greenhouse integrated into this green axis, in the form we consider most appropriate, with clear and protected management instruments with people and for the benefit of people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u113	Mr Pedro Morais Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one last speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Congratulation, in the person of the first subscriber, Daniel Henriques Martins, the petitioners of this initiative on the Carnaxide greenhouse and I thank the parties who presented various draft resolutions on this subject. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of Carnaxide greenhouse has nothing to do with the real estate intentions that fall upon this greenhouse,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u115	Oh, no? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u116	... but, yes, with the absence of legal or regulatory protection. Lack of legal protection, since classification as a protected landscape is lacking, and there is no regulatory protection, since, in the various PDMs of the municipalities concerned, there are no limitations, PDMs, these, which, in fact, foresee the construction or even urbanization plans in that territory. The CDS believes that an urgent strategy must be defined to meet the preservation of the natural goods of Carnaxide greenhouse, also safeguarding the rights established under the law and the territorial management instruments in force. But it is also urgent to define a strategy for the protection of the forest area and of the various species, as it has also been said, such as the suriro, the zambojeiro, among many others. It is also urgent to define a strategy for the protection of flora and fauna. There are many existing species that are classified and habitat is also important for many bird species. from the part of the CDS, makes the whole sense the classification of the Carnaxide greenhouse as a protected area, since verified, I repeat, since the assumptions of this same classification were verified. It is necessary to implement a strategy with green corridors, like what happens with the Monsanto Forest Park, protection of the arboreal and more control over the activities that can cause environmental damage in the Carnaxide greenhouse — there are countless discharges of urban waste made in this Carnaxide greenhouse. There must indeed be greater scrutiny. Finally, Mr President, I would say that it is also up to the local authorities, therefore Oeiras and Amadora, to define this same definition, through their territorial management instruments, for the legal and regulatory protection of Carnaxide greenhouses. [[Congrats from the CDS-PP Member Miguel Arrobas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u117	Since no more entries are recorded, we move to the last point of our agenda today, which deals with the debate of Petition No 114 / XIV / 1. a ( APDP-Associación protectiona dos Diabetices de Portugal ) — How many are we with type 1 diabetes? , together with Resolution Projects Nos 1066 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Creation of a national register of type 1 diabetes, 1213 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Creation of the national register of patients with type 1 diabetes, 1256 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Concretization of a national register of type 1 and 1443 / XIV / 2 diabetes. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the creation and implementation of a single national register of type 1 diabetes in Portugal. I am aware that representatives of the petitioners are present at the gallery, which, of course, we welcome. To begin this debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, the thousands of petitioners who address the Assembly of the Republic, once again, and still well. If you allow me, among these thousands of petitioners, especially the Protective Association of Diabetics of Portugal, the Mellitus Child Association, the Diabetic Group, the Portuguese Society of Diabetics, the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics and the Portuguese Society of Internal Medicine, which are some of the first and main petitioners, to whom we thank not only the petition and the opportunity to be discussing this subject, but also the work they have done, in relation to diabetes, people with diabetes and especially people with diabetes type 1, which, as they say, is much less prevalent, much less publicly known and, in many cases, is even more demanding for the person with diabetes. They are tendenly much younger people, often still diagnosed in childhood or youth, who are forced to receive several insulin injections per day, being insulin-dependent, and to a very important and very difficult self-monitoring and self-control in many cases. We have followed what the various petitioners bring to this House, what these various associations and societies have come to produce and do in relation to diabetes — especially type 1 diabetes — and, I believe, that, on the side of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, we have also given a response and made a legislative proposal to meet a common objective, at least between the Left Block Parliamentary Group and these associations and societies, which is to guarantee a better quality of life and that this disease, especially with regard to type 1 diabetes, can be better controlled to avoid various complications in the future. It was in this sense that we have been presenting a legislative initiative for a few years in 2016 to ensure that the so-called ‘insulin pumps’ are dispensed free of charge up to 18 years. I believe that this program, which has been effectively applied, has only had positive results on the control of this disease and we will probably understand its results in this population, because, perhaps, many health complications will be controlled, from a few years to a number of years. It has been because of this that we have also been insisting on other measures, such as the extension of this free availability of insulin pumps over 18 years of age with type 1 diabetes, which is not yet met, even though it has already been included in the State budget. However, a new technology called artificial pancreas is still to be introduced in Portugal, as it continues to be a very important measure, which is to be introduced once and for all to replace the current insulin pumps with this new technology, in order to ensure an even greater control of this same disease by those with type 1 diabetes. In order to say that on the left side of the Block we have always had the full willingness to present legislative initiatives in this area and that we will continue to present legislative initiatives and insist on the Government to comply with the resolutions which have already been adopted by the Assembly of the Republic, for example, to extend the free of charge of insulin pumps. Now, what is proposed, through this petition, is that a national register is created to know better the reality of type 1 diabetes. It seems to us that this is a proposal of the greatest importance because, indeed, the country needs to know, concretely and in greater detail, what is the prevalence, the incidence, reality by region, etiology, the response to treatments, the results and outcomes of these same treatments, etc. To have a better approach, be it clinical, be it therapeutic, be it scientific, be it political, we need to know the reality better and not have data that are often dispersed through various hospitals, by various information systems. We really need this national registry to better address a disease that affects many people and is very serious. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u119	We moved on to the CFP. Mr. João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to begin this intervention by greeting the more than 4300 petitioners who have signed this petition and, also, the Association for the Protection of Diabetics of Portugal, for the initiative you had, thanks to which it was possible to bring to this House the discussion of so important a problem. If it were today, it would have to be more than 7,000 signatures. At the PSD and PS, subscriptions would not have been enough for us to be here today. This petition begins with a question that, as simple as it is, becomes uncomfortable: how many are we with type 1 diabetes? Today, that we are at a time when scientific and technological knowledge, the importance of knowing the population in what it has to do with its health, what data can be worked either in scientific terms or, in terms of clarification to the population, or even in terms of what it is possible to make decisions from that information, which is collected, worked and validated, we do not have the answer to such simple questions. But there are data, data that are insufficient, that need to be deepened, that need to be improved. Therefore, the PCP brings here a bill that aims to create the national registry of patients with type 1 diabetes. In fact, the data that exist are worrying: we have about 13 %, 6 % of the population with diabetes. About a million Portuguese people have diabetes, of which 56% are known, are diagnosed, and 44% don't know that they have diabetes, but they have diabetes. The truth is that for those who are not so sensitive to human suffering and to the difficulties and the quality of life because they pass on the person with diabetes, and who are more sensitive, perhaps, to expenditure and to material and economic value, more than EUR 1500 million per year is spent on diabetes at direct costs, about 10% of the State budget with health, about 1% of national GDP (gross domestic product). But tailor-made, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have increased the costs with diabetes monitoring and surveillance, have decreased the costs and costs with diabetes hospitalization: in 2 years, 2016 to 2018, less EUR 45 million has been spent, but only more than EUR 10 million has been spent with monitoring. Today, we must be very concerned, because with this silent pandemic that has worsened with the COVID-19 pandemic, with the lack of monitoring and surveillance of the patient with diabetes and its complications, we will probably have increased costs not only for health, but also for quality of life, for morbidity. It is therefore that the high prevalence of diabetes is a problem and that the multiplicity and severity of the chronic problems and complications associated with it are, quite frankly, the result of what has to do with monitoring and monitoring. Therefore, the diabetic foot, chronic kidney disease, diabetic retinopathy and many vascular situations are prevented and can be reduced in terms of the costs that result in morbidity, quality of life and premature death. Because those who lose a lower limb are at risk of losing the other member in the next two years and losing their lives in the next five years. Therefore, treatment of type 1 diabetes with insulin is the only way to treat it and we, PCP, also understand that the response in diabetes should be deepened. In type 1 diabetes, in addition to the national register to be created, improvements should also be created in the treatment, particularly with the already referred to as « artificial pancreas », which is only an upgrade of the insulin pump but which should be available and access to all those who meet the criteria to use it. But we must also have an answer to the conditions for access to annual reports, because in recent years publications have had very little quality, because only with great difficulty have they had access to these data. These data need to be in-depth. Access to scientifically proven medicines and technologies must also be improved, the most appropriate therapies must be made available to patients and there must be participation in the allocation of support products. Mrs. Members, to conclude today, one cannot continue to take the risk of a person with diabetes losing a foot, a leg or his life because he does not have access to a palm or suitable footwear. We need to fight this and that is done with investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u121	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u122	When we say that the patient is the center of attention, it is only if there is an investment in the National Health Service, with more technological means and with more professionals suitable to treat and prevent this disease. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u123	The next speaker is Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words are for, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, to welcome the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition that we are discussing — in particular, those who are with us today to accompany the work — and who are calling for the realization of a national register of type 1 diabetes, updated annually. Looking at the numbers, we realize that more than 13% of the Portuguese population has diabetes, which represents more than one million people. It is estimated, however, that the pre-diabetic framework can reach the two million Portuguese. Even according to the estimates, due to diabetes, more than 4000 Portuguese die annually, approximately 1500 amputations of the lower limbs occur and more than 7000 cases of stroke (brain vascular accident) occur. It is true that the National Diabetes Programme defines a set of strategies and measures relating to the prevention and reduction of risk factors, diagnosis and screening of the disease, appropriate treatment and rehabilitation of patients, however, the incidence continues to increase. Therefore, in view of this picture, a very specific and very demanding approach is required. It happens that in Portugal there is no single and common record for type 1 diabetes at all ages. This updated registry would allow a more coherent and structured approach and also, in depth, knowledge of the real dimension of diabetes, being also an important contribution to improving the definition of health policies within this disease. It should be noted that in many countries the realization of a national register has been an essential contribution to the promotion of more efficient strategies. Therefore, paying attention to the problems related to diabetes, The Greens have come forward with a number of proposals, which we give the example of the draft resolution for regulating the sharing of insulin pumps and improving the procedures for the placement and distribution of devices. In addition, the Greens have presented a number of legislative initiatives in this Parliament to create the conditions for more effective action on better eating habits, of which there are obvious benefits, particularly at the level of primary prevention of diabetes. To illustrate, we highlight some initiatives, such as bills on advertising to children's foods, on promoting fruit at school bars, the bill on the sale of sugared foods and oversalting in automatic sales machines, or also the legislative initiative for the participation of systems for monitoring and treatment of diabetes. By continuing this work, the Greens consider it urgent to take more steps to deepen knowledge about the real dimension and impact of diabetes, thus contributing to ensuring more knowledge, more quality of life and safety for type 1 diabetics. In fact, everything that is within our reach to ensure these assumptions must be fulfilled as soon as possible, going to meet the demands of people with type 1 diabetes, their family members and caregivers, but also of the scientific community, which is ultimately reflected in the petition that motivated this agenda. These are the reasons that have led us to present this legislative initiative with the aim of finally implementing a national register of type 1 diabetes, under the responsibility of the National Health Service, updated annually and equipped with the appropriate human and financial resources that allow a deeper and real knowledge of this disease as well as the needs of people with type 1 diabetes. Finally, we propose that a survey of the needs of people with diabetes should be carried out with a view to filling the evidenced gaps in order to effectively implement the appropriate measures to ensure the quality of life for patients with diabetes. This is the contribution of the Greens Ecological Party, also to respond to the more than just claims and objectives that the petitioners brought to us through the petition that motivated this agenda. [[Congrats from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u125	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by congratulating all the people who have mobilized for this petition, in which the Association Protection of Diabetics of Portugal expresses its legitimate concern with the absence of a national register of type 1 diabetes, which is essential for greater and better information about this disease, as well as precisely for the promotion of policies aimed at the implementation of more efficient prevention, treatment and control strategies. The data available indicate that in Portugal type 1 and type 2 diabetes affects more than one million people, which adds more than 2 million prediabetic people. unlike type 2 diabetes, more known, which often occurs in adulthood, we know that type 1 diabetes can develop at any age and is one of the most common chronic diseases. The National Program for Diabetes, in collaboration with the National Observatory for Diabetes, has as one of its aims to promote knowledge and dissemination of information on diabetes disease in Portugal. Despite this work, there was no single structured programme in Portugal capable of integrating and making up-to-date all the information regarding type 1 diabetes, particularly regarding its incidence and prevalence in all age groups. The one who became known as the 'DOCE Programme' aimed at registering type 1 and 2 diabetes of children and young people aged 21 or under, but at the same time, it is extinct. This program reported that in 2015 type 1 diabetes reached around 3300 people and 13 new cases emerged for every 100,000 young people between 0 and 14 years of age. Knowing that the treatment of diabetes can be optimized and its complications minimized, it is important to know the best possible reality in our country's scenario, thus defining the best strategies and means in health policies. For this reason, the Association, like other countries, defended, in this petition, that an updated National Register of Diabetes would be created, including identifying the National Institute of Health Dr. Ricardo Jorge (INSA ) as the body that could have the best conditions for collecting this type of information. We recall that the NAP had already submitted a draft resolution recommending that the Government extend free access to continuous insulin infusion devices for all over 18 years of age with type 1 diabetes. We remember that the Assembly of the Republic has already recommended to the Government that a national register of type 1 diabetes, integrated in clinical practice, with continuous updating and whose prevalence and incidence data are possible to extract, where necessary, with an annual analysis. But we also remember that until now it has not been established and the NAP fully supports the objective of this petition, bringing here the debate on this subject, this recommendation, with the clear objective of stressing the urgency of implementing this mechanism. This is a mechanism for monitoring and monitoring this disease in Portugal, at all ages, ensuring, including, better information for all professionals, the best public health policies and, above all, the best answers for all and all people suffering from this disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u127	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Miguel Arrobas.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the subscribers and petitioners of this initiative, the Association Protecting Diabetics of Portugal, to whom I thank all the work done in the field for diabetes in general. I begin by recalling that less than a year ago several legislative initiatives on diabetes were discussed and approved here, in which the CDS also had its draft resolution and in which we recommended to the Government that 100 % of the devices for continuous subcutaneous infusion of insulin to all diabetics aged 18 years with express clinical indication of their assistant physician, which we had already proposed at the state budget office for 2021, but which at the time was rejected, with the votes against the PS and the abstention of the PSD. I would like to point out that it is still curious that, less than a year ago, when all these initiatives were discussed and approved, the PS also presented a draft resolution to recommend to the Government that — and I quote — « carry out a national register of type 1 diabetes, integrated in clinical practice, with continuous updating and whose prevalence and incidence data are possible to extract when necessary and to be analysed annually ». This project was also approved and, in support of the Government, it is not understood how the PS did not exercise its judiciary of influence, along with the left parties, in the sense that the creation of this national register was already under way today. If he is, we don't know anything. At the time, the PS said, well, that therapeutic education, multidisciplinary monitoring, self-control and self-management are fundamental tools for those living with this disease. But then he rejected the CDS proposal in the State Budget, which provided the same as our draft resolution, which went precisely to provide these patients with greater self-control and more self-management in their management. Of course, the CDS considers that the national registry of type 1 diabetes makes all the sense, although, in the case of diabetes, and thanks to APDP, it is even one of the diseases most known in Portugal and in which it works best in terms of patient follow-up. So we cannot stop asking some questions, especially to the Socialist Party: if they are so concerned about the tools for those living with diabetes, why did they vote against our proposal in the 2021 State Budget? Why has it not yet been complied with in this regard in the 2020 State Budget? If the PS is so concerned about these patients and even proposed the creation of the national register here today, why, almost a year after that approval, has nothing been done? How will the PS vote today all these initiatives under discussion? There is seriousness on the part of the Socialist Party and it not only approves these initiatives as it requires the Government to do what it has to do once and for all. On the part of the CDS, we will maintain our coherence and defend what may represent an improvement in the approach to diabetes. We will accompany all the initiatives under discussion here today, without prejudice to the fact that, if approved in the field of expertise, some aspects can be improved, particularly in the draft resolution of the CFP. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u129	You have the floor for one speech, Mr Rui Cristina, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss petition No 114 / XIV / 1. by which more than 4000 Portuguese citizens — who have already taken advantage of to greet — ask the Assembly of the Republic to recommend to the Government the creation of a national register of type 1 diabetes. This is a justified claim, insofar as the creation of the single register and for all ages is an essential condition for health authorities to be able to have complete and up-to-date information on the social reality of type 1 diabetes. But it is also a timely claim here, since the country does not know exactly how many people among us suffer from type 1 diabetes. It is certain that this is a minority in view of the total universe of people with diabetes, but we do not have complete and reliable numbers about this reality, which will make it impossible for such patients to intervene and monitor properly. And this is an important issue in that, unlike type 2 diabetes, where the disease is usually associated with genetics, where the disease also has to do with lifestyle habits, in type 1 diabetes we are in the presence of an autoimmune disease, of much more difficult diagnosis, until there are more obvious probable causes. Moreover, as the petitioners are very aware, type 1 diabetes requires a very proper and demanding approach. People with type 1 diabetes need to inject insulin daily, they also need to monitor blood glucose levels in order to maintain at appropriate levels. Without insulin, as has already been said, they don't survive. Therapeutic education, multidisciplinary monitoring, self-control and self-management are fundamental tools for those living with this disease. And in this context, the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party cannot fail to follow the various parliamentary initiatives presented following the petition that is currently under discussion, because we also defend the creation of a single and common register for type 1 diabetes at all ages. The PSD also considers that this registration will allow greater scientific knowledge about the disease and its actual size and population distribution. And we are also convinced that only through this knowledge can the country develop more effective strategies in controlling this disease. Parliament will certainly be able to take advantage of these initiatives and will certainly also be able to recommend to the Government that a national register of type 1 diabetes be established. So the government knows, then, to carry out its duty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u131	For one last speech, Mrs Susana Correia has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet the citizens who have signed the petition « How many are we with type 1 diabetes? » and we also welcome the Association Protector of Diabetics of Portugal, the Association Mellitus Child, the Group of Diabetics type 1, the Portuguese Society of Diabetics, the Section of Endocrinology and Paediatric Diabetics of the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics, the Center for Studies of Diabetes Mellitus of the Portuguese Society of Internal Medicine, recognizing in all these and so many others the importance of the work they perform with people with diabetes, their family members and caregivers. Today, four draft resolutions are under discussion that recommend to the Government the creation of a national type 1 diabetes registry. This is the claim made by the subscribers of this petition, which require the Assembly of the Republic to recommend to the Ministry of Health the creation of an updated national register that allows the acquisition of more and better scientific knowledge about the real dimension of diabetes and that allow critical thinking for a better definition of health policies related to the disease. The four draft resolutions presented here follow the path and result in the final object of the project presented by the Socialist Party, and already discussed in this House, Mr. Members, in which the Socialist Party proposed — and approved unanimously — the creation of a national register, stressing the importance of knowing exactly the prevalence and incidence of type 1 diabetes in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u133	Where is he?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u134	Mr President, this initiative was unanimously adopted in the Diário da República on 28 April 2021 — I repeat, on 28 April 2021 — so very recently we have all been unanimous in this House in the creation of a national register of type 1 diabetes, and today we return here with the initiatives calling for and recommending the creation of a national register of type 1 diabetes. We are committed to and committed to the strategies also provided for in the National Programme for Diabetes, which are based on prevention, quality and safety of care for people with diabetes. We believe that, despite all the measures already implemented, which aim to improve diabetes management and its risk factors, there is still need for improvements in preventive care. That is our commitment. With the ambition to recover Portugal from the enormous economic and social shock induced by the pandemic crisis, health is an important component and we know that the Government intends to adopt measures with the aim of achieving important results at the level of primary health care, integration of proximity response care and the commitment to health promotion and disease prevention. And, Mr President of the CDS, the role of PS in this House has been of support and complementarity to realistic work that progressively and efficiently ensures access to new technologies and new treatments, promoting a more effective response to disease prevention and control and improving the quality of life of patients and families accompanying patients with type 1 diabetes. This is not trivial questions, it is a path that must be made with responsibility and in view of the safety of the patient. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u135	Thus, the assessment of Petition No 114 / XIV / 1 is completed. a ( APDP-Associação protectiona dos Diabetices de Portugal ), together with Resolution Projects Nos 1066 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 1213 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 1256 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) and 1443 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN). Before taking into account the agenda for tomorrow's sitting, Mr. Secretary of Bureau Mr. Diogo León has an announcement to make. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u136	Mr. President, I inform you that you were present at today's session by video conference Mr. Olavo Câmara of the PS, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-06.u137	The plenary session tomorrow, at 3 p.m., has as its sole point a debate on general policy with the presence of Mr Prime Minister. I thank everyone for their collaboration in today's work and wish you a good night. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 23 minutes.]]
