ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor to give several information.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u2	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I announce the withdrawal of Resolution Projects Nos 982 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and 734 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN). However, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, several legislative initiatives: the Proposals of Law Nos 77 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) and 78 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) ; Draft Law Nos 724 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 725 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 726 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 727 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 728 / XIV / 2. a ( IL), 729 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 730 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 731 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 732 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) and 733 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) ; Parliamentary Appreciation No 44 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) ; and Resolution Projects Nos 1069 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 1071 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 1072 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 1073 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 1074 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 1075 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 1076 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 1077 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 1078 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 1079 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 1080 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 1081 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 1082 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 1083 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 1084 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 1085 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 1086 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 1087 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 1088 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), 1089 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 1090 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 1091 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 1092 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 1093 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 1094 / XIV / 2. a ( CH), 1095 / XIV / 2. a ( CH), 1096 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 1097 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), 1098 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 1099 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 1100 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 1101 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), 1102 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 1103 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 1104 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), and 1105 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ). Mr President, I am now going to announce the results of the elections held at the previous sitting last Thursday, 11 March 2021, to bodies outside the Assembly of the Republic : For the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, in a universe of 225 voters, 146 votes were recorded « yes », 70 white votes and 9 null votes were elected as effective candidates Miguel Oliveira da Silva ( PS ), Isabel Margarida de Figueiredo Silvestre ( PS ), Luís António Proença Duarte Madeira ( PS ), André Gonçalo Dias Pereira ( PS ), Maria do Céu Patrão Neves ( PS ) and Carlos Maurício Barbosa ( PS ) and, as alternates, Maria Augusta Sobrinho Simões ( PS ), Jorge Quin Ribeiro de Araújo ( PS ), Carlos Mota Cardoso ( PSD ) and Firmino José Rodrigues Marques ( PS ) ; For the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents ( CADA ), in a universe of 225 voters, 144 votes were recorded « yes », 71 white votes and 10 null votes were elected as effective candidates Tiago Sistelo Fidelgo de Freitas ( PS ) and Sonia Cristina Silva dos Ramos ( PSD ) and Maria Luís Pereira Vaz ( PS ) and Silvia Damila Macedo Lino Gonçalves ( PSD ) ; For the National Mechanism for Monitoring the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in a universe of 225 voters, 158 votes 'yes' were recorded, 60 white votes and 7 null votes, having been elected candidates Ana Marques Serra and Moura Salvado and Pedro Manuel Ribeiro da Silva ; For the Board of Radio and Television of Portugal, S.A. In a universe of 225 voters, 159 votes were recorded « yes », 48 white votes and 18 null votes, having been elected as effective, the candidates Feltabela Maria Carvalho Lopes ( PS ), Simonetta Luz Afonso ( PS ), Maria Estrela Ramos Serrano Caleiro ( PS ), Maria Inácia Rezola and Palacios Clemente ( PS ), Fernando António Pinheiro Correia ( PCP ), José Carlos Costa Barros ( PS ), Maria Nassalete Guedes Diz ( PS ), Florbela Maria Silva Teixeira Guedes ( PS ), João Paulo de Jesus Faustino ( PS ) and Paulo Alexandre Pinheiro Mendes ( BE ) and, as alternates, Vera Sampa Lemos ( PS ), Cristina Ponte ( PS ) and Maria Clara Duarte de Almeida Frexes ( PS ) ; For the Supervisory Board of the Integrated Criminal Information System, in a universe of 224 voters, 135 votes were recorded « yes », 74 white votes and 15 null votes, not having been elected candidates Maria Isabel Solnado Porto Oneto ( PS ), Luciano Manuel Calheiros Gomes ( PSD ) and Antonio Ribeiro Gameiro ( PS ) ; For the Supervisory Board of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic ( CFSIRP ), in a universe of 224 voters, there were 142 votes « yes », 69 white votes and 13 null votes, not having been elected Susana de Fátima Carvalho Amador ( PS ) and Joaquim Carlos Vasconcelos da Ponte ( PSD ) ; For a judge of the Constitutional Court, in a universe of 225 voters, 103 votes "yes", 107 white votes and 15 null votes, not having been elected the candidate proposed, Professor José Eduardo de Oliveira Figueiredo Dias ; For a member of the National Defence Higher Council, in a universe of 225 voters, 136 votes "yes" were recorded, 80 white votes and 9 null votes, not having been elected the candidate proposed, Mrs Lara Fernandes Martinho. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. of the first item on the agenda is the reading of the message of the President of the Republic on the devolution, without promulgation, of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 109 / XIV — Rules the conditions under which the death of the assisted drug is not punishable and amends the Criminal Code. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall therefore read the message of the President of the Republic, which was sent to us on 15 March 2021 : « Together, I shall return your Excellency in accordance with Article 279. the, paragraph 1 of the Constitution, the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 109 / XIV— regulates the conditions under which the death of assisted medicinal products is not punishable and amends the Criminal Code, since the Constitutional Court, by judgment whose photocopy is annexed, has pronounced itself in the place of preventive supervision in the following terms: , paragraph 1, on the basis of the violation of the principle of determining the law as a corollary to the principles of the State of democratic law and the reservation of parliamentary law arising from the conjugated provisions of Articles 2. o is 165. paragraph 1 ( b ) of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, by reference to the inviolability of human life as set out in Article 24. , paragraph 1, of the same legislation ; and as a consequence, (b ) shall be pronounced by the unconstitutionality of the rules set out in Articles 4. o, 5. o, 7. o is 27. that of the same Decree. Do not keep on seeking. ” I believe that everyone is familiar with the Constitutional Court's judgment. I therefore believe that we can turn to the second item on our agenda, which is a debate with the Government on general policy under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. I greet Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government here present. Today, the first round of questions lies with the Left Block Parliamentary Group. To this end, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, EDP sold six dams for more than EUR 2000 million and mounted an aggressive tax planning scheme to avoid paying taxes. Only by stamp tax did EDP escape with EUR 110 million. The Government was notified of this operation even before it happened. The Miranda Land Cultural Movement met with the Minister of the Environment and explained that EDP was preparing a scheme not to pay the tax due to the sale of dams. At the time, the Minister of the Environment told the Movement that he would pass the information on to the Ministry of Finance. We don't know what happened, but we know that the government didn't stop the business and that the business could only happen with the government's permission. The question I ask Mr. Prime Minister is what the whole country is asking: how could the government authorize a business that allowed EDP to escape with more than 110 million euros in seal tax? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u5	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, to whom I greet again.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President, to whom I also greet. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Catarina Martins, in this case, the Government shall intervene at one time and with one precise purpose: to authorise or not authorize the transfer of the concession. For this purpose, there are two criteria which the law sets in its assessment: first, the suitability of the proposed concessionaire; second, if it has the capacity due for the management of the tails. These are the grounds that the Government has to authorize or not the transfer of the concession and is therefore a competence of the Ministry of the Environment. All the tax matters associated with this business, such as any business, such as a house that any one of us buy or buy with our income, is not a matter of the competence of the Government, it is a matter of the competence of the Tax Authority ( AT ), which has all the elements necessary for the tax qualification of that business and to proceed with due collection, if any. Therefore, as the Government does not determine to the Tax Authority that it should not act on a particular business, the Government does not also determine to the Tax Authority that it should act on a given business. We trust the Tax Authority and the Tax Authority, surely, will carry out their duties. Since doubts have been raised about legality—I believe that the PPD / PSD has already promoted the submission of a criminal complaint on this matter—the competent judicial authorities will verify whether there has been any criminal fact and the Tax Authority will verify whether there will be any violation of tax law and will not cease to act accordingly. With regard to the Government, the only and exclusive action it had to have had to do was to check whether the proposed concessionaire had the right to exercise the concession and whether it had the power to ensure the necessary flows. It was this assessment that the Ministry of the Environment made, and, in this regard, gave permission. Moreover, the tax authorities are there to act and the judicial authorities are also there to carry out their duties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u7	Mrs Catarina Martins, of the Left Block, continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u8	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in fact these are not the only criteria that should guide the performance of the Government. What the law says, both the regime for the use of water resources, in its Article 26. the, like the Water Law, in its Article 72. the, is that there are criteria to be transmitted, but does not say that these criteria are sufficient for the government to accept the transmission. Therefore, the Government had the possibility at its disposal to say that EDP could not set up a business structure to avoid paying taxes due to the sale of dams. The Government has decided not to do what it could have done, and now what it is telling Parliament is that, eventually, the Tax Authority may go to court for years to try to get EDP to pay the taxes in default. Mr. Prime Minister, the business could and should have been stopped earlier. EDP sold the six dams for more than EUR 2000 million and in the country no one understands how the government, having been notified before the business, may have allowed EDP to do so without paying the due taxes. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you if you know whether the Minister of the Environment has come to speak with the Minister of Finance about the complaint of the Miranda Land Cultural Movement, which, as you know, has also filed a complaint in justice on this matter, and whether or not the Government has decided to consider that aggressive tax planning was not a matter for this sale. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u9	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Government's competence in this matter has to do with the suitability of the proposed concessionaire and the management of the caudas. It is not for the Government, it is not for any member of the Government and it is not even for the State Secretary for Tax Affairs to qualify for any business. This is the competence of the Tax Authority and, contrary to what the honourable Member says, the Tax Authority does not have to go to court to collect anything, because it has prior enforcement privileges: it determines for the EDP, as it determines for any of us, what we have to charge; it charges; and if anyone wants to protest, it will have to go to court. Therefore, we trust the operation of the Tax Authority. Unless the honourable Member knows any specific facts that lead us to raise a suspicion about the suitability of the Tributary Authority for the performance of its duties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u11	Mrs Catarina Martins, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, the suitability of the Tax Authority is not at issue. What is at stake is that the Government has been aware, before the business and before the authorization, of the aggressive tax planning of EDP to avoid paying taxes and, having had the legal opportunity to impose a criterion of tax justice, has chosen to authorize the sale without imposing any criterion of tax justice. On EDP's behaviour to escape taxes, finally, the story is long about aggressive tax planning in Portugal. Mr. Prime Minister, it is serious and would be serious at all times, but at the moment that the country is experiencing this crisis, it is even more shocking that, having been warned before, the government has done nothing to prevent the business and force EDP to pay the taxes it owes, from the very moment the people of Miranda's land because, as you know, this Parliament has approved that this tax would be for a fund for Trás-os-Montes. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you another question, on another matter, about the risk allowance, and again about the government's performance. Health professionals are the ones who are holding the country, and the government has done very little to compensate for its sacrifice, and at the moment it is not fulfilling what little it has promised. The Government knows that the Left Block objected to the design of the risk subsidy approved in the State Budget because it excludes many of the professionals who deal with COVID patients every day, but it is indeed shocking that we know that in February the subsidy was not paid and that it will not be in March either. The question I ask you, Prime Minister, is this: when will the government pay the risk allowance you promised to health professionals? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u13	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u14	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I take back what she said: Governments are limited by law and their powers to authorize or not authorize certain behaviours are not independent of the grounds on which they may, or may not, authorize. in this case, the foundations are very concrete and they are the two I have already mentioned. All other matters have their own authorities, which they must deal with and whose assessment is in no way detrimental. Turning to the issue of risk allowance, I would first of all like to give the good news that the Minister of Health has already ordered the payment of the risk allowance due to health professionals. For professionals in other sectors, the ports are still under signature, but for health professionals, the Minister has already ordered her payment. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the great support given to health professionals has even been their strengthening. This was a subject which, in fact, accompanied us for many months over the past year and it was strange that in the last two months it had not returned to the debate between us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u15	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u16	Because, finally, when we stopped needing to make the annual comparison and became able to make the comparison from January to January, we found what we said: in January this year we have many more health professionals than we had last year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have many more doctors in January this year than we had last year and, Madam Member, especially because she insisted many and many times that the number of doctors was shrinking, it is verified that in January this year the number of doctors is frankly higher than what was in January last year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As we have said, and contrary to what the honourable Member has said over several months, we have strengthened human resources in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u17	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u18	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I am glad that the Minister of Health has already ordered the payment of the risk allowance. It was good to always be paid early, so that professionals would not wait for what is due them, and it was also good that this allowance would reach all health professionals and all professionals who are in contact with COVID patients, because, as you know, that is not the reality. With regard to health professionals, although medical students who start their first year of boarding have entered to make their journey, but we do not forget that they have taken an entire year of pandemic with fewer doctors; we do not forget the nurses, technicians and assistants who currently have precarious contracts; we do not forget that on the 20th day of this month, they finish the precarious contracts of the superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians who are in the Upper Minho, in an illegal condition, indeed, outsourcing; we do not forget that there are older health professionals who are going to shortly for reform; and we do not forget, too, that the government has not made progress with exclusivity and that, in fact, has secured professionals with the rule of the state of emergency that prohibits them from firing. We continue to say that we need to link the weaknesses of the SNS (National Health Service ), that we need exclusivity to fix health professionals and that we need careers that treat these professionals as they deserve. They hold the country and can't just be with palms, it has to be with rights and career.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u20	Mr Prime Minister, even at the end of this first round, I wanted to ask you a question about vaccines. I think it would be good to have a statement by the Prime Minister on this matter because there has been little more than noise in the European Union. After the promise of a large production of vaccines and a solution, the European Union is engaged in a struggle between pharmacists and between countries, seemingly unable to respond to the rapid vaccination of the population. It does not make sense that, since there is an excess capacity in vaccine production, we will begin to debate whether security forces, teachers or people with certain health conditions are first vaccinated. There were all the conditions to vaccinate everyone, both in Portugal and in Europe and the rest of the world. António Guterres, in fact, has already warned of the moral bankruptcy of a process of vaccines that does not guarantee its universalization. I remember that in the United States of America the threat of use of compulsory leave has served to extend the production of the vaccine and today the President of the European Commission has also said that he will use all resources. Portugal has the rotating Presidency of the European Union and we have not yet heard the Prime Minister say what he thinks about this vaccination process and how the European Union should behave in the face of the pharmaceuticals and contracts he has made, which are not sufficient to ensure rapid and universal vaccination. What I ask you, Prime Minister, is that, on this occasion, you should tell us what Portugal is doing on this subject. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u21	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u22	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, facts are facts. We spent the whole year listening to the Left Block saying that we did not strengthen the professionals of the National Health Service and, in particular, that we did not strengthen the number of doctors of the National Health Service. For a whole year, we repeated what we didn't need to explain, because the Left Block well knew that the annual comparison is not relevant and that the only real, serious and sustained comparison we can do is January to January. If we are now going to make the balance sheet, the result is very simple: only last year, we strengthened almost as much, we increased the number of doctors in the National Health Service as we had done it throughout the previous legislation. In all the previous legislation, I repeat, that which, surely, either for me or for Mrs. Deputy, is a legislature of excellent memory. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we did this in four years and if, last year, we did almost as much as in the previous four years, the only thing we can say is: the four years were of good memory, but we also shared the good memory of last year, Mrs. Don't stay away from her, because we wouldn't get on the right track. For vaccines, the European Commission has played a very important role, which was to ensure a joint purchase. If there is an international struggle for vaccines, imagine what it would be if there was also a struggle in the European Union between 27 Member States for such vaccines. The work of the European Commission was fundamental, and we must all make an effort to support it. That is what the Portuguese Presidency has done, perhaps without fear, but with consistency. We have acted with both pharmaceutical companies and third countries in order to maintain a united front and to help solve the problems and create a common position which, as the President of the European Commission said today, does not exclude the use of any instrument to ensure the fulfilment of the contracts and the recovery of the existing delay due to a lack of compliance with the contract by a pharmaceutical company. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u23	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that we already have the conditions for voting, since the quorum is more than exceeded, with 194 ladies and gentlemen. Members registered for this purpose. You now have the floor to put questions to Mr Rui Rio of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is important to insist on the issue of EDP, which the Left Block has raised because I think that people at home have not understood well what is at stake. Therefore, this should be simplified for people to understand. EDP sold the right to exploit six dams. It's a normal business, it's just a business where one buys and another sells and has taxes to pay, but EDP set up a scheme to try not to pay taxes. And what's that scheme like? one day, EDP creates a company with an employee. On the following day, the operation of six dams, worth EUR 2, EUR 2 billion, for this company with an official — one! — to manage the six dams. on that same day, he sells this company to a consortium and, a month later, the consortium begins to extinguish it, saying that it is completely redundant. And it's true, she's completely redundant. With this, EDP has not paid IMI (municipal property tax), so it has not paid IMT (municipal property tax ), does not pay IRC ( corporate income tax) and, above all, does not pay seal tax, which is essentially what is at stake here, i.e. EUR 110 million. And the government authorizes this operation even before — three or four days before — the ghost company has been set up. In fact, it is precisely three months ago that this business has taken place. Therefore, the government authorizes this operation even before, and it knows, because EDP always explained what it was going to do, exactly how everything was going to proceed: that it would create a ghost company, with an official, to manage six dams, which would then be sold the day after its creation. That's too much! I believe that the Portuguese do not understand the simulation that is here, but simplified in this way, it is understood. So what I don't understand is how the government, which is so stubborn to charge the taxes of the Portuguese — for everything and something else will charge the Portuguese! — there are members who are genuine EDP defence lawyers in order to promptly state that nothing is due. How is it that the State, which has to receive that money, is the first, through members of the government, to say no that it is not due IMT, that the IMI is not due, that it is not due to seal, that nothing is due? Oh, my God! Moreover, Mr. Prime Minister told Mrs. Catarina Martins that AT is examining the case and that it is who will decide. Mr Prime Minister, three months have passed today, strictly, three months: the company was set up on 16 December, the dams were integrated on 17 December and the company was sold and then started to be dissolved, except error, on 25 January. So how does it explain that the Tax Authority, at the end of three months, has not said anything and that the members of the Government, particularly the Minister of the Environment, are so rightly explaining that nothing is due? Oh, my God! Normally, on the contrary, it is the government who wants to receive taxes—and then this government, who likes taxes so much and who is going to increase the tax burden! That's all, honestly, I don't understand! Mr. Prime Minister, how do you explain that AT is taking so long in this case? And I ask you, in front of you, if you agree that the Minister for the Environment and even the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs come to the public to say that nothing is due, as by pressing the AT for nothing to charge. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u25	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u26	Mr. President, Mr. Rui Rio, indeed I am not a lawyer, I am not a tax settler, I am not a judge of the Public Prosecutor's Office, I am not an EDP shareholder, I am not an shareholder of Engie, I am not at all none of that. I am simply Prime Minister. As Prime Minister, what is it for me to say? What I am to say is that, under the law, when a public asset is granted to a particular undertaking or to a particular individual, and that particular individual intends to transfer its concession, the grantor is not authorized in this case by the State. In the specific case of dams, the law is very clear to state the terms according to which the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ) has to assess whether or not it gives authorisation: the entity's ability to explore the dam and to ensure proper management of the tails. This is the competence of APA. I know that you are not a jurist, but any lawyer will explain to you that there is a figure, that is the detour of power, that is to exercise a power not on the basis of which it is granted to us, but on a different basis from which it is granted. As the AT cannot liquidate, or cease to liquidate, according to an environmental assessment of a given entity, APA may not either grant or refuse authorisation on the basis of tax matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, the honourable Member has had the opportunity to speak of something of the greatest importance here. It is that when there was this pronouncement, which had strictly to do with the issue of the management of the caudals and the ability to manage the dams, the so-called phantom company did not even exist. In other words, such a scheme that Mr Deputy denounced, as being a tax simulation scheme,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u27	And it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u28	... and which constitutes an illegal tax, was not yet configured at that time. And even if it was, it wasn't the APA who was competing to make that assessment. So what I would like to say to you is this: if there was fiscal simulation, this is unacceptable, dealing with EDP, dealing with the AdP ( Waters of Portugal ), whether it is Petrogal or whether it is any of us. That's basic! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the rule of law has rules, and one of the good rules is that the Government and the members of the Government should not interfere in the exercise of the powers of the services, namely services which are quite sensitive, such as the Tax Authority. Would the honourable Member be comfortable if the Government understood that it was up to it to have tax inspections carried out at A, B, or C? Only in a totalitarian state is that this happens! [[P.S.'s applause.]] As would be absolutely unacceptable in a rule of law that the Government could say « non-taxation A, B or C ». I do not think that you are right — and if you have, I think it is appropriate to explain it — to question the suitability of the Tax Authority and the competence of the Director-General of the Tax Authority and its services. Therefore, with the information I have, I have no reason to question the suitability of the Tax Authority or its Director-General; I must simply wait for the Tax Authority to act on this business, as I take it that it acts on each of the businesses in the country. Because there are businesses that are going to be done in the country, for the purchase and sale of houses, for the establishment of companies, for the establishment of establishments, for the sale of businesses, and what I assume is that the Tax Authority performs its function. I do not honestly believe that, after the fog of everything that has raised this business, the Director-General of the AT has not sent his services to see, at least saying "see what is going on with this business", and that at the moment he is not seeing what is going on. I would be disturbed if I weren't doing it, but I also say one thing: if you are doing it, it is normal for you to do it respecting the very secrecy of the AT activity, not having to inform at least the Prime Minister, and I don't know whether the Minister of Finance or the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs. But I would be surprised if, in front of the fog, everything that has existed, indeed fully understandable, because the least that can be said is that all this construction is at least creative, so it does not naturally arouse the curiosity of going to see what is happening. It doesn't even occur to me that AT isn't doing this, because I think it's obvious, because of its functions, that you're going to do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u29	Mr Rui Rio of the PSD Parliamentary Group continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u30	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, with regard to what you have said, there is a difference and agreement between us. The difference is that Mr. Prime Minister is of legal training and I am an economist. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister may even have some doubts—as I have told you, often the lawyers exist to complicate and not to simplify—but I, as an economist, tell you honestly: this makes no sense strictly, has no economic logic at all! [[PSD applause.]] Getting to create companies with an employee to manage a business worth 2, 2 billion euros makes no sense strictly none! [[PSD applause.]] The importance of what is being done and being investigated has also been given to the Members of Trás-os-Montes of the PSD by making an exhibition to the PGR ( Attorney-General of the Republic ) to see what each one has done and what each one is doing. With regard to the agreement between us, it is clear that the Prime Minister did not have the courage to say the way I said, but did a clear and open censorship to the Minister of the Environment, who interfered with what Mr Prime Minister has just said, and well, that he should not interfere. It is that when the Minister of the Environment or even the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, but in particular the Minister of the Environment, they come to the public saying that nothing is due, they are, of course, pressing AT in the sense, let us say, almost contrary to the one of their obligation, that it is to defend the state's safes. Therefore, I think I should like to congratulate you on your censorship of the Minister of the Environment, although it has not been with the Portuguese I would like to hear it again. I would like to ask you another question on a different subject, which has to do with TAP, but which is still an absolutely vital issue for Portugal. The government reversed the privatisation of TAP and, of course, that was a mistake we are paying. Not because of the pandemic, which is different: in December 2019, TAP was already a bankrupt company. It was a company bankrupt in the balance sheet, with negative own capital of EUR 777 million — I think it would be more than that, but in the balance sheet it was EUR 777 million — for which it had a liability of more than EUR 5000 million. That was already the case in December 2019. The government decided to set EUR 1, EUR 2 billion and then decided in the subsequent budget, in the one in force, to allocate more EUR 500 million, which means that more EUR 500 million had flown into the TAP — it is said in about EUR 3.7 billion. And it is good that we all think about this: the famous 'basca' — what Mr. Prime Minister calls 'basca' — namely, historically, a large amount of money from the European Union to help the Portuguese economy — provides EUR 4, 4 billion for the whole economy, for all companies! It is EUR 4 billion that according to what Mr. Prime Minister has said and according to the accounts we make, are in the « bazouca ». Only for TAP will probably go to EUR 3, EUR 7 billion or more. So only one company, which is TAP, takes almost as much as all other joint ventures: it takes 80 percent of all other companies together. [[PSD applause.]] That is why the question is clear. We have all been doing it for a long time, no one knows the answer, but is this: in the plan delivered in Brussels, how much does the government, the taxes of the Portuguese, put in the restructuring of the TAP? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u31	Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u32	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, to make it clear, I will not censor Mr Environment Minister. I praised the Minister of the Environment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Minister for the Environment has done his job very strictly, speaking on what he had to say and, finally, on nothing else. Secondly, and with regard to TAP, I believe that we have a radically different point of view and that, unfortunately, we will continue to have this: the honourable Member will tend to consider that the TAP is not essential for the country, its sovereignty, its geo-strategic position and its affirmation in the world and its whole relationship with the Portuguese communities. I understand this and I realize that it does not shock the fact that a government has already been dismissed in this Assembly of the Republic, even if it has been allowed to sell the TAP, knowing that the majority that had knocked it down was against the sale of the TAP. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u33	You don't seem to be shocked by that. But there is something indisputable: the State had not taken the position it took in the TAP as soon as 2016, when one of the private partners had the vicissitudes it had, the TAP would have been dragged, as other companies of that partner in other parts of the world, into bankruptcy. Today, what we would actually have, would be a broken company. Fortunately, today, we have a company that is vital to the national economy, which is vital to national sovereignty, which is fundamental to the unity of the national territory, which is fundamental to our relationship with Portuguese communities and is in the process of recovery. This is the work we are doing with the European Commission, creating the best conditions for it to be recovered and to fulfil its role. As for the situation in 2019, he well knows that he was in the middle of strong investment and that the assessment that the market was doing was, in fact, well translated in the way in which TAP for the first time in decades had been able to raise in the market the financing it needed for his investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u34	Mr Rui Rio continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u35	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, very quickly, I would like to tell you that the investment effort has nothing to do with negative own capitals — that is the economist to say — what the lawyer's difference is. But I want to ask you another very clear question about TAP. The Government has agreed to pay cuts in the TAP in respect of staff expenditure, the main expenditure leading to negative own capital due to negative net results, given its cost structure. I will ask you two very clear questions. The first is this: are wage agreements only up to 2025 or are they up to 2025 forever? And, in case they are forever, the second question I put is: what does the government intend to do if the TAP goes into the scheme of former strikes after strikes until it is able to put back what it has now agreed to shorten? What does the government do in a situation like this? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u36	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u37	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, excuse me, but I was hoping that the honourable Member would say that, in the face of a very serious situation of civil aviation globally, in the face of the catastrophic situation in which the company finds itself, before a set of trade union structures which are historically difficult in its negotiating process, it was possible to negotiate an agreement with 15 of these trade union structures, i.e. with almost all of the trade union structures, to obtain agreements that impose gross sacrifice on workers. Trade union structures these and workers who, with a high sense of responsibility, have accepted this solution to try to save the company, which is not only its company, is a company of all us, is a fundamental company for the country, a company that takes the flag of Portugal all over the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, Mr President - and I do not say that you congratulate the Government, because I understand that you do not do so - instead of giving here a word of encouragement, of encouragement, of praise to the responsible way in which the trade union structures and the workers of the TAP have resisted and endured this crisis, here comes to ask what will happen when they start to strike! Excuse me, but at a time when these workers have just signed the agreements, when they make an agreement for the next few years which is extremely violent from the point of view of their incomes — in some professional categories, cuts are 50% of the salary! — Mr President, instead of giving them a word of praise, do you ask what the government is going to do if they get into a strike? Oh, my God! Mr. Deputies, frankly! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u38	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa now gives the floor to the Parliamentary Group of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u39	Mr President, Prime Minister, our reservations and disagreements with regard to the maintenance of the confinement imposed by the Government are public, and particularly at a time when advances in science today allow more effective solutions to prevent and combat COVID-19, such as vaccine, rapid and mass testing and consequent screening. We have stated that it is possible to find balanced solutions that combine the fight against VOCID with the resumption of the various economic, cultural and sporting activities, clearly defining the prevention measures for each sector and the support necessary for its implementation. But above all — and this is the aspect I want to highlight here today — by giving another dynamic and accelerating the process of vaccination of the population which, in this context, assumes a greater relevance in combating the epidemic. Therefore, resistance is not understood and much less the entertainment maneuvers and political pressures that aim to limit the purchase of vaccines to certain Anglo-American pharmaceuticals, and only to them, even knowing that they are not in a position to ensure their supply in time. This resistance is not understood in the face of supply delays, except for reasons dictated by the interests of the multinational pharmaceuticals, who want to have the monopoly of the business, along with reasons of geopolitics, which is also serious, when the lives of the populations are at stake. There is no reasonable explanation for this option. In the fight against the epidemic, vaccination is of strategic importance. What the situation claims is the acquisition of other vaccines, already recognized by the World Health Organization ( WHO ) and other national entities. The CFP presented a draft resolution in this House, already scheduled for discussion on 8 April, aimed at achieving three major objectives: ensuring the immediate acquisition of vaccines where they exist ; acting within the WHO and the United Nations to obtain the suspension of the validity of patents ; and creating the conditions for the production of vaccines in Portugal. Mr Prime Minister, does the Government weigh or not assume the sovereign option of diversifying the purchase of vaccines, developing contacts in this regard from now on in order to accelerate the vaccination of Portuguese? What investment measures are planned for the production of vaccines in the country and what initiatives will the Government take with a view to suspending patents? Mr. Prime Minister, you did this: today, the greater concern of millions of Portuguese people has to do with vaccines, advertisements, calendars and the lack and delay of vaccines. Register, Prime Minister! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u40	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u41	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, first of all, I share your view that, in combating this pandemic, we should make as much use of containment measures as possible. That is why our criterion has been to adopt the strictly necessary measures to deal with the pandemic and that disturb life in society as little as possible. That was, in fact, what we were able to do between May and January, at a time when, with greater or lesser constraints, we avoided these general confinements. Before May we couldn't do it, and after January we couldn't do it either. This is therefore an instrument to which we must resort, but only ultimately. That is why we have a preventive strategy based on the massification of testing and on the massification of contact tracking capacity in order to break the transmission chains. And we also have the vaccination program. But the vaccination program is a long program. It should not be forgotten that from the outset, even without any delay in production, this programme would only be completed at the end of the first quarter of next year. Although the objective, which is attainable from our point of view, is to have 70% of the adult population vaccinated in our country by the end of summer. What have we done about increasing production capacity? First of all, contrary to what I thought was presupply in your question, we have encouraged other producers to submit their vaccines to the European Medicines Agency for consideration and possible licensing. One of the vaccines produced by a Russian company is in fact already in the first phase of this process and outside the European market, for example in India, we have also encouraged producers to submit these vaccines to the European Medicines Agency. But one thing is certain: we cannot use vaccines that are not licensed by the European Medicines Agency. Secondly, the problem is unfortunately not in patents, because there are easy legal instruments that would allow us to solve it. The problem is even in production capacity. When he asks why Portugal does not produce, the answer is simple: that, from a survey we have done so far, there is no capacity in Portugal to produce any of these vaccines. We are, as it is public, working very closely with the Coura City Hall so that in the coming months a company will be installed that will have the capacity to produce vaccines in Portugal. But, now, this capacity, unfortunately, does not exist. We have made this survey and, if it existed, we would have already tried to obtain the appropriate licences or the agreement necessary for such production to be made. Unfortunately, we do not have that capacity. I believe, in fact, that the country should reflect on the effort it must make to provide itself, in the future, with its own capacity for the production of vaccines. And the National Drug Laboratory (NML) is perhaps one of the places where this investment must be made, so that, in all circumstances, we can have that capacity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u42	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u43	Mr President, Prime Minister, they say you are an optimist. Let's see if this optimism actually takes place, with the existence of more vaccines in time for the Portuguese people. Mr. Prime Minister, there is a clear use of the epidemic to attack workers' rights. For example, what happens at SPdH / Groundforce cannot be tolerated, with late wages and redundancy threats. The CFP requires the Government, through the public control of the company, to guarantee the rights and wages of workers. The epidemic of collective redundancies that is sweeping the country cannot be tolerated, using and abusing the burdensome rules of the Labour Code on collective bargaining, which puts on the agenda, in the opinion of the CFP, the need to change them. Mr. Prime Minister, another question has to do with the following: the word « digitisation» has entered into accelerated circulation to enliven speeches with an apparent sense of modernity, but digitization cannot be confused with the crushing of workers'rights, using 21st century algorithms to bring back labour relations from the 19th century.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u45	The CFP considers the situation of the workers of the so-called digital platforms to be unacceptable, multinationals who have set up the "digital day squares" here, which are illegal but which have counted on the liabilities of the authorities. These workers, falsely considered independent, suffer from endless hours, live without guaranteed wages, without the right to vacation, parenthood or even to be ill, oppressed by algorithms that dictate punishments, fines and dismissals. In telework it is important to make it clear that the home of each worker cannot be a dependency of the company, with which it places an increase in expenditure, in the protection of personal life, in health, in individual and collective rights. Many companies have fled to the fulfilment of the rights already enshrined for telework, given insufficient supervision. But this cannot be used to withdraw workers' rights or to exempt employers from their responsibilities by creating working conditions. It is in this sense that the PCP will continue to intervene. And we would like to know whether this is a commitment that the government also makes. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, you referred to the issue of the payment of risk subsidies for health professionals. All right, it was worth fighting for this proposal. But do not forget or delay in relation to essential service workers and to the elements of the security forces that continue to await this allowance that one day must come. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u46	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u47	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I believe that the Government has been making a public effort to respond to the situation in Groundforce and in particular to ensure payment of wages owed to workers. Yesterday, I had the opportunity to speak directly to a group of workers' representatives from Groundforce at Francisco Sá Carneiro Airport about what we are doing and who is on the table to try to answer that question. I do not know if you know, but on this last weekend, we have tabled a proposal for an increase in capital that would make it possible to ensure, from the outset, the payment of wages to workers, but with the assurance that this strengthening of Groundforce's financial resources has as its counterpart the control of the company and does not simply have as its counterpart the release of current shareholders of their obligations before their employees. Regarding the digital challenge, this is a crucial issue. Digital transition cannot mean virtualization and dematerialization of rights, on the contrary, a new right of work is required to respond to digital society. That is why it is one of the central themes of the Green Paper on labour relations, which we will briefly present in social dialogue, and, within the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union, we have convened as the main event of our Presidency to the Social Summit, which will take place on 7 May, in Porto, followed by the Informal Council on the European Pillar of Social Rights, on 8 May, in Porto, precisely to discuss this central issue of how it is essential to strengthen the social pillar and, in particular, the rights of workers in the context of digital and climate transitions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u48	Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u49	I will now finish, Mr President. The challenges are many, but they do not stop the transitions to the future, they pass by guaranteeing the transition to the future by maintaining and developing the rights which, over several decades, have constituted the common heritage of the workers, are part of the European social model and of our social model and which we must continue to preserve and strengthen in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u50	For the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Telmo Correia, whom I congratulate on the re-election.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister, allow me to return to the first point of our agenda today, which consisted of reading a decision of the Constitutional Court. On this subject, Minister, I would like to ask you the following: the country, in January and February, according to the pandemic situation and the lack of control we live in, struck records in the number of deaths. We have not had this number of deaths 100 years ago, especially since the last major pandemic of the Spanish flu. The CDS, at the time, said that it seemed to us that getting a law of euthanasia passed in this context was a bad option and it was wrong. In addition, we said that the law was unconstitutional and the Constitutional Court now declared the same unconstitutional law. What I would like to ask you, Mr Prime Minister — as Prime Minister but also knowing that the leader of the Socialist Party is here and remembering that, in the past, when another majority, there are two governments behind, it has passed laws that have been declared unconstitutional, it was said at that time that it was disrespecting the Constitution, that it was a scandal to rule against the Constitution, if this would not be the time to stop this process, until you recommend to the most radical opinions, other radicals who can support this idea, suspending it now, stopping it to think or at least not taking it forward without the Portuguese being consulted. Mr. Prime Minister, it's a first note. Even in this first question, a matter which Mr Prime Minister has been talking about today, but little — and I am not saying that the other subjects are not of the greatest relevance but surely this is also — is the defination and the plan that is in action. Mr. Prime Minister told us, at the time, that it was an account-to-book plan. However, even if the drop-out count is, the drop speed may not be irrelevant, because we can apply the drop-out count with higher speed or lower speed, as is evident. Comparing to other plans, such as the British for example, I would say until the drop speed is relatively fast. And why? Because in the British plane, as seen, nothing happened without at least 15 days of interval and evaluation. Our plan was announced to start four days later and between each of the phases there is also a period that rounds the 15 days, while in the other plan there is a greater space. The question here, Mr Prime Minister, seeking to avoid making mistakes and even with the doubts of caution that have been raised, is, for example, whether 1. the cycle should not only start after Easter. The truth is, he started without guaranteed the vaccination of the teachers. We know that there are facts that have led to this, but without the number of tests being sufficient — we have complaints in this sense — and without having been followed all the criteria of the experts, who recommended, in addition to the two criteria that were adopted in that square with that x, also the assessment of the positivity index and still the very incidence in the National Health System, that not all criteria have been adopted, so the question here is obvious. Mr. Prime Minister, I could also ask you about the tests in the pharmacy, because there is still any doubt about it, i.e. when they come into force and whether or not they will be reported, because this is relevant, but we know that we do not have a sufficient number of tests and we do not have enough trackers, i.e. how many trackers we increase is also a good question. I ask you if we are not here to commit some recklessness, if this, in your view, cannot be a risk, given that spring and summer are essential for the most penalized sectors such as tourism and restoration.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u52	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u53	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, it is not for the Government to express the position of the Socialist Party, which is expressed by the Socialist Party, with all its autonomy. I believe that your position is well known, so I do not think that I can add much to it. The Government has a habit, which is the following: just as it does not usually say about the decisions of the courts, as it does not usually say about the decisions of the President of the Republic, it does not usually say about the decisions of the Assembly of the Republic. It respects them, as it must respect the decisions of any other sovereign body, in that it is the strict fulfilment of the Constitution and its principle of separation and interdependence of powers. As for defining, as is known, it is always possible to find everything. We know the criteria of the CDS: it is always against what the government decides.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u54	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u55	It's not fair!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u56	If the government decides to close the restaurants, the CDS leader will manifest himself by appealing to the opening of the restaurants. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If the government opens the schools of 1. the cycle, the CDS is against the opening of the 1 schools. the cycle. Therefore, the CDS criterion is simple, clear, transparent and understandable. Ours is a little bit more difficult, I recognize, and we can't tell you that we do everything contrary to what the CDS thinks should be done because, besides, we do first and the CDS comments later and, therefore, we had to try to guess what the CDS opinion was. Therefore, what we did, and we did, was to ask the specialists to carry out an assessment of the risk of each activity, which based on this made a risk matrix, which they presented publicly and we all know the same, because it was presented in the Infarmed (National Medicines and Health Products Authority). In view of this work, I have heard the most diverse conclusions; there are those who, like the honourable Member, say that we were too quickly and others. Members, who will still speak today, will surely say that we have been too slow. My part is to say that I think we have been balanced, because, let me tell you, in the center is that virtue is. [[Laughing from Mr. Arrega André Ventura.]] That is why we have a defination that is the balance sheet, to allow us every fortnight to evaluate the impact of the decisions we have made and, according to two criteria,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u57	But there are four!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u58	... that I even see in the press that they seem to be the most demanding in European terms—one has to do with the incidence of new cases per 100 000 inhabitants in 14 days and another has to do with the pace of transmissibility—we will know if we are in a green zone, where we can proceed, if we are in a yellow zone, where we should look carefully, or if we are in a red zone, where we should stop and perhaps go back. I believe that this is an understandable matrix, and the idea that we have to keep in mind in our mind is that it is fundamental—it is the only guarantee of success that we have in the fight against this pandemic, which is still the same—we will maintain individual protection, using masks, washing hands, keeping the physical distance. This is the fundamental thing, because it is what each of us can control; it tells more about the social dynamics that is generated and that can run well, how happily it ran during many periods of this pandemic, or run tragically, as it did during the month of January. I therefore appeal to everyone for the scrupulously respect for the rules and, above all, for the rules of individual protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u59	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u60	Mr President, Prime Minister, it was not fair because Mr Prime Minister knows what we told him at the meeting, which was absolutely consistent with what I said here today. So don't say that we came to criticize the back because what we said before was what I said here today. Mr. Prime Minister, another issue has to do with the Recovery and Resilience Plan. Mr Prime Minister announced — on 15th — that there were 15 days of public consultation and that he would send it on 1st day to Brussels. I ask you, have you already sent or have you not sent? What is the point of the situation? Are you negotiating? What's going on now? Secondly, did he incorporate the contributions of those 15 days, which the Government would have said would have been a few thousand, or did he not incorporate those same contributions? Thirdly, does this plan have, or does it not, the incidence and impact of this third wave and this second general confinement and implies, or does it not, any adaptation? There is, or not, a difference between the Government's own understanding and some Brussels understanding, according to which we should not invest so much on bridges, roads, etc. Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u61	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u62	Mr President, this is my last question: is it or not Mr Prime Minister, as the CDS has defended, available to bring this plan here to Parliament, and we have, briefly, and before sending it to Brussels, a session in Parliament to discuss the Recovery and Resilience Plan?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u63	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u64	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, I will try to be a telegraph. First of all, we have not yet sent him to Brussels. The contributions have been very enriching — 1661 contributions — and therefore the Government has been giving due consideration to all of them, which, of course, has led the Government to extend the period for drawing up this programme. Secondly, as you know, the rule of distribution of funds per country had a first indicative value on the basis of product impact forecasts in 2020 and 2021 and then a second revision, which will be carried out in 2022 having already taken into account the achievement of the effective results of 2020 and 2021, therefore, of course, these results will have an impact. This is a programme that has a great impact on the economy, which does not only have the 4 billion that Mr Rui Rio recently referred to companies, has much more. The public order to companies is over EUR 11 billion and we are talking about direct support to companies, which is a different thing. Mr President, as far as the debate here in Parliament is concerned, you are late. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] I recall that, at the request of the Government, a specific debate was held here on the Recovery and Resilience Plan, last September, that of all the banks received zero response, totally disinterested, and that it was only left for history by Mr Rui Rio then announced that it was against the increase of the national minimum wage in 2021. It was the only useful contribution I took from this House to the Recovery and Resilience Plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u65	For the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u66	Mr President, Prime Minister : I was very pleased when I heard that the government was going to comply with the NAP proposal in the State Budget for 2021 and make a strategic environmental assessment for different locations of the new Lisbon airport. But then you read the news, I realized you didn't. What the government is going to do is a fictitious strategic environmental assessment, which compares only two locations, namely, the Lisbon plus Montijo solution in two options of distinct intensity and the Alcochete solution. What is being done is a conditional assessment at the beginning. I ask you, Prime Minister, why does the government not make a serious strategic environmental assessment, including the Beja option? Are you afraid of the results of the evaluation? Are you afraid that the result will prove that Beja's solution is the most appropriate?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u67	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u68	Mr President, Mr André Silva, the country has been walking for almost 60 years—almost since I was born—to discuss the location of this new airport in Lisbon. For decades, studies were conducted between two alternative solutions, Ota and Rio Frio. The country fell in love - for this discussion - were those of the party of Ota and the party of Rio Frio. Then, one beautiful day, the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal) did a study, then the President of the Republic sponsored this study and the government of then gave the arm to twist, ceased to be of the party of Ota, no one was of the party of Rio Frio and became a great national consensus: Alcochete! And finally, it was Alcochete. This great national consensus I believe lasted there six months, one year. A new government came and this new government 'buried' Alcochete and decreed that no airport was needed, because all the search studies were megalomanous and Portugal would never need a new airport, because there would never be that demand. Of course, it did not take more than two years for this government to conclude that, perhaps, the figures were not megalomanic, that, perhaps, the demand was even growing much higher than that which these megalomanic studies had before and therefore an urgent new airport was. And he found a solution, which was agreed in the privatisation process of ANA — Airports of Portugal, which was decided that, from a certain passenger threshold, ANA might have the option to make a new airport and indicate where he wanted to do it. There was an understanding of your location in Montijo. When I arrived at the government, and not meeting the tradition of everything that had happened in the previous 60 years, the first thing I did was not to review the decision that the previous government had made, but to say: « no, we will maintain the decision that the previous government has taken because, after 60 years of discussion, the time for discussion has ended; now is the time to comply». [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we're really in a fight against time. This solution did not prove feasible on a legal basis and then the Government once and for all understood to make the strategic environmental assessment, not between two but between three solutions: Alcochete, Portela plus Montijo or Montijo plus Portela. These are the three solutions that are on the table. I think that the country can't multiply other solutions, but, from now on to 60 years, someone will still be here discussing where the construction of the new airport in Lisbon is going to be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u69	Mr André Silva, of the NAP, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u70	Mr President, Prime Minister did not answer my question: why is Beja not included in the strategic environmental assessment? The State indirectly controls Groundforce at 49 % by TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) and Portugal. We ask: how is it possible that the government has allowed the company to reach a situation like this, with the actions of the private shareholder hanged in the bank? Does the company's parasocial agreement provide no safeguards for these situations and rights of preference? If he does not foresee, Mr. Prime Minister, should he not foresee? Don't you think it's irresponsible not to predict?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u71	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, given the short time I have, I have already responded to that question from Groundforce. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u73	Mr André Silva continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u74	Mr Prime Minister, this issue has certainly not answered. Another subject. This is the second year in which children and young people have been interrupted for reasons that do not fit them but that will surely have impacts on their present and future. The promised digital transition did not happen, but neither did educational communities lower their arms and deserve all respect. It is up to the State to the greatest extent of all responsibilities: to ensure that no student is forgotten, that no condition of inequality is worsened by the COVID-19. We believe that simple measures to extend the school year or increase work and school hours are not enough, what is needed, from our point of view, is that there is a rapid adaptation of curricular programmes and content, ensuring the development of fundamental skills and knowledge each year and study cycles, without reducing quality, but quantity, without removing value, bringing innovation to the educational process, without further removing those who have less support opportunities and without this political vision will fall into a deeper and longer gap of inequalities. The question is simple, Prime Minister : will the Government adapt curricula and curricular content?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u75	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u76	Mr President, Mr President, even more telegraphically, given the time I have: the government will do everything and we have no doubt that the great requirement we now have is the recovery of lost learning. We will do everything necessary for it to happen in this generation and that this generation will not be irremediably affected by these two educational interruptions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u77	Mr André Silva continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u78	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, the culture sector lives on difficult days and this has clear responsibility for both the structural precariousness of the sector — which the Government intends not to resolve by leaving in the drawer, for example, the status of the cultural professional, which is provided for in the State budget and which will give important guarantees to intermittent workers — either by the clear insufficiency of the value of the support to the sector professionals, who have been announced by the Government with a large pump but already found in the State budget. In addition, these support exclude numerous professionals from the culture sector only due to an economic activity code or the IRS ( Single Persons Income Tax Code ). Mr. Prime Minister, if you are a advocate of the social state, as you say you are, you will know that the social emergency does not rhyme with bureaucracy, obstacles and weak support. So I ask you when you are going to comply with the NAP proposal, approved here, in order to speed up these support and include all workers in the areas of the shows and events that are in the area of culture and are not covered in the current framework of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u79	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u80	Mr President, Mr André Silva, first of all, I would like to say that the status of cultural professionals will be approved in a Council of Thematic Ministers on Culture, which will take place on 22 April. Secondly, of course, the measures we have announced are the measures that enable us to implement the State budget, because we cannot, in fact, adopt measures which are not provided for in the State budget, since we are limited by the authorization that the Assembly of the Republic makes the expenditure that we can carry out, and that is, of course, what we do. It is precisely to combat bureaucracy and the different specificities of each of the cultural workers that we have a set of specific support for the cumulative, indeed, cultural workers with the support that exists for the self-employed, because we bear in mind that the specificity of this sector does not allow them to refocus entirely on the situations specified in the social security support for the self-employed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u81	You have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u82	With Mr President's condescendence, I give one last reply which I just didn't have the opportunity to give to the honourable Member. The great reason why Beja cannot be placed, that is, because it makes no sense to put Beja in this assessment, is the following: the airport further from an urban center that exists is 66 km away. Lisbon is at a distance of 129 km from Beja and this is unavailable, so it doesn't make sense to put that airport anymore in the equation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u83	It is the turn of the Greens Parliamentary Group. Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, we have recently heard Mr Prime Minister say that in the case of EDP the government had to comply with the law and therefore authorized the sale of the dams. It is unfortunate not to have had the same position in the case of Montijo airport because, in this case, in order not to comply with the law, the government intends to alter it. In other words, the government does not want to interfere with the powers of others, particularly the Tax Authority, but in the case of the airport it wants to withdraw powers from local authorities. But, Prime Minister, this intention to change the law only with the aim of passing over the municipal chambers which give opinions that do not please the Government, besides representing a very serious precedent in a democratic rule of law—only comparable, indeed, to the famous comma in the time of Miguel Cadilhe— still reminds the citizen that he intends to park the car in a place where it is forbidden and solves the problem in this way: start the traffic signal, keep it in the trunk of the car and park comfortably. The Greens therefore consider this government maneuver to be more a boy-spertism attitude than a ruler who conceals the sign of transit. It may even be fair to involve the PSD in this maneuver, given the responsibilities that the PSD has in the process, particularly with the privatisation of ANA, but also with the commitments it has made with Vinci. Even so, Prime Minister, it was important to understand why the government is asking for urgency in the diploma if the PSD itself stated that it would not be available for the specific case of the airport procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u85	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u86	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, as far as urgency is concerned, is the obvious reason that the country has been late in building the airport for decades. So if there is even something that is urgent, this is urgent. As far as the question of the competence of local authorities is concerned, I believe that all of us, if we abstain from the actual topic of the airport, ask whether a specific municipality can have the power of veto over a work of national public interest, will of course not say that, because of course, a specific municipality cannot have the power of veto over a work which has a large impact that transcends its competence. My conviction, in fact, as a lawyer, if I may, is that the interpretation of the law was very clear. The competence conferred on municipalities was to decide on the two criteria on which they had specific interest: first, limitations on the right to buildability and, secondly, environmental impacts on their territory. Only on these two reasons is that municipalities could have the power to pronounce themselves. All other reasons, namely to say that they do not think it should be here, should be there, should be in Monte Real, should be in Alcochete, should be in Sintra, should be everywhere where you have already planned to make an airport, effectively cannot be a municipality to condition the state for that. Therefore, from the outset, I think that the legal interpretation that has been made is absolutely absurd. But in view of this, and since we have not changed the law until there is a final decision of NAV Portugal, here arrived, we have to change the law. And the law must be amended here in the Assembly of the Republic. What the Government does is take the initiative to submit a bill to the Assembly of the Republic. The Assembly of the Republic is sovereign. If the Assembly of the Republic understands that, from now on, any municipality has this veto power, we risk not only having the airport as having no work, because who is it that guarantees it, to you, that, if the decision is Alcochete, the municipalities all of the Setúbal peninsula, which voted in favour of the Montijo solution, will allow it to take place in Alcochete? Or does the municipality of Montijo have less competence than the municipality of Moita? Oh, my God! No, you don't! He has the same powers. He has the same powers! What if you decide it's Alcochete and Montijo say no? Then I want to see how they get out. Then they say that, then, it's not there anymore, it's Rio Frio, and there's a third that says no. Then they say it's Beja and the city of Porto says no. I mean, there will always be a municipality that can say no. It can't be! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u87	The port is not neighbouring Beja!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u88	The Group of the Greens, through Mr José Luís Ferreira, continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u89	Mr President, Prime Minister, the question you ask about the issue of the diploma must be asked to the Socialist Party, because it was the Government of the Socialist Party that passed that decree. So I'm not the one who has to answer you, it's the Socialist Party. Then Mr Prime Minister, when he says that it is urgent, indeed, it is urgent, but I will remind him that in November 2019, here in the Hemicycle, I drew the attention of Mr Prime Minister to the fact that he has now been confirmed: the regulator had no alternative to make it possible. That was said. So we lost a year and a half. Mr. Prime Minister, I do not advise you much to talk about studies. Mr. Prime Minister tells me that we have been studying for 50 years, but someone may ask you « Mr. Prime Minister, then tell me a study indicating Montijo as a good location» and Mr. Prime Minister has no study to support it. Mr. Prime Minister said that the Government intended to move forward with the strategic environmental assessment. No, the government is complying with a rule that is in the State budget, which was adopted on a proposal from the Greens—as Mr André Silva said, because the NAP proposal was tacitly damaged, because the Government would already be obliged to make the strategic environmental assessment. I would also like to ask you another question about the issue of vaccination. The European Union has financed, with public resources, the production of vaccines, financed the research, financed the tests and their development, financed risk insurance, fully disresponsible the pharmaceuticals for the case of the trial and even purchased the vaccines in advance, but abrogated any property rights on the patent which it has just financed. The result was that the rate of production of vaccines was conditioned by the management that pharmacists make of the process, depending, of course, on their commercial interests. Mr Prime Minister, in view of the delays in the availability of vaccines, would it not be time for our country to consider the acquisition of vaccines outside the framework of the European Union?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u90	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u91	I will finish, Mr. President. On the treasury fund, which the Government has submitted until the end of this month, I would like to ask Mr Prime Minister whether, from 1 April, this treasury fund, which was the proposal submitted by the Greens, is even in force. [[Applause from the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u92	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u93	Mr President, starting at the end, Mr. Minister of Economy says that in the coming weeks the treasury fund will be in force. For vaccines, Member of the European Union, we cannot use vaccines which are not licensed by the European Medicines Agency. All those licensed by the European Medicines Agency were purchased by the European Commission. All those licensed by the European Medicines Agency shall be purchased by the European Union. Unfortunately, I said recently, the problem is not in the patents, because there are legal mechanisms that solve the problem. The problem is a central issue, which has to do with production capacity, which results from a given, in addition, essential, which is this: never in the history of humanity was needed to produce such a quantity of vaccines in such a short period of time. Therefore, the global installed capacity for vaccine production has the conditioning that you have and many people, I can assure you, walks around the world looking to increase production capacity. Those who are able to do so - they will make a lot of money, but I must also tell you that it is well deserved, well used, because if there is something absolutely urgent, we must ensure the vaccination of Portuguese, Europeans and, more than that, of the entire world population, because there can be no one in any country in the world who has no right to access to vaccine. That's the only way we'll all be vaccinated. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u94	Mr André Ventura, from the CH, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u95	Mr President, Prime Minister, at the beginning of his term of office said the age of reform is not to move. For we all know how old the reform has increased this week! I ask you, eyes in your eyes, whether in a country that gives tax stamps to EDP, which wastes money on the New Bank that never ends again, which pays vital subsidies to prisoners who continue to pay penalty, if you feel good about being pensioners paying the bill of the crisis? I ask you if you can live with this and ask you if you can consider that the reform will increase further during the time of your mandate. He also said he was going to pay the allowance to health professionals and hasn't paid yet. It is also true that you have not yet paid the security forces professionals. I ask you whether by June you will or will not fulfill what the government has promised, i.e. the risk allowance for the security forces. It is that it begins to seem, Mr. Prime Minister, that his famous intervention in Portalegre, in which he said he would quickly have a guard training center, and even received the key from the city of Portalegre for that. It was in 2006, we are in 2021 and there is no guard center. I hope that by 2031 there will be subsidies for the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u96	He's assuming we're here in 2031! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u97	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u98	Mr. President, Mr. André Silva, as you know, or I assume you know... André Ventura, excuse me! Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u99	He's used to compliments!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u100	It's a compliment!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u101	Excuse me, Mr. André Silva. Mr. André Ventura, as you will know, there is a formula that calculates the retirement age. This formula has not been changed, as we had promised, and every year it adjusts the age of the planned reform. In fact, according to recent forecasts on the performance of the economy in the past year, next year the same formula will have the reverse effect, reducing the age of the reform. That is the formula and we must maintain this stability, because it is absolutely essential for the stability of the social security system. As for the rest, as I have already had the opportunity to say, the Minister of Health has already paid the risk allowance to health professionals. As for the other essential service professionals, particularly the security forces, the regulation by door is being completed and I thank you very much for your optimism that we will be here until 2031. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u102	Mr André Ventura, of the CH, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u103	Mr President, Prime Minister, it will only be in this chair in 2031 if I am no longer sitting in this chair here, because otherwise, it will certainly not be sitting there in that chair. She's certainly not sitting there in that chair. [[PS protests.]] It's a fact, you won't be sitting there in 2031, as long as your dreams are in that sense. Mr. Prime Minister, he had no courage in the measures he took. He closed the country, did what no country in Europe does, at the moment we are, some of them with much worse numbers than Portugal, took the easier way. In Spain, restaurants are open, in France, by region, tourism, commerce and restaurants are open, in Italy the same thing, and we arrived here...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u104	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u105	Mr. President, I will finish. I could not conclude by outside influence of the Socialist Party, but I will now conclude. [[PS laughter.]] Failures increased by 32 %. The hour you're sitting there, Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u106	Mr. Deputies, you have exceeded your time. So I think that's enough, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u107	I will now finish, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, at the time you're sitting there, you're closing up more companies. I ask you if you feel well with half a million unemployed people enrolled in unemployment centres, with their confinement, because this is the confinement...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u108	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u109	... that will forever be associated with your government. That is why in 2031 it will certainly not be in that chair anymore.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u110	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u111	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, thank you very much for helping me to refocus. In view of Mr Telmo Correia's speech, which wanted us to go more slowly, and Mr Exa, who wants us to go faster, only reinforces my idea that, even between the CDS and the CH, we have a position of virtue, good sense, prudence,... [[PS's laughter and applause.]] ...that, everything recommends, be the correct attitude this year of the pandemic. Mr President, if you will allow me, just one last sentence, to say the following: Mr André Ventura, Mr. He is there because he was defeated in the presidential elections, because he did everything to get out of this chair and go sit down in a chair in Bethlehem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u112	You have the floor by the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u113	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in an interview of less than two weeks ago, Mr Prime Minister had this beautiful phrase: « this crisis was the greatest warning of the failure of the neoliberal vision ». Can you explain to me the difference between liberalism and neoliberalism? [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u114	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer. [[Pause.]] Mr Prime Minister, if you don't want to, you don't answer, but if you want to, you have to speak up.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u115	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, I think it is a delicate form that was found not to call those who were, at the end of the 20th century, to unearth the ideas that had been duly buried at the beginning of the 20th century. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u116	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, IL, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u117	Mr. Prime Minister, very well, it took your time. I do not know what I would have noticed in Political Sciences, but it is an answer, because surely your numerous political and communication advisers must have already espoused the programme and the public positions of the Liberal Initiative and should have told you that we are not neoliberal. If they did not say, they are still numerous but are not as capable, because in this same interview it justifies the failure of neoliberalism with three performances: the performance of the SNS (National Health Service ), the one who, to turn to the COVID, has stopped all other diseases, causing thousands of deaths in excess, who still have no responsibility today and that you have come to attribute to the heat and cold of 2020, as if it were the first time that there was summer or winter in Portugal. Nor do I see the great virtues that he attributed to the performance of public school in socialism, a public school whose only miracle is to have managed to secure the tele-sense despite continuing without the internet and the computers that you promised in April and which have not yet arrived. Neither do I see great virtues of socialism in this. And the role of social benefits was what? Compensate those who had jobs, income or business and were affected by government decisions. And make up for what? With the tax money they had paid in the past. I don't think it would be a great favor for the state to return to people the money they had already paid. Neither do I see great virtues of socialism in this. Mr Prime Minister, do you think it is honest, in times of emergency, to use the measures that each one defends to characterize each other's political coherence? It's because if that's what's honest, I also know how to do this game. I indicate that the socialism that the PS defends for Portugal is the socialism that prefers to have the borders closed, people without being able to change the council or collect it mandatory. Is this what you think is honest?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u118	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u119	Mr President, honourable Member, one of the most curious things in this debate, in time of the pandemic, is to see the tone...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u120	On the right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u121	... of the different derivatives of the right in relation to the matter of confinement: those who closed most, those who opened everything, those who opened almost everything and those who prudently talk about other subjects, which is to go through the raindrops, to see if no one asks them what they would really do in case of need. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, excuse me for not being too bad, but there is some immodesty on your part to think that I was even thinking about you when I gave that answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the IL João Cotrim de Figueiredo.]] That answer, moreover, more than the negative side, which was that of those who were defeated, was to value what seemed to me, and it seems important to value and that I think it is today a huge consensus throughout the country. It is that, at this moment when we live the most dramatic crisis that we have ever lived and that we never imagined we could even live, the truth is that it was in the National Health Service, in public school and in social security, supported by all our contributions, that all those who have become afflicted have found their support. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This means that the social state is a huge added value for the fate of all those who defend it and know that, for it to exist, it is necessary, indeed, to pay taxes and that each one pays them according to its contribution capacity. These are two fundamental ideas that have been clearly reinforced. Who thinks otherwise, indeed, has been defeated in this debate throughout this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u122	To close this first round of questions and answers, the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor, through Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : In fact, I thought we were coming to a debate in which nothing had happened in recent times and, above all, we had not started this week our defination process. Mr. Prime Minister has already mentioned the various tonics of those who wanted everything open, semi-closed, faster, less fast. But the truth, Prime Minister, is that the week we started this defination we have to give a word of confidence, of encouragement, of optimism, with the necessary dose of realism to know that we have not yet won this crisis but that we are doing everything to win the future with this plan of defination, which we want, of the country, with vaccination and also with economic and social recovery. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, Prime Minister, that at times particularly demanding and crisis is absolutely essential — when it is difficult, Mr Ventura — to give the answers that are realistic, moderate, balanced, balanced, but which actually respond to people's problems, not with simplicity, not with great slogans. But, above all, I wanted to go back here and stress it, because it is very important what happened in the last year, the resilience of the Portuguese, of each of the Portuguese who was confronted with a loss of income, the fruit of the closed activity, or who kept his job but had to go home and adapt to the new world, in the face of which one thing is certain: the State did not fail them, the strong social state answered. I find it absolutely remarkable that, at this hour and a half of debate, there has been no one on the side of those who over the past year have claimed more and more investment in the National Health Service, a word to welcome here the herculeum effort in the National Health Service,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... not only in investment in money, but also in more health professionals. More than 10 000 health professionals in the last year, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this has enabled us to respond to the health crisis. It was the strong social state that responded with social protection, with the extension of the unemployment allowance, with the increase of the social unemployment allowance, with a new social benefit, so that no one could see their incomes diminished. This is the difference, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is even the difference, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, between the right and the left. It is that, in this crisis, the social state did not respond with cuts,... [[Protests by the Member of the IL João Cotrim de Figueiredo.]] ... the social state did not cut income, did not increase taxes, the social state kept the job, maintained social protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why we're here today, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a year after this crisis has begun in Portugal, to say that we can look to the future with confidence. And the first word of confidence which I think the Portuguese would like to hear, Mr. Prime Minister, and that this bench would like Mr. Prime Minister here to say, was that, with so much walking back and forth as to the suspension of vaccines, we can be confident that the vaccination plan that is stipulated will be fulfilled, that the goal of people over 80 years old will be vaccinated by the end of March will be fulfilled and that, regardless of the progress we think there has been this past year—it took a decade to find a vaccine and, in one year, we could find hope in a vaccine—this sign that the scientific community has already come to give, that we can continue with the AstraZeneca vaccine, allows us to give confidence to the Portuguese that the vaccination plan will follow. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order to win the future it is necessary to speak of the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ). Mr Telmo Correia is no longer here, but I would like you to. Members would remember that, despite this crisis, in the fourth quarter of last year, our economy has shown resilience. And it has shown resilience, because over five years it has been possible to develop an economic and financial policy that has enabled this year to respond to the crisis. This Recovery and Resilience Plan required exactly what Mr. Members, but Mr Telmo Correia forgot that in September we had a discussion on this plan and the only proposal that arose was that of Mr Rui Rio, who said « it is not worth raising the national minimum wage by 2021, because if we increase the national minimum wage, here-d' el-rei, the public accounts go up ». But, Prime Minister, we also need to win the future with this resilience plan. I understand that the benches do not want to talk about this, but if it is true that, with this crisis, we have accentuated or detached some of the structural weaknesses that we have and have been responding, it is also true that, ahead, we need to continue to give answers and the main answer we have to give is that of the qualifications. And with a year of pandemic, no one realized that, for example, there are positive signs in the qualification of Portuguese. The fact is that the school failure rate has dropped significantly, as it did not fall for a long time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All of this, Mr. Members, to say that it is only possible to speak in an economic recovery if we speak in Portuguese as a whole, in the efforts of each of the Portuguese, and to bet strongly on the qualifications to meet the two strategic challenges we have for the next few years, namely the digital transition and the climate transition to a sustainable and more developed society. I will finish, Prime Minister, by saying whether or not we can face the future with confidence. Yesterday, one more of the international bodies predicted an economic growth for Portugal of 4, 8 %, provided that in 2021, we could resume our economic activity and that in 2022 and 2023, we could resume the path that we were taking before the pandemic. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if we are able to maintain incomes, support the economy, protect those who need the most, we will be able to win together with a good defination plan, a good vaccination plan and a good project for economic and social recovery, because that is what the Portuguese expect from a responsible government, as has been the Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u124	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u125	Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, first of all, I thank you for your questions. One of the most curious expressions I have heard in recent times, whether from political leaders or even from many citizens on the street, is "I did not like to be in your place", but there is one thing I would like to say: I have a lot of honour to be in this place, at the moment the country faces. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I do not want anyone who has ever to face what we have faced over the past year and I want to thank everyone in the way we have, together, done so in the face of all the differences that, many or few, exist. This, in fact, is a very great proof to which our democratic regime has been subject. We have lived immense times in a state of emergency and constitutional exception without the fundamental freedoms being brought into question, without the freedom of the press being called into question, without the political rights being called into question. We have already carried out two electoral acts during all these states of emergency, with democracy functioning in full, and Parliament has never stopped its activities. I think this is absolutely fundamental. But, obviously, this is a circumstance whose management is characterized by uncertainty, and uncertainty to where least is expected. What has led the Government to suspend, for two or three days, the administration of the AstraZeneca vaccine was the fact that, in the face of the doubts raised, the confidence of the population in the vaccines they are receiving is absolutely essential and, to that end, it is important to wait for the re-evaluation of the World Health Organization, which was already being done and the results of which it published recently, saying yes, that the vaccine is effective and safe, as well as the re-evaluation of EMA (European Medicines Agency), which we will know, I believe, on Thursday. Let us therefore wait for what you will say, because this is fundamental to the tranquillity of all. I say this because, as I have already said, I have been vaccinated myself, I have already received the first dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine and, therefore, I realize the concern of those who have already been vaccinated with the quality of the vaccine and also that of those who expect to be vaccinated, in view of the impact that may have on the fact that we cannot count on that vaccine. But the truth is that the whole vaccination plan has been carried out so far, as planned. We already have several categories of the first phase covered at 100%, we will maintain the target of 80% of the population over 80 years of age being vaccinated by the end of this month, but we have already vaccinated at 100% of the hemodialysed patients and many of the fundamental sectors of our society. Therefore, this is a process that is under way and we must continue with it, of course, subject to the adjustments that these vicissitudes will provoke. Two or three days without administering vaccines are necessarily going, as Mr. Vice-Admirante Gouveia and Melo said, to produce a few days' delay in the vaccination plan. It was expected that by the next weekend, the vaccination campaign for teaching and non-teaching school staff would begin and we will have to postpone for a week, but the truth is that never in such a short time, as this time, science has managed to create a vaccine and the industry has managed to produce it, and it is being distributed and inoculated, so we are moving forward. The same is true of those who are the economic challenges. We have seen a situation in which, fortunately, the prudent budgetary management that we have made during the last legislature has enabled us to reach the end of 2019 with a budgetary surplus and, in particular, at the level of job creation results, to strengthen the sustainability of social security. Social security has gained 22 years of solidity throughout the last legislation and that is what enabled us to have "muscle" for, already last year, we had the capacity to respond. We all remember that the big debate in the State budget for 2020 was about whether or not we were going to have a large budget surplus by 2020. Fortunately, we had it in 2019, because in 2020 we even had one of the biggest deficits, if not the biggest, of the last decades.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u126	That just daunts the criterion!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u127	I'm sorry. I didn't understand what you said.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u128	He's just underestimating the criterion!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u129	He just dabbles in the criterion, exactly! This budgetary capacity was of the greatest importance, just as it was of the utmost importance that the European Union took this time, contrary to what had happened in the previous crisis, which allowed us to control the markets, which allowed us to free ourselves from the share of the Stability Pact, which allowed us to create funding lines, in particular for employment support. The set of these measures was very important at this stage of the emergency, but there is more life beyond the emergency and this is the time when we have to be prepared for what follows. That is why, even before summer, we asked Prof. António Costa Silva to develop a strategic vision for the decade, so that the recovery and resilience program was consistent with Portugal 2030 and there were no measures found. That is why we were committed to making a major public debate on the Recovery and Resilience Plan, and it is extraordinary that we are now being asked to come here at the Assembly of the Republic, to discuss it when we brought this issue here, on our initiative, in September 2020 and nobody wanted to discuss anything about the recovery and resilience program. That is why it is essential that we be already moving forward in the negotiations with the European Commission on the difficult issues which the European Commission places on us, for example, with regard to fundamental investments, such as the Pision dam, for the development of the entire northern part of the country, and the development of small basic road links to cross-border links, to support the areas of business location of the interior, so that we can make full use of the country's road capacity. And at the same time, we are also making this dialogue with civil society—it is extraordinary that, in the middle of this pandemic, we have had 1661 contributions to this Recovery and Resilience Plan, which are worth our best attention—and working with the different social partners, with the local authorities, because this plan is essential for the recovery of the country. But at the same time, we are already moving forward with projects. In fact, yesterday a contest of ideas was launched for one of the fundamental works that will have the greatest impact on the mobility system of the Metropolitan Area of Porto. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must therefore, at the same time, be responding to the urgency of the day and preparing ourselves, from now on, in order to be able, as soon as this process is completed, from the point of view of parliamentary ratifications, of the own resources, of the approval of the entire regulatory framework, we can immediately implement this plan. When you ask whether we can have confidence in the future, there are two fundamental facts that I think we should all, as citizens, have the greatest confidence in the future. In the middle of this crisis, we were able last year to overcome the goal we had set to reduce the early school dropout rate to 10%. And we went further: it dropped to 8 %, 6 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is an extraordinary sign that, even in the most difficult situation, we have achieved it. This year, when the horizon of the future was as black as possible, Portuguese families did not hesitate as much as they wanted their children and what they wanted for the future of their children. It was this school year that we beat the record of the number of students attending higher education. There can be no better sign of confidence in the future than this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u130	Even in the time of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u131	Mr President, Prime Minister, the State budget for 2021 was presented as a budget to combat the public health crisis as well as the economic and social crisis. Even recently, the Minister for Finance announced in Parliament that the Government will not spare any effort in the necessary answers to the economy and families. In line with these commitments, the Government has been proposing a budgetary boost and the extension of measures to support the economy, businesses and families. It is a budgetary boost of EUR 7 billion and EUR 1600 million of this amount is largely lost. It has been this set of essential measures, such as Layoff or the APOIAR and Supporting Rentas programmes, which have enabled the level of employment to be maintained. Looking at other countries in our European area, we see employment falling in a more sudden way than in Portugal where this has not happened because of these measures that aim to encourage companies and the recovery of their activity. In fact, that's why entrepreneurs and companies are starting to look into the PRR. The Government's communication has been important, especially that of the Prime Minister, in the information being passed on to companies and their decision makers. Even recently, the European Commission has decided that it will suspend the European Treaty's budgetary rules on deficit and debt, allowing our country to better schedule the measures for 2021 and 2022 to support the economy and businesses. Mr Prime Minister has already recalled that PRR support for companies is not set at a third of direct support. There is also a share of this third, which is an indirect share of support for businesses and vocational training — in order to value the human resources of companies and the areas of business location within the country — as well as for new links to Spain, to the expansion of the networks of the meters of Lisbon and Porto and also to the building of housing for 26 000 families who are identified as living in an unworthy state.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u132	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u133	I will finish, Mr. President. This means that it is necessary to hire companies to carry out these works, either the works of expansion of the networks of the meters of Lisbon and Porto, or the construction of housing and of areas of business location. Therefore, this indirect support will reach businesses. I would like you to comment on this in the next round. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u134	Let us then move on to the second round of this debate. First of all, Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u135	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, allow me just briefly to return to a first round. I noted that it classified as ‘creative scheme’ what EDP used to avoid paying the taxes on the sale of dams. He also said that the government could not know the company that EDP created because it was not yet created when the government authorised the sale of the dams. I wanted to remind you that EDP informed the government that it was going to set up the company. Therefore, the government was in possession of all the data, both because EDP did not hide that it was going to have a company with a single official to stay with the six dams, as the Miranda Land Cultural Movement warned the Minister of the Environment of the tax scheme that was being prepared. Therefore, it is not the responsibility of the Tax Authority. It was even in the hands of the government to stop the business in this format. In any case, the Left Block asked a number of questions and requested a series of documentation from the Government as early as 1 March. Since we are all having difficulty understanding and accepting this « creative scheme », we would like to obtain the Prime Minister's commitment that these documents will reach the Assembly of the Republic. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question about the social and economic pandemic, because, as we know, the pandemic we are living is not just health. In Portugal, the use of moratoriums had a huge weight. We are one of the countries that most resorted to moratoriums in this response to the crisis and one of the countries that spent less on responding to the crisis last year. Therefore, moratoriums are very important in this case. As you know, the moratoriums of the Portuguese Banks Association end at the end of this month of March. There is a possibility of passing into public moratoriums, but in fact, the Left Block continues to have many complaints from those who are receiving the letters from the bank saying that the moratorium has already ended, in the full state of emergency, in full pandemic. Question: What is the Government doing in particular to ensure that moratoriums do not end at the end of this month and that families and businesses continue to have access to this fundamental environment? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u136	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa. [[Pause.]] I'm sorry, but only now have I been informed that you are the Minister of Economics who will respond. Minister Siza Vieira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u137	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I answer the question of bank moratoriums by saying three things. First of all, a first stage of decision was adopted at the last Council of Ministers, extending the deadline for missing the lines guaranteed by the State which were launched last year. We have extended it in nine months, which is at the moment the maximum that the European Banking Authority allows to extend. But this prevents many companies from already beginning to repay capital from the credit lines that have been guaranteed by the State and which already reach more than EUR 8 billion. Secondly, in fact, we have launched bank moratoriums which are still available until 31 March of this year for all persons who are unemployed or who have lost income for other reasons. in this sense, the situation of these people is guarded. The banks launched, according to their customers, moratoriums for people who were not in receipt or with loss of income, i.e. simply needed another type of support. As far as these are concerned, we did not intervene. The situation is cautious about people with a loss of income. Finally, there is the situation of companies in general, which are currently benefiting from moratoriums and for which the Government has supported and has worked with the other authorities, in order, especially for the most affected sectors, to find ways of refinancing these debts or extending their maturity, to monitor the capacity that companies will have to be able to generate revenue to respond to this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u138	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u139	Mr President, Minister, we know the deadlines for the moratoriums launched by the State. I was talking about the other moratoriums, the moratoriums launched by the bank. Our concern is very simple: it is that all people who meet the criteria of the moratoriums launched by the State can pass from the moratoriums created by the bank, which end in March, to the moratoriums of the State, so that all of them can be protected. We know of many cases where this is not happening, because we are receiving excessive letters with these requests. It seems to us that the government must act, and act quickly, to protect people. The worst thing we could have, both for the bank and for the families, was to push them into a bad credit scenario. It is this scenario that must be stopped, even more so because, as we know, support is slow. I would like to draw attention to this because today we have spoken about this — for example, in the case of culture, where the support that was announced in January has not yet reached anyone. The Minister has already announced new support in March, but it was good for something to be done, because the fact that there are so many announcements for so little execution creates difficulties in people's lives. But, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers — I do not know who will respond to this new model — I would also like to tell you about telework. There are currently a million workers in telework in Portugal, some already a year ago. We are talking about state workers, call centers, banking, insurance and, finally, other activities, but in these with a great dominance. We have cost problems. We know that the costs of telework are falling on the workers. The family light account increased by an average of 15 %, the Internet account increased by 36 % and the 12 % voice calls account, knowing services saving about 20 % in expenditure, in particular energy. It is therefore necessary to take decisions on the division of these costs, as is necessary also to make decisions on the life of these workers and on respect for their right to rest and their right to disconnect. I heard Mr. Prime Minister say, a little while ago, that a green book will be prepared, but a year ago, practically, that there are a million workers in telework. We need to act faster. In particular, I am asking the following question: does the Government not consider that it is necessary to find instruments of collective regulation on the costs that workers have at home, because they are in telework, particularly when we already have these data from increasing the account of light and communications, which has not been compensated? I also ask: does the Government not understand that this is the time for us to move forward with the right to disconnect, the right to disconnect? It just can't be on the worker's side. It is not enough to tell the worker that he is not obliged to answer outside the working hours, because we know how this works. We know that if the employer sends the instruction out of working hours and has no answer, the worker will be penalized for having responded, or not, out of working hours. And if the worker shuts down and fulfills the hours of work, he can see his precarious contract not to be renewed or can see his progression in the stopped career. We know how this greatly disbalances workers, particularly workers, who are usually those with responsibilities at home, who have the greatest difficulty in responding out of hours and are therefore those who systematically look at their precarious contracts without being renewed or limited in the progression of their careers. Therefore, the Government, which wanted, in fact, to combine some of the measures of protection to the family with gender equality, would have to consider at this time that no one, no employer and no superior hierarchical can contact a worker outside the working time, when he does not have time-free and there is no relevant reason to justify it. Being in telework cannot be an excuse for all abuse and for the end of the right to rest. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u140	To answer, you have the floor to Ms. Minister of Labour and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, because the support was mentioned, I think it was important to make a point of view of the support paid, since we have made a completely extraordinary mobilization of public resources to deal with the moment we live, whether in terms of the size of the protection of employment, whether in terms of the protection of the income of self-employed, of the workers of culture, or in terms of the protection of the most vulnerable. So far we have support paid to 2 million and 800 thousand people in Portugal, including 168 000 companies, in the dimension of employment protection, which means EUR 3, 2 billion paid in this dimension of extraordinary support, including the size of the protection of cultural workers. By the way, I also give the information that our great concern has been this focus on protecting workers and strengthening these support by 2021. at present, we have 487 000 workers directly covered by employment measures and 80 000 companies. With regard to the question which you have put, in particular on the Green Paper, we would like to put it, at the end of this month' s social dialogue. It resulted in a very involved process, much discussed, because, from the outset, we have identified that for the moment we are living, we needed to accelerate our priorities in relation to new forms of work, in the various dimensions: whether on digital platforms, whether in remote work, whether in digital nomads or in the reconciliation of personal and family life, or whether we need more prepared social security and adapted to these new forms. We want to ensure that it is social security for all, including, covering new forms of work in order to ensure that everyone is part of the social protection system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our concern is not only to anticipate and regulate these new ways, but also to act now. In fact, when we regulate the various measures of limitation or, for example, compulsory telework, where compatible, we follow these measures with exceptional measures to regulate the rules of telework under these conditions - we did not wait for the revision of the legislation on telework - stressing which concerns should be safeguarded, in particular the payment of expenditure, and the payment of expenses with communications and the Internet, the food allowance and who is responsible for the work equipment is expressly planned. Regulating the emergency, working in the structural : this has been our concern. In fact, that is why we tried to separate what was emerging and urgent from the rapid evolution of telework. Just think that telework in Portugal, about a year ago, was completely residual and suddenly accelerated its need for health reasons. Therefore, our priority is to ensure that we have the ability to find balance between telework opportunities, but above all, the need to regulate and minimize the risks associated with the reconciliation of personal and family life, the organization of working time and safety and health issues at work, as well as, of course, to strengthen supervision, which is what we have done. Our commitment is complete to promote balance and find solutions that ensure that we anticipate this future that has become present. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u142	Mr Catarina Martins continued to use the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u143	Mr President, Minister, it is a year of pandemic. We know there was support. I wanted to be! Open... What we are talking about is what we are talking about, is about the announcements that are made and repeated of measures that are not enough and, in relation to telework, the fact that the Government has shown concern — and has demonstrated — has not actually been translated into concrete mechanisms to prevent abuse. He exists, he must be prevented and we're already late!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u144	We're working on it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u145	In the short few seconds that I have, I wanted to make two things happen. First of all, I noted that Mr Prime Minister has not responded to my request for the compromise that the dam decision documents will arrive at Parliament. Secondly, in an answer he gave in the first round to the Portuguese Communist Party, in fact, he did not say in concrete terms what the solution for Groundforce is. I recall that Groundforce did not make payments, particularly on 12th day of social security, and that it does not have access to layoff at the moment. Therefore, the situation of workers is particularly complicated, so I assume that the government has already thought about what it will do. We are certainly not going to lose a company that has always been profitable and that is strategic for the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u146	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u147	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, with regard to Groundforce, I have already had an opportunity to answer. As you know, we proposed that there should be an increase in capital so as to be able to provide the company with the means necessary to operate and, above all, to carry out its duties, from the start of paying wages to workers. We cannot continue to find solutions that do not guarantee the recovery of money invested by taxpayers. That, therefore, is absolutely essential. As regards documents, Mr President-in-Office for Parliamentary Affairs tells me that this issue is still within the deadline and that we will respond to the request within the prescribed time limit, as it is our duty to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u148	It is the turn of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, and Mr José Luís Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u149	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by congratulating the Government, the Prime Minister, and also the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs on the results which can already be seen as positive in relation to the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union. It is important to point out the results in the preparation of the Conference on the Future of Europe. It will certainly be the time when citizens and citizens will meet again with their institutions and with this project of European moral and material progress, as Mário Soares described in 1976, precisely in the city of Porto. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also in the port that this Social Summit will take place, which shows the relevance of the integration of the Charter of Fundamental Social Rights into the Treaty of Lisbon, precisely during the Portuguese Presidency of 2007, and which will allow us to update the protection of work and prepare it for the demands, as Mr. Prime Minister said here - of the challenge of climate change and digital transition. It remains significant that it is in the port that Europe will open new horizons from a geopolitical and geostrategic point of view, launching the foundations of cooperation at the summit with India, certainly contributing to cooperation, trade, development and other strategic challenges, as is the case with connectivity, digital transition and climate change. I congratulate you, therefore, Mr Prime Minister and his Government for the results that can already be seen, even in the framework of such difficulties as those we are experiencing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, we have been fighting this pandemic for a year and it is possible to affirm and emphasise, as has already been said today, that this pandemic allows us to draw three fundamental conclusions: the first is that we have a quality democracy, a strong democracy, a healthy democracy; the second is that we have a social state that ensures that social and economic functions maintain their vitality, even in the most critical moments, such as the one we are living; and the third is that we are a cohesion and solidarity national community. From the beginning of this pandemic which, together with other Members and with Mr Prime Minister, could be in the first sessions of Infarmed and we soon learned that only a general confinement would allow for absolute control of the contagion and pandemic and that it was necessary to calibrate the measures between, on the one hand, the limitation of individual and collective movements, behaviours and attitudes of great responsibility and on the other hand, mechanisms and instruments supporting the vitality of our economy and the protection of the living conditions of our fellow citizens. That was the balance that was possible during this year of pandemic. We are entering a new phase of gradual decoupling, under observation, as has been said. This is a defination that has to be very rigorous and with the political decision based on three fundamental criteria: the incidence and the rate of infection, but also the response capacity of the National Health Service. And at the same time, as we always stand for, not forgetting the measures of economic and social support to revitalize the country's life. In our Parliamentary Group, we have always had an attitude in which we put ourselves on the side of solutions. We have not stopped presenting constructive proposals, suggestions and criticisms to the options that the government has taken. With this, we contribute to improve the answers we have given to the country. I would therefore like to welcome and stress the importance of the measures which the Ministries of Economics, Labour, Social Security, Culture and Education have launched this week and which enable them to strengthen and respond in a broader context, being more flexible and therefore become more effective, enabling them to guarantee and support the conditions of economic and social recovery. Mr. Prime Minister, I end with a question that contains encouraging signs, positive signs. This week, the President of the Board of Rectors of the Portuguese Universities, Mr. Professor Sousa Pereira, he said—as it was, in fact, underlined by Mr Prime Minister recently—that, fortunately, he continues to increase the number of students in higher education and that students are looking for the engineering and computer science because they are contemplating a change in the technological profile of our economy. At a time when we are at the door of an economic and social recovery plan, at a time when we are preparing our multiannual financial framework and the circumstances in which we are preparing the Portugal 2030 strategy, I ask the Prime Minister how he looks at public investment in the contribution he can make to modernising the country's economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u150	I would like to congratulate all of you. Ladies and gentlemen and all of you. Members of the Government. In reply, Mr Santos Silva has the floor from now on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u151	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put by Mr José Luís Carneiro and will respond to the European dimension, and for their questions. As one of the essential reasons of the Portuguese Presidency, as is known, the action, I mean it is the action but with the mobilization of all those concerned. When we talk about the Conference on the Future of Europe, how we organize it and how we will launch it on 9 May, we talk about the mobilization of European citizenship as such — of the institutions, of the Member States, of the national parliaments, but also of civil society, of each and every one of us. It is this mobilization of citizenship that is of the greatest importance and which is at the heart of the organisation and process relating to the Conference on the Future of Europe. However, we also need to mobilize the social partners: employers, workers, non-governmental organizations and their representatives and their organizations. That's also why we make the Port Social Summit. We therefore asked that the informal European Council, which will have the social theme in its heart and which will give an essential political orientation to the implementation of social rights in the European Union, should be preceded on the previous day by a high-level conference with the participation of the European institutions and with the participation of all the social partners organised at European level. Mobilization of citizenship on the one hand, mobilization of the social partners on the other, so that we all represent citizens and citizens themselves, democratic political institutions, but also the plurality of the organisations that make the rich European democratic fabric, to march together, to contribute together to the recovery of the economy and the recovery of the Portuguese and European social fabric in the post- pandemic. That is what this is about, according to the essential direction. It is not a question of mobilizing to debate, once again, issues of institutional architecture, but of mobilizing to find, together, concrete answers to our concrete problems. What are our concrete problems? It is the problem of the recovery of the European economy, which should be as fast and as strong as possible. But it is not just about recovering, it is about recovering by making it more resilient, that is, making it more capable of reacting to future shocks, transforming the economy into a more digital logic, into a greener logic. And to transform with everyone — from there again, the idea of everyone's mobilization. How does the economy change with everyone? It's not leaving anyone behind. It is clear that the market economy in the European Union is a social market economy and that, without the'social' adjective, the European economy would be much more fragile, much weaker, much more exclusive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But Europe is not alone and therefore whenever we say it — and well — that we want to strengthen the autonomy of the European Union, we say immediately thereafter that we want to strengthen the autonomy of the European Union by opening it up to the world. It is not closing itself that the European Union gains more strength, on the contrary, it is opening up more to the world. And, in order to open up more to the world, Europe must have regular political and economic relations with all the great blocks that make the world multipolarity: with Africa, certainly, with Latin America, but also with India and with the new and rising Indo-Pacific region. We now receive our partnership with the ASEAN countries ( Association of Southeast Asian Nations ) for a level of strategic partnership and we also want our relationship with India to be strong because it is the relationship between the two largest and most populous democracies in the world: India and the European Union. Which country is in a better position in the European Union to make this bridge to materialize this opening? For, certainly, among them, is Portugal, whose history is always the history of a clear insertion into Europe, able to open itself to the plurality of the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u152	I now give the floor to Mrs Elza Pais.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, I shall speak of an innovative standard of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which has to do with the integration of gender mainstreaming into the PRS of all Member States. We therefore greet you, you and the Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva. This is a norm that contains in itself a vision of the future to correct old and new inequalities that the crisis has put to the naked, to fight vulnerabilities and to face the future, i.e. knowing that the crisis has a woman's face, as recently António Guterres recalled, it is essential that the PRR correct these inequalities and vulnerabilities with specific measures, as it is anticipated in ours. I will mention only two examples of these new inequalities — I have no time for more — in strategic areas of the PRR, which have to do with the digital transition and the climate transition. In the climate transition, it must be taken into account, for example, that the measures for single-parent families, which are overwhelmingly women—Minister for Labour, there are many measures on this subject—they can combat not only the poverty situation in which many find themselves, but also the situation of new energy poverty, due to the lack of money to heat houses, to buy computers, to pay for light, the Internet, etc. etc. So, what positive measures are planned in our PRR to correct these inequalities? Another area I would like to talk about is that of the digital transition and these new inequalities, especially of gender. This is an area of the future and those who do not follow it will certainly stay behind. We don't want that to happen! Women represent only 16% of the work specialized in STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) and, therefore, I would like to ask whether positive stimulus measures in the PRR, as already exist in other programmes, such as the #EUSODIGITAL, which provides for the integration of 50% of measures for girls and women. This PRR will also be crossed by this gender perspective, so that these inequalities do not get worse and so that they can be corrected, since, when the crisis has affected us, they were already enormous? I would also like to ask whether there are local-based entrepreneurship measures, since this is where the employability of women in areas of great proximity is ensured.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u154	Madam Member, the time available is over.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u155	Mr President, I just wanted to welcome the holding of the high-level conference to mark the 10 years of the Istanbul Convention, a strategic area in which Portugal has fought, with all vigor, the issue of domestic violence and violence against women. I would therefore like to point out these 10 years as a sign of Portugal's commitment in this area, in a time of action for a green, fair, inclusive and digital recovery. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u156	To reply, Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition Pedro Siza Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u157	Mr President, Mr José Luís Carneiro, thank you very much from now on for putting the Government on the role of public investment in the PRR, because I think it is important not to let go without a reply. Indeed, as I said, the PRR is an opportunity for a great economic stimulus that we can make available to Europe and also our country. It is an economic stimulus that will make itself felt in the coming years, because it will be a very significant public and private investment flow, but it is at the same time an investment effort aimed at betting on the foundations of our future competitiveness and the possibility of having a more resilient economy and society, more environmentally friendly and prepared to take advantage of the opportunity of digital transformation. We have, as you said, importance in private investment, but also in public investment. I'd like to point this out, because it's been understated. The outline of the Portuguese programme is the one that, among all the national plans already presented, has greater direct support for companies. In fact, in Portugal, the value of direct support for companies in the PRR outline corresponds basically to the same amounts as in the incentive systems for companies in PT2020, we had throughout the period 2014 through 2023. This gives us a good idea not only of the support, but also of the investment effort that companies will have to make in order to meet these demands, because, as you know, private investment is supported, but also needs private funds to be put aside. So I wanted to leave this first note that gives us the notion of comparisons. But in addition to this support for private investment, which will enable us to support the decarbonisation of our industry and the digitisation of our small and medium-sized enterprises, and which will enable companies and the scientific and technological system to bet on the industrialization and production of innovative goods aimed at the market, I would also like to stress the importance of public investment. We will, with the investment effort that we make, for example, contribute to the achievement of the goal of having in 2031 a 55 % reduction in greenhouse gases compared to 2005.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u159	We will not succeed if we do not invest in our transport systems, unless we invest in energy efficiency in buildings. This is absolutely essential, but even there are very important opportunities for Portuguese companies. by responding to requests, such as in the construction of housing, in the energy efficiency of private buildings, will be the Portuguese companies positioning themselves for this great investment effort. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u160	In reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Elza Pais, in order to be able to respond to a crisis whose impacts are worse for women than for men, we need three conditions that I will try to sum up. Firstly, we need to know reality and, therefore, from the first hour, the Government has sought to launch a set of competitions with the FCT (Science and Technology Foundation) in order to be able to follow how gender inequality evolves, particularly in terms of the labour market and domestic violence. We ask the European Institute for Gender Equality to also seek to prepare information for this Presidency to measure this impact and we already know the data on employment, working hours and the greatest difficulties with conciliation. We published monthly data on sex-disaggregated support. This allows us to have policies focused on solving these inequalities. I am just going to give an example, already mentioned here, that was a correction in support of the family, when we learned that more than 80 % of the people who had received this support were women, paying 100 %, when there was such support for the family, or by increasing employment support, in the case of recruitment of underrepresented sex. Finally, as the honourable Member has said, we seek to act in structural difficulties. The PRR has this dimension — from a gender perspective — very visible, particularly in digital areas, where we have to correct an inequality. If we do not correct it now, we will be causing new wage inequalities in the future, new inequalities in pensions in the future. It is important that all the training provided in the digital area corresponds to specific goals, so that women can have access to training in the digital area, but it is also important that we be with the girls in order to be able to correct these stereotypes that distance them from these areas, which are, as the Minister of Economy has just demonstrated, very important for our economy in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u162	We are now continuing with the formulation of questions and moving on to the PSD Parliamentary Group. I begin by giving the floor to Mr Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u163	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in the first round, as a result of Mr Rui Rio's intervention, I have seen two aspects which seem important to me. First of all, you said that, most likely, although you were not sure, the Tax Authority would already be figuring out the situation. Well, Mr Finance Minister will come to Parliament next week and tell us something about it. Then he also said that the Tax Authority must be independent and must really be very free to say what to do and whether or not there is a requirement for taxes. You have to tell Mr Environment Minister that he does not publicly tell what EDP pays and does not pay! You have to tell him and let the AT say freely that taxes, after all, will have to pay. But I wanted to ask you a very practical and very direct question. If Mr. Prime Minister can't answer, there's no problem. Article 134 was approved in the State budget for 2021. o. This article provided that a fund was established to support the populations of the territories where these dams are located and that the fund should be regulated in its object and in its management by a decree. It also happens that this decree-law should be published 90 days after the sale, that is, 90 days after December 16. Mr. Prime Minister, it was yesterday! Mr. Prime Minister, my question is very clear. I would like to know whether or not the decree establishing and managing this population support fund has already been approved by the Council of Ministers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u164	Having no registration from the Government now, I now give the floor to Mr Hugo Carvalho.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u165	Mr President, not wanting to waste much time on the Assembly of the Republic, as the answer is simple, if I may, I will answer now. Mr President, you want to know whether the decree has already been passed. No, the decree was not approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u166	I didn't like to give the word to H.E.A., but the answer is given. I therefore give the floor to Mr Hugo Carvalho.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u167	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have tried to put this issue to the Government and I would also like to put it to you. It is a question of whether the Prime Minister is in a position to guarantee Parliament three aspects. First, if mobility and the mobility economy are to be based on hydrogen in the future, secondly, if you already know how to transport green hydrogen; thirdly, if you already know how to store it with an economic rationality and with sustainability. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u168	No, but we're counting on you to tell us!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u169	To reply, Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition Pedro Siza Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u170	Mr President, honourable Member, the wager in hydrogen is a world bet and is above all a European bet. Europe has adopted a strategy for hydrogen that has provided for the development and industrialization of technology that enables us to take advantage of hydrogen, as a raw material, in industrial processes, as a source of energy, for production or for the storage of electricity, where it is not yet mature. For this reason, throughout Europe, we are seeing investments in this development, in this research and in this industrialization which will certainly be supported by national, European and private resources across the continent. Portugal hopes to participate in this movement, so we have a small RPR statement dedicated to the development of these technologies and we also have participation in European research and development projects in this area, because we know that hydrogen will play a key role in the next 10 or 15 years. And it is essential that Europe dominates the technology of production of green hydrogen so that it does not have to be purely and simply take-up of technology produced elsewhere, losing more and more leadership in things that are indispensable for us. At the moment, technology is not mature, but we will continue to make every effort to make it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u171	I have information that Mr Hugo Martins de Carvalho would have two questions to ask, so having put only one, he now has the floor to ask the second question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u172	Mr President, Minister, it is the government's own document that admits that there is no economic rationality in hydrogen, and the Minister has just said that it is not a mature technology. What if he doesn't grow up? Oh, my God! Those who are betting are countries with many possibilities. For 1, 5 kg of hydrogen to be transported must be at 250° negative, at very high pressure, in a vessel weighing more than 100 kg, Minister. Imagine in large quantities, in trucks and diesel boats, up to Rotterdam, with carbon footprint. It is not yet mature and it is the agents themselves who say it is necessary for States to invest much in order to become mature. My question is this: it is not mature, but the government thinks it is a good idea to put EUR 900 million in this. In addition, the government is so committed to this that it has even reprogrammed funds for green hydrogen from PO SEUR ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use ) that could be for energy efficiency, for people to stop dying cold in winter, already. So you spend the previous one, you spend the reprogramming one, you spend the following one, you don't know if it's mature or not, and this says a lot about what you want to do to recover the country. Mr Prime Minister said, days ago, in an interview, that Portugal had lost EUR 15 billion in the pandemic. It has EUR 16 billion to recover and losses are mostly in private, small businesses, small restaurants, small businesses. In fact, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, the resilience is in the companies, they are even the Portuguese and the entrepreneurs who are enduring. The Minister said that 35 % was the same as the PT2020, but I think he knows that in the period of the PT2020, companies did not have to close the door or sell it to save lives, which is a little different. It has a slight difference. The government opts to put the piece of lion in the public sector, where no job has been lost or wages have been cut, and it is not to do anything else but recover investments that the government has not made, Prime Minister. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u173	Mr. Prime Minister, I must be even admiring you! Until the IC35 Mr. Prime Minister managed to put in the PRR, something that has been promised 20 years ago from budget to budget from European funds to plan European funds. Even the IC35 goes to its recapitulated plan for election, and that is, in fact, fantastic. My question to the Prime Minister is this: what do you need to say more to your ex in order to raise awareness, to you and to the government, of what are the companies that need help and that this help to recover the country is exactly for those who are scratching it? Mr. Prime Minister laughs, but there is no joke, because there are many people on the brink of bankruptcy, there are many people suffering, there are many people wrapped up in bureaucracy, there are many people who do not sleep well at night, perhaps unlike you Exa, and who are worried about the future. Instead of laughing, Mr Prime Minister should seek an answer for these people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u174	In reply, the Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I leave only this note on hydrogen: it transports hydrogen and, in Portugal, we produce vehicles with hydrogen batteries. We already do it in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So what we want is to generalize these technologies and we in Europe and Portugal participate in this process in technological leadership. This was the note I wanted to leave you, Mr. On what the PRR is for, the honourable Member said that it would be good if we could take the 14 billion PRR and use it to support the solvency of companies affected by the crisis, to compensate for those that were forced to close. Mr. Deputies, that's not why the PRR. I suggested that you contact a fundamental protagonist of the design and political agreement on the PRR regulation, which is the European Member José Manuel Fernandes of his party, who knows very well for which the PRR serves. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Hugo Martins de Carvalho.]] He knows very well what the priorities are, what the requirements are, for which he serves and can explain to him that the RPP regulation which has been approved in the European Parliament does not allow the funds of this programme to be used in support of the solvency of companies affected by the crisis. As I said at the outset, what Europe wants is to have a programme that works as an economic stimulus, pushing for significant public and private investment in the coming years to help us recover from the crisis, but at the same time doing so by investing in what is critical to our future competitiveness and to a greener and more digital economy. This is the objective of the PRR. Mr. José Manuel Fernandes will certainly be able to clarify this better than I am, because he knows very well what the PRR is and perhaps from there we can have a more clear discussion on how we can truly invest in our future, building a more resilient, greener, more digital society, but above all, more competitive and able to be inclusive and provide opportunities for all our fellow citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u176	To put questions by the PSD, Mr. Paulo Moniz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, a phrase which Mr Prime Minister has used to us in his Government is that of the « right accounts » and it is true that I am here to talk to him and the PRR, the subject we are dealing with. He asked Mr. President to be distributed, including Mr. Prime Minister, the letter sent to the Regional Azores Government, for the lifting of the PRR instrument for the Azores, dated and signed by Mr. Minister of Planning, Nelson de Souza. This letter explicitly assumes that 5 % of the national PRR is to affect the Azores. More: at the time of the letter, the value of 5 % of the RPP was EUR 649 million, Prime Minister. We have already had access to the PRR's provisional document, which was under public discussion. I made the accounts and added all the values that correspond to the Azores PRR and the result is EUR 580 million. I compared the Minister of Planning with this discrepancy, to which he answered me with a deeply socialist phrase: « It is only to make the accounts». And I told him: « I made the accounts and, with the value of nearly EUR 14 billion from the current RPP, there are no EUR 117 million here ». It was not the Azores that defined that if they had affected 5 % of the RPP to the Azores, it was the Government of V.e. Mr. Prime Minister. I have the signed letter here. It turns out that, as you will understand, the enormous difficulties facing companies and the Azorians are combined with the fact that, on 25 October, the elections have been held that have promoted a government change, which we all know. But the suffering of the Azorian people, who suffered before, continues to worsen, the Azorian people who are also Portuguese, who see themselves in the promises of the Government of Ex.A. and who makes faith in those words.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u179	In fact, it is good to see that EUR 117 million is missing between what the Government of V.A. has written and what is contained in the plan, which is not yet closed. In addition to the fact that in relation to the Azores, we are beginning to have a mistrust if we do not regulate laws adopted in this Parliament and if we find ourselves failing to comply with the own decrees of your Government. It begins to appear that you fell into the temptation to wear the secretary-general coat of the Socialist Party and, keeping a pity that cannot digest the democratic change that took place in the Azores, penalizes the Azorians, not fulfilling their word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u180	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u181	In some ways, this causes suffocation, because in the end and after all, the Azores found the solution that you, exa, implemented and opened in 2015 with respect to the PSD/CDS coalition government. Mr. Prime Minister, my question is simple. You said that the plan is open, i.e. it is not closed and has not yet been sent to Brussels, so there are only two questions: either you confirm and keep the word written and given, adding the 117 million missing in the values for the Azores, or you say that the value remains in the 580 million, missing what you explicitly sent in writing and committed to the Azores and the Azores.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u182	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u183	I'm done now, Mr. President. I deeply regret that, with regard to the Azores, you repeatedly fail to fulfil your commitments. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u184	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u185	Mr President, Mr President, as you know, the first draft of the programme was presented before the regional elections of the Azores and was worked with either the Regional Government of the Azores or the Regional Government of Madeira, in accordance with the traditional principle of allocation of funds, which is to assume that autonomous regions substantially correspond to 10 % of the national population and therefore in national programmes should have access to 5 % each. That's how it was agreed. This programme has very own rules and various conditions in the allocation of resources, because at least 20 % must be allocated to digital transition, at least 37 % must be allocated to climate transitions, and there are other rules. Therefore, what was agreed with the two regional governments was that there would be 5 % for both regions and 4 % would be allocated for projects each region identified and 1 % for participation in national programmes. This is what is agreed upon and so far the Regional Government of Madeira has not raised any problems. Following the elections, having taken over the new government, I myself spoke with the President of the Regional Government of the Azores and, given that there was a change in government, I asked whether the new Government intended to amend the projects that the previous Government had sought to include in the PRR. Dr. José Manuel Bolieiro, who was, in fact, very nice and accurate, said: "No, sir, my principle is not to move into anything that is established. We shall maintain exactly the same and therefore continue this negotiation». This is how we have been doing, particularly by hitting us on a road that has been put at stake by the European Union and which is precisely a road to be built, on a regional initiative, in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. It's not worth wanting to create a case where he doesn't exist. The commitment made is an honest compromise. And don't get into this provocative tone, because what I'm telling you is that we're doing what we agreed to. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The dialogue we have with the current Regional Azores Government is exactly the same as the dialogue we had with the former Regional Azores Government, as well as with the Regional Government of Madeira. I myself have already had the opportunity to convene and meet the Territorial Convergence Council, where the President of the Regional Government, who in the case was represented by the Regional Secretary of Finance, I believe. We have had the opportunity to clarify this issue, as a work is under way, between the Minister of Planning and the two regional governments, to ensure what is committed, which has always been peaceful, traditional and will remain, that each autonomous region will have access to 5% of the whole plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u186	For the CFP's parliamentary group, you have the floor to ask questions, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u187	Mr President, Prime Minister, before moving on to health issues, I wanted to leave an observation to the answer that he gave us at the end of the first round on the issue we have raised on telework and digital platforms. Mr. Prime Minister says that a new right to work is needed. Mr. Prime Minister, complicating the matter does not help the solution. The central and immediate issue we have before us is to ensure that the right of work that exists today is applied, whether in relation to telework or in relation to digital platforms. in the latter case, by allowing companies not to escape the right of work that exists and apply to their workers the rules that already exist for the generality of workers today, not accepting the pretext of algorithms to escape the application of labour law. With regard to telework, ensuring that the rules that are defined for all workers and, in a set of aspects of labour relations, including working hours, apply also to workers subject to telework and by not accepting, in any way, that telework is a pretext for transferring to the workers the costs of businesses, so that they can increase their profits. It seems to us that these are essential aspects in addressing these issues of telework and digital platforms. On health issues, Mr. Prime Minister, this epidemic has in fact left evidence of the failure of liberal and neoliberal theses, particularly those which point to the dismantling of the State. It was not the public services, it was not the intervention of the State, and we would certainly have had a country today razed with the consequences of the epidemic. I stress, in particular, the essential role of the National Health Service in the response to the epidemic and which, of course, has to be complemented. I would say, Mr. Prime Minister, that this is an unmistakable lesson from the epidemic, whether in the National Health Service, whether in public school, whether in social security, or in all public services and the functions of the State: it is the strengthening of public services, it is the strengthening of the social functions of the State, no matter how uncomfortable or because of much possible activity it leaves to the liberals of the square, which has to be the solution, not only for the immediate response, but the solution of the future to the problems of the country. A few days ago, the Government implemented a measure in the State Budget on the recovery of delays in primary health care, implementing the incentive mechanism for professionals. This is, moreover, a measure included in the Budget on a proposal from the CFP, but above all a necessary solution to respond to patients who are late in care. The issues relating to the risk allowance, which have already been addressed here today, are a matter included in the State budget which has to be realized throughout its scope, not only in relation to health professionals, but also in relation to all the workers of essential services, and, moreover, with the new confinement, the Government has been obliged to identify the workers of essential services. There is no reason why this payment is not yet completed in March. But, Prime Minister, with regard to health, in particular, there are measures that are absolutely essential today, as they were in May 2020, particularly with regard to strengthening public health teams, screening and testing capacity, measures for which there is no possibility of being effectively implemented if public health structures are not strengthened. We know that it is not possible to form one day for another doctor or other health professionals, but one day for another, it is necessary to take measures to strengthen public health teams, so that they are able to track contacts, make people isolated and ensure testing with criteria, to ensure the ability to interrupt transmission chains. We therefore always insist, Prime Minister, that there are also measures on these matters included in the State budget. In particular, what measures will the government take in the near future to ensure that the designated defination can be made with a view to security and certainty regarding the future, which we do not want to be of new confinement? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u188	You have the word, to answer, Mrs. Minister of Health, Martha Fear.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what the Government has done to strengthen the National Health Service is not yet, it has already been from one more legislature, and it has translated into financial investment and investment in unprecedented human resources. Of course, the public health area is today a much-referred area, in which there are investments of several decades that we have sought to reverse. But what is worth stressing is what we are going to do to continue to strengthen the National Health Service, not only through human resources in general, fulfilling what has been the reference framework for hiring 8400 health professionals on a two-year horizon, which was practically already completed in 2020, but which we intend to continue to follow up in 2021, such as the issues related to the stability of the working ties of people who correspond to the final needs of service, but also with what is most important and which are the answers to the Portuguese. To this end, we have, from the outset, been able to improve the working methods at the level of public health, with collaborative work methodology, review of the processes of organization and involvement of other professionals, in addition to health professionals only, and also with what is a screening, testing program, which has already started in schools, but which will also have supplements in other areas of activity, which also involves the provision of rapid antigen tests in proximity, to be carried out in self-testing, in pharmacy or other places where people can access them and quickly identify their status in the face of infection and take appropriate public health measures. We therefore believe in this combination of measures that we believe in the accountability of citizens, good information, and from there also the investment that has been made in the involvement of behavioural sciences in particular, in communication with Portuguese, of course everything that has been leveraged in a process of vaccination which has had some setbacks, but which has, above all, had the ability to form a light at the bottom of the tunnel, which will enable us, at the end of summer, to be in much better position than we are today to combat the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u190	Mr João Oliveira continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u191	Mr President, Madam Health Minister, we have noted the response that has given us and of course we shall endeavour to follow up on the necessary measures, including by bringing to the Assembly of the Republic the proposals that are necessary to ensure that this strengthening of the intervention of public health teams can be achieved, ensuring the ability to interrupt transmission chains, which at the moment is an essential aspect of combating and preventing the epidemic. Mr. Prime Minister, I raise a question still related to the resumption of educational activities and the preparation of the new school year. We have insisted on the need to create conditions to ensure the resumption and maintenance of the present educational activities. We want to ask the Government above all about concrete measures to ensure, not only during this school year, but also, above all, in the preparation of the next school year, the creation of conditions so that no further interruptions of the present educational activities will occur. We would like to know in particular what measures will be taken to recover the loss of learning resulting from confinement and whether or not the number of students per class will be reduced, whether the hours of operation of schools will be extended to make them function more classes, whether the number of teachers, assistants and technicians corresponding to these needs will be strengthened, whether or not there will be investment in improving and expanding school spaces, whether or not specific measures will be taken, not only vaccination, but also hygiene of school spaces and strengthening of school transport. A specific concern, Mr. Prime Minister, relates to teacher competitions. It is that the competitions opened last March 11 do not allow the lack of teachers or the precarious situation to be resolved. With the vacancies that were opened in the internal competition and the presentations that took place in the next school year, there could most likely be fewer teachers in schools and, in the case of internal mobility, the government is reluctant to consider only the full hours, condemning, once again, thousands of teachers to leave their homes. In the external competition, there is no prospect of linking teachers with more than three years of service, when this is in fact an obligation, from a legal point of view. We therefore want to know what measures the Government will take to combat precariousness, ensuring that all teachers who are already three or more years of service are linked and what immediate measures the Government will take, within internal mobility, to ensure full and incomplete time consideration. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u192	In reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as happened in health, we have also been registering high numbers of professional reinforcements and, only this school year, we have more 3300 teachers, either in hourly credit, or in support of tutoring, and we have, since the previous legislature, more than 8500 teachers vis-à-vis those linked in 2016. Mr. João Oliveira, after a school year like the previous year and also of this, very difficult, we must make a correct diagnosis of which the learnings that were to be made and designed according to each student and each school according to these learnings. Therefore, in January, even before the closing of schools, a diagnostic study was made of those that are made by the Institute of Educational Assessment, based on a representative sample of the country, whose results we will still know this month and which will allow us to know what learning is to be done and which best strategies to compensate for these learnings. Our main priority is to ensure that these students, who attended schools last school year and this school year, have compensation mechanisms, using what we did in the last year of flexibility in organizing schools for this pedagogical response and using the necessary resources, such as tutorials, the strengthening of the specialized means of support we have done in recent years. And we will not fail, as Mr President-in-Office said a little while ago, to define, in view of the diagnoses we are now going to meet, all the strategies, with a fundamental concern: to ensure that these children, having lived these two years of pandemic with great learning limitations, do not stay behind and do not see their life path changed. That is our great priority, and at the end of this month we will have data to be able to define these strategies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u194	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira of the CDS-PP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, as I said, we have been discussing the airport solution in the Lisbon region for about 50 years, and what is certain is that the Socialist Party has contributed six more years to get back to the zero stake. The Government has announced a strategic environmental assessment, placing on the table the Montijo solution and the Alcochete solution. when reading the concession contract, I found that the concessionaire, in this case ANA-Aeroports of Portugal, has the power to submit a proposal, and not two, neither three nor four, for an airport solution in the region of Lisbon. This has already happened in 2017, when ANA and the government accepted the Montijo solution. Therefore, the question I put to you, Prime Minister, is whether you are sure that the Alcochete solution should be evaluated. I ask you, Prime Minister, if you are sure that the strategic environmental assessment of Alcochete does not violate the concession contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u196	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u197	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, I believe it is public and notorious that the Government wished to continue the agreement with ANA as planned and that the works would start next month. As you have noticed, this has not happened, because a regulatory entity has made an interpretation — in fact, in the view of the government, wrong — of what is provided by law and considered that a municipality alone had the power to prevent a work of national interest from being carried out. To remove this obstacle it is necessary to change the law. For the possibility of changing the law, as it is also public and notorious, it was put as a condition that there was a strategic environmental assessment. Moreover, this Assembly of the Republic, in the State budget for 2021, included — no longer a budgetary « knight » — it would say an extraterrestrial » — the condition of a strategic environmental assessment. Therefore, the Government is obliged to carry out the strategic environmental assessment! Ask me if I like it. No, but I have to keep the law. Life is like this. There is no majority, and to change the law in this House it is necessary for it to be done. Now, a strategic environmental assessment implies that several solutions are placed on the table. Mr André Silva even thinks that more solutions should be put in place—that Beja should be put in place; if Dr. Pedro Santana Lopes were here, he would say that it should also be considered Monte Real ; then there are the defenders of Tires, there are the defenders of Alverca. We could have considered many more solutions. Despite everything, we consider three, which are reasonable: Alcochete, Montijo + Portela and Portela + Montijo. It's the three that exist. Let us hope that the strategic environmental assessment will be concluded quickly and that we can move forward. That's right. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u198	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u199	Mr President, Prime Minister, I did not ask you whether you were happy, happy or satisfied about this. I asked you whether the solution that the Government presents, with the strategic environmental assessment, considering the Alcochete solution, violates or not the concession contract. And the reading we make is that there is a breach of the concession contract and that this may, in the long run, entail a large compensation to the concessionaire.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u200	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u201	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, I now do not understand what his role is, whether he is a representative of Portuguese, whether he is a representative of the Portuguese State, or whether he is a representative of the private who may come to act as a representative of the Portuguese State. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Frankly, I don't understand your question. The only thing I know is that, apart from the CDS-PP, I haven't heard anyone invoking this violation yet, namely I haven't heard ANA invoking this contractual violation yet. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u202	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u203	Mr President, Prime Minister, the CDS has heard the experts, made the accounts and has knowledge of the financial impact that this may have on the public accounts. So it's just the defense of the public interest that we're doing here. Leaving the air, I'm going to move on to another subject. We are leaving another pandemic wave, which allows us to make a balance today of what our economy is. And what do we have? We have a Portuguese GDP(gross domestic product) returning to 2008 values and we have a public debt amounting to 130 % of GDP, the third largest public debt in Europe. We are the country of the European Union with greater dependence on European public investment funds, anything like 80 %, while our neighbouring Spain has a dependence of only 20 %. We have EUR 46 billion in moratoriums, and the Banco de Portugal says that, of these EUR 46 billion, very likely EUR 13 billion will not be paid by people and businesses to banks. We have insolvencys, we have shops closed a little across the country. We have an economic and social scourge and, unfortunately, we will have a financial crisis, a crisis in the banking system too. We also know — and that is not good news — that there are countries that are already going to have a fourth VOCID-19 wave, as is the case with Finland and other countries in Eastern Europe. God wants us not to get here and we do not have a fourth pandemic wave in Portugal—as it is obvious, no one wants that. But companies and the economic fabric need to know 'what lines they are sewing', they need to know what the government is preparing for if we have a new pandemic wave here. It is that a new wave means a new economic impact on our companies, especially on micro and small enterprises, which are the most affected. Now, the question I ask Mr Prime Minister, and for which I would like to get an answer, is this: what is the government preparing in the event of a new pandemic strike here?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u204	In reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u205	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, on the questions raised about economic developments and public debt, I must say that last year there has been a very significant fall in the economy throughout Europe and throughout the Western world. So Portugal, with a fall of 7, 6 % of GDP compared with other countries which, like ours, depend heavily on tourism, such as Italy, Spain, Greece and France, was the country in which the economy less contracted. With the projections being made, we are already counting on reaching the highest ever level of GDP and recovering from the effects of the crisis, which is in the Government's forecasts, but is also in the forecasts of other international institutions. Portugal, being a country very exposed to tourism, was of course very affected in the economy, but it was in the European context and in the context of the countries of southern Europe which depend on tourism, of the least affected. On its question of public debt, it is true that public debt has increased much again with the pandemic, but it has increased in both Portugal and all countries of the world. And in Portugal it has increased in line with the other countries. And before the crisis, Portugal was the country that in Europe was further reducing public debt, making a significant reduction in public debt. Now, of course, with the crisis, public debt has increased, as has increased in other countries. But from next year on, we're going to start a reduction path. With regard to support for companies, the Government has already publicly stated several times that, while there is a pandemic and as long as economic activity is conditional on the effects of the pandemic, support for companies will continue. Even now, Portugal has already decided — and it has been one of the most advanced countries to do so — to extend support to businesses and workers until September, even though it is expected that the economy will be completely restored in the summer. We did not hesitate and we felt that it was better, in support of economic activity and employment, to risk and give too much than to withdraw support too soon.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u206	Minister, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u207	So as long as economic activity is conditioned by the pandemic, we will continue to extend support. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u208	Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, you have the floor to waste your time. The government will no longer respond because it does not have time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u209	Mr President, Minister for Finance, Prime Minister, what the Portuguese, particularly entrepreneurs, can conclude from this debate is that, having a new pandemic wave, if we have to paralyze everything, the government has nothing to present, it has nothing prepared, nothing studied. This is the answer given here. Mr Minister, we need to be aware that companies, our business fabric, during this year, have consumed a lot of what their reserves were. And you consumed on what? In wages, in part not covered by the Layoff regime, in the energy component, in the tax charges themselves. Therefore, the reserves are completely zero in our business fabric. And the entrepreneurs learned from their response that, in fact, there is no solution to anything, keeping everything in it, with support that is far from what our companies need. But there is one thing that can be retained from these debates: that the invoice of the COVID, whether in the State, whether in the case of companies or in the case of families, is being pushed forward—using a popular expression "is being pushed with the belly"—and therefore we will certainly have a problem ahead of us all.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u210	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u211	I will finish, Mr. President. However, there is something totally contradictory, which is the following: the government says in Brussels: 'we want the full support lost, but perhaps we will not use the credit lines', but then, here, to companies and families, the government says 'you have a big credit line here, but we have no big credit lines here'.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u212	Mr André Silva, from the PAN, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u213	Mr President, Prime Minister, returning to the possible location of the airport in Beja, 50 years after the beginning of the debate, a year and a half ago by the hand of the NAP, the Government committed itself to making a strategic environmental assessment, where it included all and the various options—and failed to fulfil. You're doing or you're going to make a fictitious strategic environmental assessment. But today, finally, we have managed to remove from Mr Prime Minister's mouth the reason why the government will not include Beja : it is that the other international airports that the Government knows in other countries are at most 66 km from their capitals and Beja is 129 km away. But Frankfurt-Hahn is 126 km; Oslo Torp is 118 km; Munich West is 113 km; Stockholm-Skavsta is 108 km; and Chicago Rockford is 140 km! So, Prime Minister, if the assumption is the distance and also starting from the principle that Beja, with TGV, is 40 minutes away, will or will not include, as the Country is waiting, the Beja option? Don't be afraid, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u214	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u215	Mr. President, Mr. André Silva, there are airports and airports. If we want to talk about major airports, airports in capital regions, there is no Beja. It is not a matter of fear or lack of fear, it is a question of having to find a solution that is an effective, practical solution and that allows us to recover decades of lost time. Therefore, the solutions that are workable and that are on the table are the three that we put in the strategic environmental assessment. And yet, as I have unfortunately said, it is more a waste of time to find a solution, because, even when we had the responsible attitude not to question what the previous government had already decided, still, it was possible to find an absurd way to block a decision, which is the good decision, the best decision, I would even say that after the way the privatisation of ANA was done, it is even the only possible solution for the country to ever have airport. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u216	Mr. André Silva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u217	Mr President, Prime Minister in Xinjiang, China, 2 million Uighurs and other Muslims are trapped in heavily monitored concentration camps, forced to renounce their religion, subject to brainwashing techniques, tending to ensure assimilation of Chinese culture and ideological education in communism, and are used as a slave labour for large international brands. Uighur women are forced to use intrauterine devices, to be sterilized or to be aborted, in addition to having to do regular pregnancy tests. What happens in Xinjiang in China is, according to several international entities, genocide, violates international law and requires at least the political signaling of the Portuguese Government. The United States of America, with the administration Biden, Canada and the Netherlands have already recognized it, and other European States are doing so at any time. When asked about the role of Portugal in the denunciation of the grave violations of human rights by the dark Chinese regime, Minister Augusto Santos Silva always responds to the importance of secular trade relations with China — we already know that language. Dr. António Costa, according to its ethical-moral parameters, how do you classify what is being done against Uighures in China?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u218	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u219	Mr President, Mr André Silva, allow me to correct you and tell you that these are not the trade relations that you have here. We have common files in our relationship with China, the most important of which is the transition in Macao. And we have very deep national interests in our relationship with China, the most important of which are the 130 000 Portuguese citizens living in that country. Having said that, we have been accompanied and subscribed, both within the European Union and within the United Nations, to the successive appeals and criticisms addressed to the Chinese authorities by the regression which, in that country, occurs in fundamental rights, in particular in the province of Xinjiang and in particular those who have as victims of this regression, the Uighur population. We hope that China will take measures that prevent the degradation of its relationship with Europe, which is as important for Europe as for China. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u220	Mr. André Silva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u221	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have tried to know your opinion and I have not succeeded, but one of these days we will arrive there. Mr. Prime Minister, €100 000 in carpets and carpets; € 118 000 in toasts, of which €18 000 in chocolates; €35 000 in wine; €63 000 in clothing; €69 000 in sheets and ties; €40 000 in furniture; €260 000 in order to equip a press centre in Lisbon. Only these examples give a total of €700,000 of superfluous expenditure of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In a cost-effective way, and in a context where so many people go through trials, the government spends on events that take place through videoconferencing. It is a 'white elephant' in a real 'ghost presidency', which we must not fail to criticize, in defense of the sound management of public money. What I ask you, Prime Minister, is if you do not think that these expenses were superfluous and should have been avoided, taking into account the foreseeable extent of the Portuguese Presidency's events. I also ask you why you have resorted to direct adjustment for these contracts and if you have, by chance, looked for alternatives to those which have been hired.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u222	To reply, I have the floor of the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u223	Mr President, Mr André Silva, thank you very much for your questions and, above all, for this revelation you made to the House, according to which furniture is excused when there are meetings, because people gather on your feet, as everyone knows... Mr President, a European Presidency is a very important event for any country that exercises it. It is an event prepared over time and for all scenarios, and the current Portuguese Presidency of the European Union is prepared for a hybrid scenario, in which indeed it has been carried out. We had presence meetings with the President of the European Council, with the President of the European Commission and with the College of Commissioners. We will have new presences as of April, when the country dedefinites. We are working on this scenario and of course we will have our Social Summit, the informal European Council, the summit with India, at present, and many other meetings that will take place in May and June. To give just one example, we added informal foreign business advice and defense to the end of May, just to ensure that they were present. Yes, the presidencies of the European Union, like any other political or diplomatic event of some importance, make institutional offers and, Mr President, I have a revelation to make: this tie was offered to me by the Croatian Presidency. This is an element that values the country and we take advantage of these facts to value what our traditional products are, and we also take advantage of informal advice in our country to value our territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u224	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u225	Mr President, Prime Minister, when he went to the House, I do not know whether he noticed it, but the Union of Judicial Officials put a huge poster across the street, drawing attention to the fact that the Government failed the deadline for the review of the Statute of Judicial Officials, which should be completed in July last year. Now, making the accounts, it passed July, it passed August, it passed the year 2020 and no statute. Since the government failed the deadline, it came to the State Budget Act for 2021 to determine that by the end of March this year it would be published in the Journal of the Republic the review of the Statute of Justice Officers. It happens that there are only two weeks to reach this deadline and it would therefore be of interest to realize at what stage we are in terms of negotiations with the representative structures of their workers, so that the process of revision of the Statute is completed in time for publication in accordance with the law, i.e. by 31 March of this year. Mr Prime Minister: will this new deadline be respected or will it happen as it happened last March, with the Statute of the Judicial Officers continuing in cod waters? [[Congrats from PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u226	Mr. Prime Minister, the word is from you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u227	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, what I can tell you is that at this time the new draft statute of judicial officials has already entered the legislative circuit and, therefore, if everything runs as planned, it may be approved by the Council of Ministers by the end of the month ; if it does not run with all consensuality it may take some longer, but in principle, by the end of the month we are in a position to approve the statute. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u228	Mr. José Luís Ferreira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u229	Mr President, Prime Minister, I must even welcome the fact that the Government is already preparing the new draft of the Statute of Judicial Officers. However, I doubt whether the representative organisations of the workers were involved in this negotiation, because the law also requires the involvement of the entities representing the workers. Anyway, if we're gonna meet the deadline this time, fine. Mr. Prime Minister, another subject: despite the insistence of the Greens, our country remains without specific legislation to safeguard soil protection, simply because the ProSolos law, which aims to establish the legal regime for the prevention of soil contamination, remains unpublished, after successive delays over the past few years. We are talking about a diploma whose public consultation took place in 2015, and six years later, it is still being examined by the government, which has already submitted several dates for its publication, but so far nothing. We know that this law may not solve everything, and it will certainly not solve all the problems, including the poor classification and incorrect referral of these wastes to unlicensed places, but, in any case, it would fill a gap in the national legislative framework that would avoid situations such as those that have occurred, for example in the National Park, in Lisbon, among other examples that could be mentioned here, such as the Champalimaud Foundation lands or even Boavista land in Lisbon. I do not know whether Mr. Prime Minister is remembered but, about a year ago, the Greens asked Mr. Prime Minister, who informed the plenary that the law would be published during 2020. It happens that the year 2020 is already there and the law continues to be published. In other words, in addition to being faced with the absence of legislation, we do not know the reasons why they are preventing or delaying their publication, since the government has never clarified the reasons for this impasse. I therefore insist on the question, Prime Minister: when does the government plan to publish ProSolos law? And now, what reasons are there for the fact that this law has not yet been published, even after the Prime Minister assured here in the plenary that it would be published in 2020?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u230	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u231	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I am sorry that I will not be able to be very precise in my answer. After it has already been necessary once and it has been imprecise the conclusion of what I have said, I reserve myself simply to say that the note I received from the Ministry of the Environment is that it is in the process of legislative consolidation. [[The CDS-PP Member's laughs João Pinho de Almeida.]] Therefore, it precedes the stage of the previous response, as it has already entered the legislative circuit. It is in the process of legislative consolidation and I am no longer saying, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u232	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u233	Mr President, Prime Minister, I just didn't have time to answer because my time had run out, but I just wanted to make a correction to your last expression, when you said that I was sitting here for being defeated in the presidential elections. So it was, but there is a correction to be made, Mr. Prime Minister : it is that I and Mr. Prime Minister are only sitting here because I was defeated in the presidential elections, because otherwise, I wouldn't be sitting here or there Mr. Prime Minister would certainly be looking at me. [[The CDS-PP Member's laughs João Pinho de Almeida.]] The Minister of Finance said a little ago: « we prefer to take the risk of giving too much rather than giving too little » in Portugal. If it weren't for a laugh, it would be for crying. Portugal, in 2020, spent less than most European Union countries on supporting COVID. The APOIR Programme, which was said by the Minister of Economics, gradually disappeared because it was having too many applications. In other words, as many companies needed support, the programme did not work ; 47 % of companies said that they did not ask for support because they did not meet the criteria and bureaucracy imposed by the government. Mr. Minister of Finance, explain to me how this is a government that is at risk of giving too much and not giving less. If it wasn't something to laugh it would certainly be to cry.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u234	To reply, Mr Siza Vieira has the floor of the Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u235	Mr President, Mr Ventura, on the APOIAR programme, what we have done has been extended to reach businesses and entrepreneurs who were initially not eligible. Initially, we wanted to make the programme as simple as possible — it was just asking for the number of taxpayers and the bill of bankruptcy and we paid 20 %, it was very simple. From the moment we met this initial demand, we were able to successively extend to other types of companies, to individual entrepreneurs without organized accounting, without workers, support for incomes from other types of spaces than with lease contracts, and that is what we were doing. Finally, we have focused our support on what are the most affected sectors and will continue to do so as needs dictate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u236	Mr. André Ventura, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u237	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am not focusing on you for any special obsession, it is just because I also said that we would be closer to Germany within five years. In fact, where we are near Germany is one thing in which Mr André Silva touched, it is in the unbelievable expenses that we have done in the European Union. This is the only matter in which we are very close to Germany. This is because, Prime Minister, Germany covers 70 % of the losses of tourist establishments, small trade and services. It is not 50 %, nor 30 %, it is 70 %! We are far from Germany. Germany has legislation for telework and was announced by the leader of the Socialist Party nine months ago that we would have a large proposal for telework legislation. In fact, to date, what we all know is extremely insufficient, to the point that the Minister says today that she does not commit to telework regulation, as she said earlier. Therefore, we are far from Germany.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u238	Sir, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u239	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you whether, indeed, at this third or fourth stage, we will have a level of support that is satisfactory for companies that are closing every day and the jobs that are being lost every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u240	In reply, the Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u241	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, it is clear that we are not Germany. There is no need for you to come here to say that to Parliament, we all know that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, what we're doing is trying to direct the support to the companies they need. At the moment, what we can say is this: while in Germany they support 75% of the fixed costs not covered by revenue, we are paying 20 % of all the turnover in the last year for the eligible companies, in addition to paying all the wage costs of the workers who are being maintained. From the very first moment that we are supporting companies of all dimensions and of all legal nature in fixed wage costs, to the part they support. And now we are increasing support for non-wage fixed costs. Did we get everywhere? We're not there. Can we make up for all the losses that companies have? We can't. But at least we managed to help mitigate these losses and endure for some time until we were able to normalize the health situation. I must say in this context that the effort we have made in recent months is truly unprecedented in Portugal. I do not know if we will ever be able to replicate Germany, but surely from here to five years we will be closer than we are today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u242	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Mr. Prime Minister, in the first round, was so eager to criticize the Liberal Initiative on the defination plan that he did not let me reach the second round and surprise him with a question about the defination plan. Here I am, and I will surprise you, starting by greeting the government because finally, after a year, it incorporates solid scientific data into a decision model. For the first time, at the end of a year, there is something that can be communicated in a simple way, based on two main indicators and some other secondary ones, and, contrary to some intelligence in this country, I think — that this scheme of the four quadrants is too simplistic — I think it is the same way that it communicates, so again, the greeting. But — in this socialist government there is always a 'but' — there are two things that are missing and serious: first, the Portuguese are able to follow these two indicators, the incidence and the RT, but they do not know what measures are imposed, suspended or reversed in each of those quadrants. This is essential and these measures should be hierarchical in their effectiveness in combating pandemics and in their impact on social life, economic life and mental health. And, Mr. Prime Minister, these data exist, they are not being weighted and people do not know how they are being used. Second failure, from our even more serious point of view: the articulation of this defination plan with the testing and screening plans, a mass testing and an effective screening, because this will directly reduce the incidence through the early detection of cases, particularly asymptomatic ones, and also an articulation with the vaccination plan, because it goes directly to RT, so it has to be articulated. These things have to work in joint, there is no other way to say it. So the question I leave you with — this is a little bit easier to answer, does not need as much reflection as I did in the first round — is the following: how long will Mr. Prime Minister delay in accepting these suggestions and if we will soon have an articulation of the defination plan with these three plans, testing, vaccination and screening?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u244	To answer, you have the floor to Ms.Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u245	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, the truth is that the defining plan already reflects these three dimensions, as indeed has been quite emphasized by our experts. Every day we follow the positivity rate, each day we follow the number of hospitalizations in intensive care and in nursing, every day we follow the epidemiological surveys, every day we follow the results of the tests released by private laboratories and we are working on a model that also allows these indicators to be published so that the whole population knows about them. Regarding the questions of testing, vaccination and screening as support for this phase, this interpenetration is something that is being drawn every day. I can tell you, by sharing this data here, that for the first time in our country, more rapid antigen tests than on Christmas Eve, which means that there is an effective use of what has often been suggested to us as the testing market, with the various potentialities that exist. And cheaper tests too, because the reality we have today is not the same as we had a year ago. A year ago we had a national reference laboratory, today we have 145 sites where we can test and we have the market also starting to offer them. On the other hand, the issue of vaccination is obviously essential. We are dependent on factors that do not depend solely on us, and we must be humble and cautious to say that we have not yet fully known about vaccines, the duration of their immunity and a set of other aspects. in which we have also continued to invest in another aspect which may be worth including in the concerns, which is that of communication with the Portuguese—as has already been done before—with behavioral sciences, with the maintenance of respect for rules, non-pharmacological measures, and it is also worth stressing that Portugal can be a good example for all this...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u246	Mrs. Minister, I call attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u247	Mr. President, I'm done. As I said, it is worth stressing that Portugal can be a good example for all of this, because the European Union is now preparing to launch a model of defination through ECDC (European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control) and we already have one. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u248	Having concluded that item 2 of the agenda, of course we can only move on to the third item, which concerns the preparatory debate of the European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister under Article 4 ( a ). the Act No 43 / 2006 of 25 August 2006 — Monitoring, assessment and pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union. To open the debate, I give the floor to Mr Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u249	Mr President, we have now had the problem solved, because you have been pleased to give me the floor and I like to greet you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first item on the agenda of the next European Council, of course, has to do with the point of the situation on COVID, in two fundamental dimensions. First of all, the effort to respond to the different questions posed by the vaccination process and the effort to maintain the unity that is essential for the European Commission to continue to have the strength needed to manage this whole process; the second dimension has to do with a first debate that will exist on the proposal for a digital green certificate, which aims to create better conditions for Europeans to be able to move in Europe, which is particularly important for countries with a strong tourist interest. The essence of this certificate is not a travel condition, it is not yet associated with any concrete obligation or disclaimer of any specific obligation, it is to allow those who have been vaccinated, who have already been infected, to whom it has immunity to have this title and each Member State may, for the time being, define the consequences of the essence of that green certificate. There is a theme that must also be fundamental, which has to do with the discussion on the single market, industrial policy, digital transition and the economy. Europe needs, if it wants to have greater strategic autonomy, a more ambitious industrial policy and needs to move forward with regard to the digital transition. It is not enough to have a PRR, it is essential to have political terms defined together in order to be able to apply it in the best way. To that end, the importance of a strong single market, the essence of strengthening competitiveness and industry resilience, the need for inclusive and sustainable recovery and the central role of labour markets and qualification policies are four absolutely fundamental priorities. It is in this sense that we will proceed to the debate on the Digital compass of Europe for 2030, presented by the Commission, which has to be committed to strengthening the digital skills of citizens, the digital infrastructures that allow territorial cohesion, the digital transformation of businesses, which expands to all those who criticize the investment provided for in our PRR, precisely for the digitisation of the Public Administration, which is one of the four cardinal points of this compass presented by the European Commission. In the external dimension there will be two issues which will normally occupy the European Council. One has to do with Turkey and the need to balance the solidarity that we have to affirm, in an unquestionable way, with Greece and Cyprus and, on the other hand, with the concern that we have about the whole situation in the eastern meridian, with the demand for a position that enables us to have a common positive agenda for the future of our relations with Turkey. The same applies to relations with Russia, which have had a strong backlog with the Navalny case, but for which it is necessary to look for areas of mutual interest in order to continue. The pandemic, in particular the vaccination process, has opened here, in fact, a door that can be a new door for future cooperation, particularly in the field of health and the process of vaccination on a global scale. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u250	The debate was opened, so we moved on to the stage of discussion. I begin by giving the floor to Mr Pedro Cegonho for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u251	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has already been said here this afternoon, by Mr Carneiro, I would also like to begin by welcoming the Government for the solution found for the Conference on the Future of Europe, and in this context, to leave a word of appreciation for the importance of national parliaments in the challenge of this Conference, as well as to welcome the President of the Committee on European Affairs, Mr Capoulas Santos, for the way in which he has presided over the Conference of Parliamentary Committees for Union Affairs of the European Union, always pointing out the scrutiny and presence of national parliaments in all matters of the European Union, including their future. Certainly, at the European Council meeting on 25 and 26 March, the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and the state of art of the European response will deserve the Council's analysis of the balance sheet on the availability of vaccines and the epidemiological situation. It is never too important to stress the confidence and importance of the joint, simultaneous and coordinated action of the European Union in the management of the European vaccination plan. It is also important to stress the awareness of the responsibility and solidarity of the Union towards other parts of the globe, being one of the founders and the great promoters of the COVAX initiative. As Pope Francis said some days ago: "Braternity and hope are like medicines that the world needs today, on an equal footing with vaccines. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Therefore, all work leading to a global equitable distribution of vaccines must be valued and cannot be questioned by the taxable natural beings that arise in the implementation of the plans of the countries that have the most. Mr Prime Minister, Minister for State and Foreign Affairs, Mr and Mr. Members: It was announced by the European Commission that the Commission and BioNTech/Pfizer reached agreement on the accelerated delivery of 10 million doses in the second quarter. The President of the Commission stated: « I know how critical the second quarter is for the implementation of our vaccination strategies in the Member States. These 10 million doses with advance delivery will increase the total number of doses provided in the second quarter to more than 200 million. These doses would be withdrawn from the option of 100 million doses in the second contract, provided for in the third and fourth quarters. This is good news. We would like to ask whether the Government considers that this news will bring and give Member States a new margin of manoeuvre and whether it will possibly cover gaps in deliveries. Mr Prime Minister, Minister for State and Foreign Affairs, Mr and Mr. Members: The European Council will also discuss the main priorities in the areas of single market policy, industrial policy and digital transformation, certainly with attention to the guidelines for digitisation and analyzing the work done on the taxation of the digital economy, knowing that digital solutions help create jobs, promote education and strengthen competitiveness and innovation and can improve the lives of citizens. We also know that digital transformation brings new challenges to Europe for the conversion of competences, for the strengthening of social systems and for European territorial cohesion, challenges for which the taxation of the digital economy can bring interesting solutions. We would like to see whether, in the Government's view, there is a need for the Union to move forward with a desirable global multilateral commitment in view of the nature of the digital services in question. Mr Prime Minister, Minister for State and Foreign Affairs, Mr and Mr. Members: Finally, and as we are in full European presidency, we would like to welcome the launch of the new European Innovation Council. It is a key innovation in Horizon Europe and represents the most ambitious innovation initiative Europe has already adopted, with a budget of EUR 10 billion for the period 2021 - 2027. It will be a mission to identify, develop and implement revolutionary technologies and disruptive innovations. It will support start-up businesses, SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) and research teams that develop revolutionary high-risk and high-impact innovations, with particular emphasis on intensification of solutions that contribute to the objectives of the European Ecological Pact and the Recovery Plan for Europe. Thank you very much for your attention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u252	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Deputy of PSD Isabel Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u253	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to say that, as we know, the Government of Portugal is leading for the fourth time the rotating presidency of the European Union and what we were hoping for was that we were faced with a moment of affirmation for the positive, progress and achievements, until Europe and the world, as we know, are experiencing a very difficult crisis, because of a pandemic that has been dragging itself a year ago and is exerting in terms of shaking the existing international order since the Second World War. It is a global health crisis, which is on the way to the three million dead, many of them from our families, our acquaintances, our friends. It is a social and economic crisis that is leaving a trail of destruction and enormous suffering: unemployment, loss of income, indebtedness of the country. We hoped that Portugal would be able to lead a presidency which would immediately accelerate, without tibias, vaccination and promote recovery, finally with all the slogans of digital, green, social rights, from an open Europe to the world. But as for us, none of this has happened. We have a Portuguese Presidency that brings us the old vices of the socialist governments, of spending on the tripa-forra of bad memory, of the wasted expenditure of a government that puts the name of Portugal on an unrecommendable place. Only two very precise cases: firstly, the interference in the choice of the European Prosecutor and the falsities in relation to his curriculum and now the direct adjustments of the Portuguese Government within the Portuguese Presidency. Half of the Presidency has not yet passed and we already have 192 contracts concluded by direct adjustment. During the discussion of the State Budget for 2020, I have warned the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs of this House of Foreign Affairs of 23 million euros to start the Portuguese Presidency on an option that seemed very regrettable and not transparent to direct adjustment. In January 2020, we were still far from imagining the pandemic, but we were living the epidemic of the captivitys of Mário Centeno, which issued previous opinions for everything and for nothing, captive where I could, Mário Centeno provided, by hand kissed, EUR 23 million to prepare the Presidency. However, ironically, or not so, the Government has committed itself not to spend more than EUR 67 million, which was indeed the cost of the past Presidency of 2007. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he agrees with the statement by his Minister of State and Foreign Affairs that «the criticisms of the Portuguese Presidency's expenditure are ridiculous». Do you accept, Mr Prime Minister, that there is a high expenditure, especially of presenceal charis, such as 11 000 € to paint walls of the CCB (Central Cultural Centre of Belém ), by a company that was constituted a few weeks ago and with 2 € of social capital? Do you accept that you spend 35 785 € on wines and 39 780 € on 360 shirts and to180 suits for drivers? Do you accept that you spend 100 000 € on carpets, tapestries and other both on furniture? Do you accept that you pay for a photograph €446 000 and for the work « Lighted Jelly Fish» more than €50 000? Do you accept that you pay Lusa, which at the moment does not even have money to pay wages, about €100,000 for the provision of 'new and operational services'? And it could go on. Mr Prime Minister, the Government of Portugal is giving Europe an example of a regrettable presidency. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u254	A government that treats taxpayers' money as a ridiculous thing is not a government, but it is an irresponsible Council of Ministers, which punishes and approves strong indicators of spending our public money. Portugal is today a drifting ship, without any direction, in which the only thing you know how to do is to disarm the money of the people. I would say: There is decorum, there is respect, because there are families that go wrong, but very bad. There are companies, small businesses, that have lost everything in this pandemic and the PSD does not accept the return to the Socrates party of the School Park, the TGV(high-speed train) of Magalhã computers. A Presidency, whose motto is 'Time to Act', does nothing in the face of these nonsense, this way of acting that shames us, with all these shocking expenses? I would say: Mr. Prime Minister, put an order in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which seems most like the palace of calamities. I ended by saying that well they were right about the welcoming Camilo of Oliveira and Ivone Silva, in his wonderful Rabula: Oh, August! - Oh, Augustinha! / everything is doing little of us / this country has lost its focus / arm to fine / arm to fine. And so, unfortunately, this Portuguese Presidency is going to set itself up when companies, people and families go through a lot of trouble around us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u255	You now have the floor to Mrs. Fabíola Cardoso from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u256	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government : The Left Block argues that only the suspension of industrial property rights, allowing the sharing of knowledge for the production of vaccines and other COVID-19 medicines, will make it possible to increase its production and distribution at national, European and global levels. Portugal, the 27 and especially the poorest countries cannot remain hostages of large pharmaceutical companies. Only this courageous step will ensure the vaccination of the entire world population and thus the resumption of freedom of social and economic activity. And we are not alone: our voices are increasingly being joined by that of the United Nations and that of the World Trade Organization ( WTO ), for example. The answer to the pandemic will certainly be the central issue of the next Council. Speaking in passports, no, and in digital green certificates can and is certainly very interesting but also serves to divert attention from the essential, which is to ensure that vaccines and COVID medicines reach all people in all countries of the world. Despite the initial European response, which led to the unprecedented scientific success of the vaccine, the strategy collapses. Several European countries are calling for a change in production mode: short circuits, territorialized systems and strategic autonomy are concepts of sustainability that can and should also be applied in the COVID bio-economics. Several companies from countries such as Italy, Spain, France and Germany have already moved forward with unilateral production agreements with Russia, which has a vaccine developed in State institutions but has not yet approved by the European Medicines Agency. Faced with the failure of the European response, the uncoordinated nationalism of the vaccine emerges. At world level, the situation is even worse: only 40% of world production capacity is being used. The rate of vaccination predicts that within seven years the planet will be vaccinated, giving the possibility that dangerous mutations will spread to the planetary scale. And scientists remember that Europe will only be safe when everyone is vaccinated. Yes, it has already been stated here today that there are legal tools worldwide so that in a situation of public health crisis States may temporarily suspend industrial property rights. Unfortunately, at the last WTO meeting, the European Union opposed this request, submitted by India and South Africa and supported by 100 countries. We will only reach group immunity through the courageous and supportive group humanity. So, Prime Minister, I ask two very direct questions for two clear answers: will you, in the next Council, defend the sharing of industrial property in the COVID-19 challenge, accompanying positions of the WHO and the UN ( United Nations)? Will, as current President of the Council of the European Union, call for a joint position in international bodies to defend vaccines against COVID-19 be a public good of global access, with diversified production and equitable distribution? Mr. Prime Minister, I refer to the Recovery and Resilience Plan. Now that we enter a new phase of defination, sectors that have suspended their activity expect to resume. Many small and medium-sized enterprises need a boost to stay in touch and ensure jobs and income in the face of the ever-ending crisis. This has a profound impact on the lives of millions of Portuguese and Portuguese people, who need national and European institutions to respond to their actual needs and not make them go through a new phase of austerity, a word still so present in the minds of all of us. We therefore need more support through the Recovery and Resilience Plan, especially for sectors so often abandoned, such as culture and sport, which are essential for future resilience capacity. We therefore ask, Prime Minister, whether the delays and lack of investment that have so far characterized the European response are no longer just a demonstration of the difficulties of the European institutions to ensure that European peoples are resistant to the shocks of a new crisis that emerges. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u257	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u258	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : of the topics on the agenda for this next meeting of the European Council, there are two issues which must be highlighted at this time, not by chance, by the CFP, which is the issue of vaccines in the fight against COVID-19 and the issue of digital and political options in this area. The first question posed to the Government, the Portuguese Presidency, the European Council, is on the European Union's strategy in this process and on this framework of subordination to the interests of multinational pharmaceuticals. There are no illusions and consequences to be withdrawn from what is happening in Portugal and in the European Union, Prime Minister? What balance do you guys make of this process? For laboratories, the balance sheet is largely positive, because of course. They were subsidized in billions of euros by States and the European Commission for the research and development of vaccines and for the production of doses. There were public money for all stages of the process, for risk insurance, for early purchases. And at the same time, the European Union, the Member States of the European Union, including Portugal, assume that they are against the lifting of the COVID-19 vaccine patents, which was proposed by India and South Africa and supported by more than one hundred countries in the WTO, responding to WHO's appeal. The European Union has abdicated any property rights on the invention it has financed, in favour of that half a dozen multinationals — literally half a dozen multinationals — and defends these same multinationals, putting these interests in the forefront of the lives of millions of people. Mr. Prime Minister, please do not say that there is no production capacity to ensure vaccines for all. Of course, there will be no capacity to ensure the terms and requirements of those laboratories, but the priority must be public health, people's lives, and not the businesses and profits of multinationals. Does the Prime Minister disagree with this reading? Does the government disagree? So what position will the European Council take? More than that in subordination and strategy that has been applied? Or a change of direction, which is imposed by reality as an inevitable urgency? It is that "vaccination as a public and universal good" is clearly a promise to be fulfilled. The problem is that it may well be, after all, a false promise. Finally, Mr President, I am referring to the subject of the so-called 'digital transition' and political options, from the outset as far as working relations are concerned. We insist on this point: Mr Prime Minister recently stated that «there is a need for a new right of work to respond to the new realities of digitisation ». Question: But what is the problem of enforcing the right that is in force? That is what is necessary and urgent. I speak of a fair wage, a defined working time with limits, social security, employment stability, insurance for accidents, holidays and holidays, private life reserve, collective employment. Do you consider the problem to be the law or the violation of the law? For us, it is clearly necessary to enforce the law and we reiterate that the central issue is that of convergence to be in social progress rather than in retrogression. And this is no longer the first time that in the European Union and Portugal, and here in this House we have heard of « new realities », which are indeed very old, and « new laws », which ultimately serve to legalize, whitewash and normalize over-exploration. The question we are asking is whether, once again, this recipe and this model will be advocated in this process. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u259	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u260	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries: Given the agenda of this Council, I begin by where Mr Prime Minister also began, by a naturally priority theme of the agenda, which is the COVID. Mr Prime Minister spoke of an issue on the agenda — still today, in Brussels, this was presented — and on which the Portuguese Government seems to be the main enthusiasts, the issue of green certificates, which will be under discussion. We ask whether, before we move so far forward with green certificates - and there are questions to be asked about this - the Council should not look a little further at the results of the European policy on vaccines, because there are no certificates valid to citizens who cannot be vaccinated. You can create the certificates you want, if vaccine policy continues to have a significant failure, as so far... and the data are there to be seen, because we can compare with realities outside Europe and clearly run better than in Europe. But there is one case to be taken into account: in Europe where it is running better in terms of vaccination rates, it is not in the European Union, it is in the United Kingdom, just leaving the European Union, and in Serbia, which has a completely different strategy, which does not mean that we subscribe to it...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u261	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u262	Mr. Minister, I made the disclaimer. I made the disclaimer! I wasn't gonna make that mistake. It does not mean that we subscribe to this strategy, but the European strategy has had serious problems. The question with AstraZeneca still proves that. I ask you, Prime Minister, the following: by creating a logic of green certificates, not only for those who are vaccinated, but also for those who have already had the disease and have been cured and for those who have negative tests—we know that it is not only for those who are vaccinated—is it important that, from the point of view of vaccines, if you can make further progress so that this type of mechanism is minimally effective and not a limitation on free movement within the Union? Until access to the vaccine is an access to the free availability of each citizen, introducing any mechanism that filters the movement to which it cannot choose to be vaccinated is a limitation to free movement in the European area. Then the last item on the Council's agenda has to do with Russia. I therefore place two quick questions—I have little time—about Russia, and one has exactly to do with vaccination. EMA is evaluating Sputnik vaccine and on the possibility of certification. What I am asking is, from the point of view of the relations between the European Union and Russia, how this possibility of certification of a Russian vaccine and of that vaccine also enters into circulation in the European Union, of course not putting on the part of the public health interest that needs to be present in this analysis, but there are also other matters that need to be present in this analysis. Last point: the statements made today by Mr President of the United States and which are significantly harsh with regard to Russia and, above all, with regard to the Russian President. from the point of view of what we have discussed several times, about an Atlantic joint, today, with a new American administration, and having this development, how does Portugal and the European Union, since Portugal exercises the Presidency, see these statements and this new negative advance in relations between the United States and Russia?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u263	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u264	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: COVID-19 has not removed some of the structural problems of the European Union and also the proposals being discussed, particularly from a strategic point of view. For example, I am talking about the fact that we are currently discussing the future of the common agricultural policy (CAP), a future that cannot be disregarded from the European Ecological Pact and less from those that are concerns about welfare and animal life. However, it has been widely known that what has enabled the Tauromachic activity to be kept alive in the middle of the 21st century is precisely the funds of the common agricultural policy. The breeders of bear bulls continue to benefit from various types of support that should be used to support agricultural activity, but which are previously diverted to create animals for this activity, for the conservation and genetic improvement of the brave race and of bull horses, making it possible to channel millions of euros every year to ensure the financing of the activity with public funds. In other words, for an anachronistic activity which violates the most basic animal welfare rules in Portugal and the European Union, and even after the United Nations recommendations, which has already urged Portugal to remove children and young people from the violence of bullomachia, the oxygen balloon remains incomprehensiblely linked. The European Parliament has also made a number of decisions on the withdrawal from the CAP support of funds for the creation of bovine animals for peacocks. in this sense, and paying attention to the specific competence of the European Council in this matter, I cannot but ask you, Prime Minister, whether the Portuguese Presidency is available to correct this injustice, preventing access to CAP funds to finance violent Tauromachic activities, which violate Community welfare rules, putting an end to this situation, to more in such a difficult and complex context, in which we know that money will not reach everywhere. On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, as I said, from an ecological point of view and the challenges we face, the background of the climate crisis has not disappeared. We are seven years from the point of no return of global climate balance and Portugal will be one of the countries most affected by the climate crisis, which will manifest itself in our country in different dimensions, from the rise of the sea level, with the large forest fires, with the very desertification of extensive territories that will become uninhabitable. in this sense, it seems extremely important to us that measures to mitigate and adapt to the climate crisis are in fact on the priority of the Portugal agenda. However, when we look, for example, at the Recovery and Resilience Plan, we find that it forgets the effects of climate change. Therefore, Prime Minister, it is important to know whether or not you will align the Presidency of the Council and the national strategic options themselves with the law of the climate we are working on and with the concerns of our times, specifically with the challenge of the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u265	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u266	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government: The next European Council takes place in a framework of great uncertainty due to the pandemic health crisis, which is also, of course, associated with the economic and social crisis. That is why vaccination must be at the heart of concerns, in particular the balance sheet on the availability of vaccines, because we find it urgent to speed up and extend the vaccination process, since authorisation, production and distribution, as well as vaccination plans. This, in addition to considering that no country can be deprived of vaccines for being hostage to the interests of pharmaceuticals. We know that the temptation to make health a business is great, but that gula will have to have limits, because it is unacceptable, from every perspective, and absolutely immoral. For the Portuguese Government, buying vaccines outside the framework of the European Union, according to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in a recent response to the Greens, is to betray a decision taken at European level. But, Prime Minister, should it not be obvious to all that we need solutions that allow for mass vaccination, as quickly as we wish, rather than being limited to the businesses that have been established with the European Union? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u267	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u268	On the other hand, if I understood correctly, it seemed to me that, a little while ago, the Prime Minister has said that the issue of patents is not a problem. Well, if so, if it's not a problem, then what's missing for patents to be actually released? As regards the deepening of the single market, the Greens insist that this path is basically summed up by new privatisations in a kind of monopolistic concentration. Moreover, the deeper the single market becomes, in different areas, the less the State's intervention in strategic and larger sectors becomes asymmetries and inequalities, as we are watching. A final note on the situation in Western Sahara, whose people continue to condemn serious human rights violations by the Kingdom of Morocco. Mr Prime Minister, at a time when Portugal presides over the Council of the European Union, it was important to know what is being done to protect the Saharan people, to respect international law and to respect the resolutions of the United Nations on this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u269	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u270	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs: This cover of the Economic Journal that I have here must be one of the most disgraceful we have seen from a government in Portugal. It says that « The criticisms of the Portuguese Presidency's expenditure are ridiculous». [[Prime Minister's protests.]] When the Portuguese fight so much to get the minimum survival, use this phrase. [[Prime Minister's protests.]] I know it's uncomfortable, Mr. Prime Minister, but you have to listen, because I too listen, often against my own will. In fact, I hear you more than Mr. Prime Minister to me, against my will, but we hope that one day it will not be so. How can we say that we want to impose rules, that we want to have well-organized public finances and have this type of expenditure in the European Union? Oh, my God! Mr Prime Minister said that the Government would move forward with a new green tax reform and that Brussels would help, but I think it was time to say, once and for all, whether or not we are going to have European taxes, i.e. whether European taxpayers are going to or not be called to pay any more. It is that we have already been paying for all those who don't want to do anything, the best thing now was to pay for all Europeans who don't want to do anything at all. I would like to finish, Mr Minister, by asking you a question, in your eyes, which has to do with the following: the German Government, two weeks ago, put the party belonging to the family of the Arrival under the supervision of the secret services. German AfD was placed under police surveillance and secret services. The European Union, which has so criticized the attitudes of the Hungarian Government, which has so much criticized Jörg Haider and the Austrian Government, now passively accepts that a government places one of Germany's major parties under the supervision of secret services, without anything happening at all. What I would like to ask you, when in Portugal we are talking about illegalizing a political party — a party that, according to polls, is the third largest in this country and wants to illegalize it — is whether the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union will or will not criticize the German Government for putting politicians and candidates under the surveillance of secret services.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u271	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u272	I will finish, Mr. President. I don't know whether or not I'm under the surveillance of secret services, Prime Minister, but I know one thing, I know we're not in Venezuela yet and I would never like to get there to see.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u273	I am still « green», I did not reach Maduro!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u274	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u275	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the topics of the next European Council will be the European Union's relationship with Russia. Yesterday it was known that the increasingly authoritarian regime of Vladimir Putin maintains Alexei Navalny, the opponent that this same regime tried to poison with Novichok last August, arrested in Corrigendum No 2 in Pokrov, a sort of concentration camp, completely isolated from the outside, under intrusive surveillance and without safeguarding any of its rights. at the same time, protests against Putin have already led to the arrest of more than 10,000 people, the vast majority of whom have already been sentenced to imprisonment. And tomorrow morning, Sergei Mitrokhin, who is the leader of the Yabloko Liberal Party, will be able to increase this number, since the court will be present, accused of violating the prohibition of democratic political meetings and asking for the release of Navalny. It is clear that Russia becomes, every day it passes, a dictatorship that reminds Soviet times. In view of this, what will be the position of the Portuguese Government in the Council tomorrow? It will also be discussed at the European Council, the European vaccination plan and also here there is a Russian link, because the economic rights of the Sputnik V vaccine are held by the Russian Sovereign Fund, which has concluded several production agreements with companies from several European countries pending the approval of the EMA. What does Mr. Prime Minister know about the possible production of Sputnik V in the leather wall vaccine factory, owned by a Galician company? And in view of the importance either geopolitical or security of this issue, what care does the Portuguese Government take on this matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u276	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now closing this debate and, to this end, I give the floor to Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs and States. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Government, I would like to thank all the questions raised and to address them thematicly. First of all, starting with the external policy issues of the European Union, what have been raised concerns Russia and also our collaboration with the US administration. I begin with the latter, to say that this collaboration with the US administration, the new Biden administration, is already fruitful, until the new Biden administration leaves ambiguities that characterized the previous administration, in particular, in relation to Russia. We will be pleased to meet with the US Secretary of State next week in the context of the NATO ministerial meeting ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ), we have already had the pleasure of receiving at the Foreign Affairs Council and, bilaterally, I have already had the opportunity to speak to him and to agree on the permanent channels of contact that must always exist between Portugal and the United States. Yesterday, I had another very productive meeting with the Special Envoy of the Biden administration for Indo-Pacific, because it is very important that we cooperate with our allies, especially in the face of the new challenges and threats ahead. For vaccines, vaccines have no nationality and those admitted to the European Union are those subject to the approval of the European Medicines Agency and obtain such approval. With regard to economic matters, Mr Pedro Cegonho did well in reminding them in this debate and therefore wanted to highlight the two points he referred to. First of all, I would like to stress the work being done on a very important issue for all, namely the taxation of the digital economy, particularly of large multinational technology companies. We are now working with the U.S. administration and also within the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) to see if we find a joint solution on these multilateral platforms. The honourable Member also recalled the importance of today's launch of the European Innovation Council and, if I may, would like to fit it into the new multiannual financial framework, because this has been an essential concern of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, to approve the necessary regulations for the multi-annual financial framework to be on the ground. We have already done so, and it has been launched here in Lisbon, in relation to the Horizon Europe Programme, which is the main European funding programme for research and innovation, with EUR 95 billion in all its funds, and we have also done so in relation to the structural funds, whose regulations are approved, the new health programme, the new financing programme for development and international cooperation, the new programme for digital Europe, the Green Europe programme, and so on. With regard to the questions raised regarding the response to the pandemic and, in particular, vaccination, I would like to remind you that the decision taken by European leaders was a very important decision and has two essential components, linked together. The first component is that of the joint contract of vaccines, in a joint effort, to all companies and laboratories which had a process of discovery and production of such vaccines and the second component is that of the subsequent distribution of the quantities purchased by Member States only in accordance with the population criterion. Without this decision, with these two components, it would not have been possible to find a vaccine for COVID-19 with the speed and safety with which it was possible to do so. at this time, we are faced with a problem of supply in relation to one company, but in relation to the other two and a third that has already been approved by the EMA, the supply process is normally proceeding. With regard to the company that has experienced production difficulties, we are trying to mobilize all the production capacity in Europe to help this company cope with these supply difficulties. As the President of the European Commission said today, we will use all the legal instruments at our disposal to enforce the contracts and thus ensure that the European Union has not only the 2000 million doses of vaccines it has contracted, but also the possibility of participating, as leadership, in the effort to transform vaccines against COVID-19 into a public good of universal access. On climate issues, the green transition is an essential dimension of the Portuguese Presidency. The adoption of the European Climate Law is the essential objective of our semester in this dimension. I wanted to remind the ladies and gentlemen. Members who, according to the European Commission, Portugal is the closest European country to the targets we all set for 2030 and that in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which we are finalizing, we not only respect the 37% allocation rule of the whole plan to spending on positive externalities on climate, as we will overcome this rule by 10 percentage points. Therefore, almost half of the total expenditure under the Portuguese Recovery and Resilience Plan will have positive externalities, or direct intervention in the climate transition. As regards the negotiations for the CAP, they are in progress and the Presidency takes very good account of what the European Parliament has already recommended on the specific issue which Mrs Inês Sousa Real has mentioned. Finally, I am very sorry that the PSD has decided to reduce its intervention to an absolutely unbelievable aspect related to the preparation of the presidencies. The PSD was in the government in the first Presidency and knows very well what needs to be done to ensure the success of the Portuguese Presidency. Mrs Isabel Meireles, think only of the following: we had a meeting here with the College of Commissioners. The honourable Member imagines that the honourable Members. Didn't Commissioners sit down when they met with us? Oh, my God! The honourable Member imagines that the honourable Members. Did Commissioners meet in a room whose walls were not properly painted and whose computer equipment were not working properly? Oh, my God! They had a meal. You think there were no drinks in that meal? Oh, my God! Do you think the drivers who led the delegations were not all uniformed and with facts, how should we present ourselves on these occasions? Oh, my God! Does the PSD have anything else to say about the European Council's issues, the relationship with Russia, the relationship with Turkey, the fight against the pandemic, the economy, the internal market? You have nothing else to say, but try to get him out of here what should be a monopoly of arriving? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u278	On this point, we shall initiate the vote on the Rules of Procedure. We begin with the Vote Project No. 494 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and subscribed by the IL ) — Despite the death of Nuno Fernandes Thomaz. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that your wife, one son and three grandchildren are present in the galleries. Mr. Secretary Nelson Peralta, please proceed to the reading of this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is of the following content: « He died last March 8, at the age of 77, victim of COVID-19, Nuno Fernandes Thomaz, President of the New SBE (Université Nova School of Economics). Nuno Fernandes Thomaz was a prominent leader of the CDS at national and local level and was Vice-President of the Party from 1996 to 1998. It was also autonomous in the city of Lisbon, either in the Municipal Assembly, where, including, it was the list head of the PSD / CDS coalition, in 1997, both in the parish of São Mamede. But his activity was far beyond the political component. From among its vast professional curriculum, it stands out that it has been CEO of Banco do Alentejo, Banco Pinto de Magalhães and member of the Board of Directors of Gruppo Mello, Tabaqueira, Nutrinveste, CTT or ICG. Nuno Fernandes Thomaz was also Vice-President of the Forum for Competitiveness and the ACEGE (Christian Association of Entrepreneurs and Managers). Throughout his entire life course, whether professional or political or associative, Nuno Fernandes Thomaz was a human being of strong humanist and great civic and social consciousness, always associating his firm convictions with a gentle treatment, which those who knew him will never forget. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expressed its deep regret at the death of Nuno Fernandes Thomaz and presented to the family his heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I wanted to say that I had the privilege of being a member of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy in the same term as Dr. Nuno Fernandes Thomaz. For me, it was a huge honor, for many reasons, but mainly because of the much I have learned with him about public life and not only. We shall now proceed to the vote on this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now move on to the Vote Project No. 498 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PS ) — regretting the death of Francisco Contente Domingues. Several family members are present in the galleries, including Rita Domingues, Francisco Domingues, Maria Elisa Domingues and Maria José Hippolito. I would ask Mrs Ana Mesquita to proceed with her reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is of the following content: « ‘ The caravela was the greatest discovery in our history. With it, we have gained a unique place in scientific knowledge; with it we have affirmed a universal language. ’ Francisco Contente Domingues spoke of Portugal like this, in Portugal he studied with a singular look, a unique past that no historian can forget. Francisco José Rogado Contente Domingues was born in Lisbon on February 14, 1959. Graduated in History from the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon, master in Cultural and Political History, he doctored himself in the History of Expansion with a thesis on expansion ships. The pair of João Paulo Oliveira and Costa was one of the two Portuguese professors of the most studied discoveries and expansion and cited in the international journals of historical sciences. His academic life was marked by relevant works, almost all opening the doors of nautical and shipbuilding, providing history with a solid basis of knowledge that has been building, for centuries, in practical knowledge. The disciple of Luís Albuquerque, led to Domingues, in 1994, finish the great work, today world reference, which is the Dictionary of the History of Portuguese Discoveries. Already in this century, it is from its direction that the Dictionary of the Portuguese Expansion, marks the most recent ontological readings over the 15th and 16th centuries. The work you produced is vast, but you can find its presence in such relevant editions as the Thematic Dictionary of Lusophonia, the Encyclopædia Britannica, or Oxford Encyclopedia of Maritime History. Member of the International Committee for the History of Nautical Science, of the International Maritime Economic History Association, of the International Society for the History of the Map, joined the Academy of Sciences of Lisbon, the Portuguese Academy of History and the Colonial American History Center of the University of La Plata. As a member of the Navy Academy, of which he became emeritus, he presided at the Maritime History Class. It was by this recognized as the ‘great academic’ who had consecrated the civil opening of this prestigious institution. Contente Domingues, after a long journey on which he would tranship the disease in the future, died last March 10. The Academy, the history and all who have crossed with it lose their physical presence and guarantee it in memory and agnition, dedicating to it a huge gratitude. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays tribute and expresses its regret for the death of Francisco Contente Domingues, expresses to his sons Rita and Francisco, his sister Maria Elisa Domingues and all his family, the Faculty of Letters, the Academy of Navy and his friends the deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u282	Thank you very much, Secretary. We shall proceed to the vote on this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now move on to the Vote Project No. 502 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the PS ) — To regret the death of the musicians Carlos Costa and Julio Costa. To read this vote, Mr Nelson Peralta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « The musicians Carlos Costa and Julio Costa died, the brothers who founded and integrated the famous Trio Odemira, an unmistakable group of Portuguese music that is part of the collective imaginary of several generations who grew up in the sound of their songs. The 93-year-old Carlos Costa left first on 8 March, and Julius Costa, 85 days later on 11 March. His story began to be told by the set Two Odemira, who, in 1955, won the competition for new talents promoted by the radio program Companiens da Alegria, de Iglesias Caeiro. They became Trio Odemira with the entrance of José Ribeiro, a musician who accompanied the group for 22 years. They recorded the first LP in 1957 by Valentim de Carvalho for Columbia and, a year later, they did the first world division. The records, the successes, the contracts and the divisions throughout the country and the world have succeeded, marking and revisiting more than 40 countries. The Costa brothers were always the great pillars of the Trio Odemira, which included 13 different musicians over the years. Because of its unique career, the group was distinguished by several occasions, of which are examples the Gold Medal of Cultural Merit of the Municipality of Almada and the Municipal Medal of Merit awarded by the Municipality of Odemira, for the important role played in the dissemination of Odemira's name in the country and abroad, where they acted as their ambassadors in the world. over 60 years of activity, the Trio Odemira achieved impressive records, with 122 records and 1228 recorded songs, a platinum disc and six gold discs. It is referred to as the first group of light music to record on disc themes popular Alentejos. Anel de Noivado, Ana Maria, or Rio Mira will continue to accompany us and to thrill us, as well as the Trio Odemira. Carlos Costa and Júlio Costa, throughout their lives, dedicated themselves to the music and the Trio Odemira, building careers as long as consecrated and leaving us a legacy in Portuguese music culture that should make us very proud. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays tribute and expresses its regret for the death of Carlos Costa and Julius Costa and expresses and addresses to its relatives and friends their heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. What remains in the memory of many generations is always in history. The Costa brothers and Trio Odemira have long been in the history of our country and the music of our country. We shall proceed to the vote on this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] The Vote Project No. 499 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Congratulations on the consecration of Auriol Dongmo, Pedro Pablo Pichardo and Patrícia Mamona as European champions of athletics. In order to read this draft vote, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is of the following content: « In 36. the edition of the European Championship of Athletics in Pista Covera, which took place in Torun, Poland, Auriol Dongmo, in the proof of the launch of weight, and Pedro Pablo Pichardo and Patrícia Mamona, in the triple jump, have consecrated European champions of their modalities. With three gold medals and one unpublished second place in the medals frame, the Portuguese athletes contributed to the best ever participation of Portugal in an edition of the European Championship of Athletics in Pista Covera. This consecration of national athletics, confirming the excellence of the performance already revealed in previous championships, is the result of the effort that, in recent decades, has been made by the clubs and by the Portuguese Federation of Athletics, especially with regard to the high competition, and the commitment and great sports ability of national athletes. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the victories achieved by Auriol Dongmo, Pedro Pablo Pichardo and Patrícia Mamona, as well as the participation of the other athletes, trainers and other technical team and federative leaders who so well knew how to honour national colors. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u286	Thank you very much, Secretary. to the athletes, who are present in the galleries, I mean that it was a huge vibration to watch your trials and, above all, it was a huge pride to have them as winners of these trials. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[General applause, stand up.]] We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 940 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the decentralization of medical boards for confirmation and graduation of disability in the process of repairing occupational disease. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 833 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government international coordination measures for the protection of the Iberian wolf. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and CH abstentions.]] We will now vote for the Resolution Project No. 858 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the conservation measures of the Iberian wolf. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CH abstentions.]] We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 866 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Strengthening measures to protect the Iberian wolf in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1029 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Plan to monitor populations of Iberian wolf and its wild prey and preventive measures for the protection of the species. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CH abstentions.]] The vote on draft resolution No 997 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government abandon the Energy Charter Treaty. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PCP abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 976 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that public higher education students are not required to pay any value related to propins, rates and emoluments while enforcing measures to prevent, contain, mitigate and treat epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the non-registered CH and MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 1033 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Measures to support scientific research and its professionals. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We then proceed to the general vote on Bill No 190 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Decree-Law No 75 / 2008 of 22 April 2008 — Regime of autonomy, administration and management of public institutions of pre-school education and basic and secondary education [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PAN and IL.]] The general vote of Bill No. 192 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Democratic management of pre-school establishments and basic and secondary education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 206 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government evaluate and consider a model for democratic management of public institutions in basic and secondary schools. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 958 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — By carrying out the service of support for tenants and handling complaints of property harassment. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] Let us now proceed to the joint vote, in general, on draft resolutions Nos 957 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By requalification of the piece Vale de Santarém / Entroncamento, of the North Line, including the variant in Santarém and 965 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Construction of the railway variant Santarém / Entronicamento, of the North Line. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] These diplomas fall to 6. the Commission. We also have to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1001 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the modernization of the North Line between Santarém and Entronicamento and the resolution of the Santarém barrier problem. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma also falls to 6. the Commission. Mr Hugo Costa asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u287	Mr President, it is to announce that, in relation to the last three diplomas voted, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver to the Bureau a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u288	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. I now give the floor to Secretary Nelson Peralta to take note of the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u289	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Central Criminal Court of Guimarães — Judge 1, Case No 1624 / 16.0T9BRG, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies gave an opinion to authorize Mrs Clara Marques Mendes ( PSD ) to intervene within the framework of those cars. I also note that the request by the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Central Criminal Court of Guimarães — Judge 1, Case No 1624 / 16.0T9BRG, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies gave an opinion to authorize Mr Fernando Negrão ( PSD ) to intervene within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u290	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinions are under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for them. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that our next plenary meeting will take place on 25 Thursday for 14 hours and 30 minutes. from 31 January to 14 February and from 15 February to 1 March 2021. In the second point we will appreciate a new request for authorization to renew the state of emergency. On the third point, we will discuss the Bill No 78 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the cessation of the suspension of procedural and procedural deadlines adopted under the COVID-19 disease pandemic. At the fourth point, we will proceed to the joint debate of Bills Nos. 684 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Change the framework rules of the Local Economy Support Programme ( PAEL ) and 693 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — ensures that the rules for non-compliance and termination of the Financial Adjustment Plan are amended within the framework of the Local Economy Support Programme by amending Law No 43 / 2012 of 28 August and Resolution Projects No 740 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — For the support of the Azorian tourist information guides which are in the scenario of true social and economic periclitancy by the action of COVID-19, 753 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — By taking measures to protect local trade and restoration during the state of emergency and 990 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — Reopening of hairdressers and barbers from next 22 February, establishing a set of measures to prevent infection with COVID-19. of the fifth point is the discussion of the Bill No. 676 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Exceptional and temporary regime, in the context of the epidemiological situation caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus and by the disease COVID-19, marking the general elections for local authorities to be held in 2021, 696 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Ensures the appropriate conditions for the elections of local authorities of 2021 in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic, making the first amendment to the Organic Law No 3 / 2020 of 11 November, and the tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August and 762 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — By updating the electoral books. The sixth point provides for the assessment of Decree-Law No 102 - D / 2020 of 10 December— Approves the general waste management regime, the legal regime for landfilling waste and changes the regime for the management of specific waste flows, transposing Directives ( EU ) 2018 / 849, 2018 / 850, 2018 / 851 and 2018 / 852 [ Parliamentary assessments No 36 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 37 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 38 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) ]. In the seventh point, CL will proceed to the discussion of Bill Nos 68 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Returns amounts and calculation rules on termination of the contract of employment and dismissal, 50 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Repeals the amendments to the Labour Code introduced in the period of the troika which came to facilitate lay-offs and reduce compensation due to workers by making the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 692 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Repeals the presumption of acceptance of collective dismissal due to acceptance of compensation paid by the employer, making the sixth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 704 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Repeals the legal presumption of acceptance of dismissal for objective reasons when the employer makes compensation available to the worker(Tenth sixth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February) and 714 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Change the amounts and criteria for calculating compensation in the event of termination of the contract of employment and dismissal ( 10th amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). of the eighth and final point are the voting of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, an announcement will now be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u291	Mr. President, I just wanted to announce that you have entered the Bureau on draft resolution No 1107 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 8. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-17.u292	There are no more points on the agenda and making the announcements that should be made, I wish you a good night. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 20 hours and 8 minutes.]]
