ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the authority, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I would ask that the gallery doors be opened to the public. We will begin this session with the indication of precious information by Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u2	Mr President, I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Members and I inform the House that they have entered the Office of the President of the Assembly of the Republic and have been admitted, the Draft Resolution Nos 1504 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1505 / XIV / 3. a ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1506 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAR). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u3	Let us then begin the agenda, which was established by the CDS-PP, with the joint assessment, in general, of the Bills Nos 886 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Termination of the exceptional regime for flexible enforcement of penalties and free measures in the field of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19, as set out in Law No 9 / 2020 of 10 April, 885 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Repeal of Law No 9 / 2020 of 10 April on the exceptional regime for flexible enforcement of penalties and free measures in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic and 1017 / XIV/3. a ( CH) — Repeals Law No 9 / 2020 of 10 April — Exceptional scheme for flexibility in the enforcement of penalties and measures for free, within the framework of the COVID-19 pandemic, and also creates instruments for the protection of public security and stability in the judicial organisation. I have the floor by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, which has set this agenda, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS used its latest legislative agenda for this matter to be discussed, because it seemed to us that it would make no sense to close our work without a matter which has been in public opinion, and that so many times has been spoken, it had no decision here. What is at stake, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very simple. It is in question putting an end to a regime which irrespective of its original intention no longer makes sense, i.e. Law No 9 / 2020. This law had, from its very beginning, and this is very clear in terms of its own law, an exceptional nature. We are referring to exceptional measures in a serious period of pandemic, country confinement and, of course, at very high risk. at this time, not having the pandemic disappeared, as is evident, the situation is relatively controlled. Exceptional measures and, in particular, all the most serious measures have already been taken and, above all, vaccination, which is obviously the link between these measures and reality, or their adaptation, does not justify this law. Vaccination is completed and is practically completed throughout the entire prison system and therefore nothing justifies the maintenance of this law, which is why it must be repealed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u6	What did this law allow? It allowed partial forgiveness of sentences, allowed a special pardon regime, still allowed special and extraordinary administrative exit regimes, and, obviously, they all made it possible for prisoners to leave the jails, even though, in some cases, they had, and obviously had to return, depending on the measure applied. On the basis of this regime, anything like 3000 prisoners has been released, which has far surpassed the original forecast, which would round the 2000 prisoners, and of these, some 500 to 600 will have returned, depending on the measure that has been applied to them. I wanted to tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, from the point of view of the CDS, of whom you have marked this legislative agenda, what is at stake today, and what I would like to discuss today, being practical, being pragmatic and effective, is not the origin of the law, nor even its original goodness. That is not what we want to discuss today. That is not what is on the table today. Moreover, this discussion was held and it should be remembered that, in this discussion, when I had the opportunity to participate, we never denied that the law was based on humanitarian arguments, which, obviously, did not then refuse and we do not reject now. What we said at the time, and what the parties said that, at the time, they opposed the same law, was that there could be another way. in our opinion, in a space that is confined by nature, such as that of the prison system, there were ways to respond to the pandemic or pandemic outbreaks that would not imply a wide release, so to speak, of prisoners from prisons. At the time, we made the parallel to the situations in which campaign hospitals were mounted in the country. It seemed to us that this was a possible solution: to use the prison space for, like what was done out here for the generality of the patients, there could be the use of this system, with the reinforcement of doctors, nursing staff, etc. And there were still minimums that should have been fulfilled, as, for example, that these exits would have to be replaced by house arrest, as, moreover, it was made and presented in a proposal, except for error, of the Social Democratic Party. So this was our idea. I must say, moreover, that this solution, to replace prison by house arrest, was the solution adopted in other countries that followed this path, for example, in France or Italy. So we did not follow the original solution, but we did not deny that it would have a humanitarian intention. Today, the situation is completely different. And what's at stake today? Today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a situation in which there have been six months of the last state of emergency, eight months or more than eight months, in particular 242 days, of the last state of confinement in our country — eight months have passed since we left the state of emergency — and there have been five months about the lifting of the main exceptional measures. Therefore, to maintain an exceptional regime only for the chains, which continues to release prisoners in this context, in which the generality of the measures have been lifted and they already go for many months on the state of exception, does not, from our point of view, make any sense. And not only does it not make sense to contribute to the discredit of justice to the generality of the citizens, because people think that the penalties are, of course, to comply, except, of course, with the clemency measures that already exist, or others, which are applicable and exist in a normal situation. And, of course, it's in a normal situation. On how justice looks at this same matter, I think we should also take into account the views of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, which are both peripheries. I quote, very briefly, the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry : « From the point of view of the rights of the prison population, nothing prevents the cessation of the law and therefore seems to be giving agreement to the bill ».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u8	The Supreme Council of the Magistracy has already said that, given the positive evolution of the pandemic and the ongoing vaccination process — the opinion is already time-consuming and, therefore, today is no longer in progress, it must be concluded that there is no longer any basis for the maintenance of the regime in question. Therefore, the matter that the CDS brings here today is absolutely consistent with what the Superior Councils say, whether the Public Ministry or the Magistracy. I would also like to say that, looking at this regime and looking back, the truth is that there have been no, fortunately, major outbreaks or major problems in the Portuguese chains. There have been cases, there have been patients, I don't know if there have been deaths — I have no record of it — but at least deaths in the same terms that occurred in the homes of elderly people, for example, have not happened and, therefore, globally, the system, from this point of view, has been able to function, despite the complex and difficult conditions that we have in our prison system and that are a chronic evil, in our country, for decades to this part. I remember that someone has recognized — the then Minister of Justice and today Prime Minister — that the country has not invested in prisons since 25 April. in an initial phase, it was understandable, because we had reached freedom, but then, effectively, the country never made the necessary investments. But that is not the subject of this debate either. We are not here to discuss the prison system, to discuss the difficulties of the prison system, to discuss the lack of human resources, and others, in the prison system. This is a very important debate, but that is not what we are discussing here. This regime, and I am not making a judgment of value, has actually served to reduce overcrowding of the chains, because it has seriously reduced the prison population in our country. We had a rate of 122, 7 prisoners per 100 000 inhabitants, and at the end of this scheme we passed to 109, 6 prisoners per 100 000 inhabitants, bringing us closer to the European Union average. I do not want to make a judgment of value on this, our critical position on the regime is known, but in fact it helped to solve the problem of overcrowding, and this is very clear, for example, in the report we discussed here last week of the Ombudsman's Office. I have no data on recurrence, about what happened to people who have been released and, therefore, I cannot draw any conclusion about it. I can even admit that the defenders of the regime say here that it has also contributed so that there have not been any major problems in chains in terms of pandemic. I do not have any concrete data on this, but we theoretically admit that it may have contributed. However, what we are discussing here today and what we are solving here today is whether or not it makes sense that this regime continues to exist. And, in our opinion, we have, in fact, brought this proposal—it makes no sense. Moreover, look at the following: we speak in general normality in the country—just look at us here, in Parliament, for the way we function today and how we function at that time, but this is reflected in the whole society — in the period I have already mentioned, of lifting the last measures, and if, fortunately, we have 85 % or 86 % of the vaccinated population, in the prison system, the vaccination rate is 91 %, which also underlines, of course, the need for this scheme. I would conclude by saying that when the Minister of Justice, in committee, was asked by me, she replied that it would depend on the success of this vaccination rate scheme, which at the time was 70 %. Today, we are 91 % and we know that the government itself has already voted in favour of the end of this regime, although I would say I might have taken the initiative. But, as you did not, the CDS has taken the initiative and we hope that there will be a broad consensus here today for this regime to end and for it to be repositioned and done, from this point of view, better justice in our country. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u9	Mr President, the Bureau records the registration of Mr Carlos Peixoto of the PSD Parliamentary Group to make a request for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Telmo Correia, I would like to congratulate the schedule which you bring here and which, as you know, tells the PSD a lot, that it was the first party to present a bill in this House to end this release, almost release, of prisoners. Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u11	Hey! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u12	They will all agree that a virus does not fight with an order of release, nor can it be a prize or a trophy for a convicted person in prison. The idea is simple, and we always transmit it: whoever performs prison sentences, must do it in chains and only for very heavy reasons is that he should do it through the so-called "home prison regime", using the electronic bracelet, but returning to the chain as soon as he stops the reason he put it out. This is the logic that any Portuguese understands and that, as has already been said, many Europeans also understand and advocate in their countries. So let's be serious. In fact, we are not here discussing any policy on the enforcement of penalties, nor any reform of the criminal system. There is no question of the choice between detention sentences of liberty and non-detention, or between options between prison and humanism, or between mercy and punishment. That's not what's at stake, that's not the discussion. What is at stake and what we have discussed in the past, and today we have on the table, is, alone and only, an exceptional situation in a pandemic that forced the adoption of measures to protect the health and life of the prison population — nothing more! And what did the government do? The government did not hide what was coming, and so half a sound—politically, sound—and half a concealment, took the living, lively, management behind it. And they all put it in the pocket—I think no one noticed this, but they all did it—with some defiance, the judicial system, the judiciary, the one who, in each case, says who should be arrested and for how long he should be arrested. We have arrived here and completely removed the independence of the judiciary, the autonomy of each judge and the vision that each has of the concrete case to decide wisely. So what you have done, what all of you have done was to decree, in generic and simple terms, a two-year sentence for all convicted, not for all, but for a large range of types of crimes. So, in an apex, they put out nearly 3,000 inmates who naturally prevariated. Attention, inmates are not second-aged citizens, nothing like that, but they have prevarised and harmed people, some of whom for the rest of their lives—we need to know this. Therefore, the trick is classic, we already know it: with the pretext of safeguarding the public health of the prison universe, the government masks its main objective,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u13	Are you talking about the Rendeiro?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u14	... that was not a health objective, it was, yes, the objective of solving a structural problem, overcrowding of chains, problem to which it never linked any, nor had any kind of ability to solve. It has saved the government a lot of money, it is true, but it has faced the harmony of the criminal system—and we must be careful of this—and, moreover, it has left behind, belittled, the victims of the crimes committed by the prisoners released. Even more, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you have managed to have released a pro-Christian figure from the Socialist Party — I do not need to say its name — whose government clemency, justly or unjustly, caused social alarm and outrage in the people. [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, things are what they are! You may think one thing, but public perception is another. I'm sorry to say to you: I know it was neither intentional nor deliberate, but we have to be careful with this in here, because what seems to be out there is that this leads to the arrangement. [[PS protests.]] You see? Oh, my God! Sometimes we "put ourselves in the way" and then it's a great mess. Here you are, what I meant to tell you, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? As reality has shown, fear of an outbreak of COVID in chains did not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u15	Mr President, you have already exceeded the usual time allocated to a request for clarification, but, as you are spending your overall time, you can continue, if you want.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u16	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that it seems to us that the law on the release of prisoners has already fulfilled its objective and its future application is merely residual. In addition, the government has already decreed and has long celebrated the end of the emergency measures, so no one would understand that they would, on the one hand, fill football stadiums, restaurants and automobile circuits and, on the other hand, empty prisons, that is, on the one hand, without fear of the COVID-19 and on the other hand, with fear of the COVID-19. Therefore, in our view, this law should be repealed. What I ask you, Mr Telmo Correia, is that if you don't think it's enough to let go of the convicted, the trailer of a pandemic that has served for everything but to keep in the prisons who was condemned to that, and that has now served to empty the prisons, contrary to everything we should understand and do. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u17	There's still one who hits the palms!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u18	To reply, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u19	Mr President, Mr Peixoto, I am grateful for your question and for the opportunity I have to clarify again and even densify some of the issues I have addressed in the initial presentation of our diploma. I begin by saying that I was not reminded of this detail of whom I first presented the legislative initiatives — indeed, I admit until this presentation was practically simultaneous. But I was aware that the PSD had always had this position, in fact, talked about it several times. That is why, when I marked this power schedule of the CDS and was contacted by your parliamentary leader, I immediately gave my consent to that PSD, which was the only party that had so far an initiative on this matter, could, by dragging, schedule its project, so that both projects could be discussed together, which, in fact, have the same object, the same meaning. However, another project, from the Arrival, appeared, which goes a little beyond what contains the CDS and PSD projects. But CDS and PSD projects are consistent, so it would make sense that they were discussed together. I also want to tell you that, when we talk about criminal justice and enforcement of sentences, it is clear what I said recently and that it agrees with what you have just said, and that it is the following: penalties, as a rule, must be to comply with. If people have been convicted, they must comply with the penalties, obviously within the precarious exits they have and within the fulfilment of the possibility of liberation, which is in the law and is the normal rule. In other words, when we repeal this regime, we create nothing again, we limit ourselves to returning to the criminal regime we have and to the normality of the country, which must be the enforcement of penalties, because I agree with you that something else, logically, causes social alarm and concern. It is clear that in the society in which we live, with the mediatism that these subjects have, the mere news that, even at that stage of the peak of the pandemic, there were prisoners who were going out and who had no place to go, people who, having committed crimes before, were in a situation of abandonment and did not even have a place to go, before this, the possibility of these people being able to recidivize is, at the head of most of our fellow citizens, I say, obviously very great and natural cause of concern and alarm. So there is an alarm effect, which we cannot ignore, in these measures. however, that is no longer what we are talking about today. I also wanted to tell you that I did not deliberately want to make a judgment of intent, because I did not want to go any further in this discussion. But objectively, this measure was used to solve the problem of overcrowding chains. It is a fact against which there is no argument. We had a prison population of more than 12,000 prisoners and 3,000 left, but there were also those who returned. On the basis of the balance sheet, we will have reduced to more than 10 000, i.e. we have passed from more than 12 000 to more than 10 000 prisoners. Therefore, there was objectively a reduction, is the biggest reduction in many years. This adds to our argument for the repeal of this regime. Why? For a very simple reason: because at the moment there is no problem of overcrowding and therefore there is no argument of densification such within chains that it is necessarily necessary to create space. Moreover, there are small prison establishments that have seen their problem completely resolved from this point of view. The objectives of the prison system or the criminal system are not at stake either, because they are obvious. Obviously, what we want is for people to pay sentences if they have been convicted, but we also want them to be treated with all the conditions of dignity while they are in prison. But this is something that is solved not here, but in the State Budget. Investment in chains, food, conditions of dignity, all these are things that are resolved in the State budget and that have been protected year after year. For us, as a humanist party and a Christian-democratic matrix, resocialization must also be the objective of the prison system, and not another. We do not believe in a strictly punitive system, we believe in a system of resocialization — that is our understanding. But that's not what we're discussing here today either. What I would conclude by not running away from your question of more media cases is that the mediation of the case you referred to was inevitable. I believe that this was not an exceptional situation, but a normal application of the regime. It happened to be an ex-politic. The only strangeness there is, then, reading that the reasons for condemnation—but, as I do not know the case, I do not want to pronounce myself on a detail of a process I do not know—would not have to do with the political nature or the political position, because the law itself already exempted the crimes of corruption, the crimes committed by politicians and the crimes committed by high public officials. So we can even question ourselves about this, but not about the exceptionality of the regime, because that particular citizen benefited from the regime in the same terms as any other citizen would have benefited. Finally, Mr President, I would just like to say to you, thanking you for your question, that we need to realize, when you talk about the question of social awareness, that in some way the times have changed here too. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to remind you of the fact that I have been in this world and also in this House for the time when large amnesties were granted for this or that: the President of the Republic was elected and we had a broad amnesty, with forgiveness of penalty, all possible road registrations, etc.; the Pope was coming to Portugal — and, well, it is always a great event, I would not say otherwise — and there was a wide amnesty, with various liberations. We have, in principle, always been critical of these amnesties, and we have been fiercely critical of some of them, such as those of the FP-25 of April (People's Forces 25 of April). But we are not at that time, Mr President. Today, these amnesties are not possible, they would not be socially acceptable. Therefore, it is also appropriate that a regime which was exceptional about the pandemic, when the pandemic situation is controlled and when vaccination in the prison system is 91 %, does not remain in force when there is no longer the argument that gave rise to it. That is all we want, no more than this, obviously agreeing with your question, which, once again, I thank you. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u20	Mr André Coelho Lima, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on this issue, where it is normal for us to have identical approaches, since the facts are all known, it is interesting to track the process and see it from the beginning to realize, first, what it has brought to us all, even though some want us not all to be together, and then see what has separated us. This began with the presidential decree which renewed the declaration of the state of emergency and which in Article 6. in the wake of what had already been said by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the following was said: "Exceptional and urgent measures may be taken to protect citizens deprived of their liberty in the execution of a sentencing decision, as well as staff serving in prison establishments, with a view to reducing the vulnerability of persons in these establishments to the disease CVID-19". This was what the presidential decree that renewed, at the time, April 2nd, another state of emergency. from here to day 10 everything that has already occurred in the parliamentary field and the approval of Law No 9 / 2020. What did the government present immediately next day? He put forward here a bill that proposed the following: firstly, forgiveness of sentences, all short, therefore, someone is serving a penalty and is forgiven for the fulfilment of that penalty. But that sentence had two criteria: whoever had been sentenced for up to two years or to whom two years were missing for serving the penalty, i.e. criteria, exclusively, of temporality and not of the circumstances in which people were arrested, although it must be said that, except for a set of crimes, as we all know. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u22	He then had an extraordinary 45-day administrative license regime and still had an extraordinary expectation of conditional freedom within six months, which was expected to follow the 45-day administrative licence. Therefore, basically, there were seven and a half months of anticipation of parole, in addition to the forgiveness of sentences up to two years or penalties for which two years were missing. in this discussion, several parties came to the game. The PSD came to play, presenting a different proposal, but a proposal that also provided for the release of prisoners and that prison establishments were allowed to be able to grant prisoners protection under the COVID-19 disease. So what did we propose? We proposed, rather than pardoning sentences, a replacement of the penalty, which was kept in compliance with the housing permanence regime, i.e. the so-called house arrest, i.e. the people continued to pay their penalty, but met it at home with the means of technical supervision at the distance that they are already used. The prison population to which this measure was directed was only the one that integrated risk groups within the scope of the COVID-19, i.e. prisoners aged 60 or over, prisoners with diseases that make them particularly vulnerable to the COVID-19 and pregnant or underage inmates up to 3 years of age. There was, on the one hand, the regime of the Government and the Socialist Party, which was a regime that had a exclusively temporary criterion, i.e. in the sense that there was little time left to finish the sentence, then the prisoner was already leaving; on the other hand, there was a proposal of ours, which freed those who needed to be released, i.e. also had exceptions, but freed those who needed to be released, who integrated the risk groups of the CVID-19. So, first of all, and very important: we have never been against the release of prisoners. They were false and, besides false, extremely unfair the criticisms that were then directed at us. Yes, we were against the release of prisoners on the basis of these arguments which I have just discriminated against. We were against making a non-criteria release, and we were not only against how we presented an alternative with criteria and not with a purely temporary release, but rather with substantive criteria. We were still against, as Mr Peixoto said today, because this also represented, as is read in the opinions of the Superior Council of the Magistrature and the Public Ministry, a broad disregard for judicial decisions or, if we want, what we should obviously be responsible for, a veto on the work of the Public Prosecutor and the judicial magistrates in their assessment of the penalties they have assigned in the framework of their decisions. We were still against, because, without a substantive criterion on the part of the Government, it was clear that the aim of the Government was not to protect the prison population, but rather to combat the effective and never assumed overcrowding of the Portuguese chains. This was the reality! The truth is that this ended in April 2020 and until June 2021 nothing happened. But nothing happened, nothing did the government, the Minister, including, said on 8 April, here on 1st. the Commission, which would be released 1200 prisoners and, last week, it had already estimated between 1700 and 2000 prisoners and on 20 June, a news that took into account the release of 2850 prisoners. What this means, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? That or someone was incompetent, or that someone has misled us, because we cannot pass from a 10% release forecast to a 26% release forecast! And here there's no unpredictability, because we know who's under arrest, why he's under arrest and what penalties he's doing. So there is no unpredictability, what leads to such a big difference between Mr. Minister's forecast in the Council of Ministers from 1200 to 2850, at the end of June, not today? That said, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we have is that June 30 this year was the date when the task force undertook to have the fully vaccinated prison population and, say, Vice-Admiral Gouveia and Melo came out of his duties in the task force having fulfilled all the commitments with which he had committed himself, in particular this one. Today, I don't know if 98% of the prison population is vaccinated, because the prison population is dynamic, I don't know if there are negationists within the prison population, what we know is that the entire prison population is vaccinated and it was already on June 30. That is precisely why on the 23rd day the Social Democratic Party presented the bill that is currently under consideration, and did not only propose the repeal of the extraordinary law on the release of prisoners, did it by associating a draft resolution in terms of which we asked the Government to give absolute priority to vaccination, and on a very simple issue: because, for us, liberation has to be associated with vaccination and there is no reason why, from the moment that vaccination is complete, the release of prisoners does not stop. That is why the government has done nothing. The government, who is the one who presents this measure, absolutely nothing does! Let the time pass, let the vaccination pass, let the entire prison population vaccinate and even had — attention to what I am going to say — the chance of the Távoras, which is the fate of the Varas, of, however, having a release, which is the one we all know in the context of something that should have been revoked since the end of June. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that the PSD and the CDS submitted their proposals for the repeal of Law No 9 / 2020 in due course. And the PSD presented it associated, as I said, with the vaccination plan, because without vaccination there would be no revocation and vaccination would make no sense to keep this law in force. It doesn't today, nor does it since June 30th. From the moment that the prison population was all vaccinated, what was accomplished, what is the meaning of keeping this exceptional regime in force for the release of prisoners? It doesn't make any sense, or rather, it only has one, and here I end, which is where I started: to explain the real reason for this law, which is not to protect prisoners, but rather to avoid the overcrowding of Portuguese chains. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u23	For a request for clarification, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u24	Mr President, Mr Coelho Lima, on the part of the NAP, before any other statement, I would like to note that we have left for this debate with the absolutely basic idea—we hope that it will be possible to walk around it during this debate—that anyone who pays penalty or who fulfils a security measure in a prison establishment is a citizen, is a citizen. Of course we will have to take this into account during our debate, because it is indeed an idea that emanates from the Code of the Enforcement of the Privy Penalties and Measures of Freedom, an idea that emanates from international law and the European Union. Therefore, despite the limitations imposed by the sentencing decision, people have the same legal status, whether inside or outside prison establishments. This saving is essential mainly at the time these proposals are brought here. And I would like to tell you that we clearly distinguish the PSD and CDS proposals from the forthcoming proposal. On the initiatives of the PSD and the CDS, it is true that we speak of a temporary, exceptional law, which was adopted in the context of an unprecedented crisis and which should, for the most part, cease to apply when these basic assumptions are no longer in their exact terms. But at this time, with the imminent dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic, in a scenario of health crisis, which we are not yet absolutely sure how it will evolve, we would like to take advantage to address some questions to the honourable Member following his speech. If there is any worsening of the health crisis, people who are in prison will be handed over to themselves. Question : How does the PSD propose to resolve a situation like this? What is the solution they indicate, knowing in advance that this is the competence of the Assembly itself? We know that we are faced with an exceptional, temporary law, as I have already mentioned, and that one cannot hope that a law of this kind will solve a structural problem, such as the overcrowding of prison establishments, among many subjects. Now, what we would like to ask the honourable Member is that when they present a proposal for the repeal of this law, why do they not also submit a proposal for the repeal of restrictive measures applied in prisons, in particular with regard to the periodicity and duration of visits to prisoners and prisoners? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u25	To reply, Mr André Coelho Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u26	Mr President, first of all, I thank Mrs Bebiana with the questions she has addressed to me. in one of the questions you have asked me, the honourable Member has reflected on the purpose of the penalties, I would like to tell you very clearly that this party and this parliamentary bench are very comfortable with the absolute priority of resocialization as an end of punishment, and not punishment, or, if you wish, to the detriment of punishment. The purposes of punishment are those who are and the main objective is that society can re-socialize those who are caught or who, at certain moments of life, have practices that fall within the framework of the Penal Code. The Penal Code must apply, but we, society, can never give up on them, whatever they are. This is, and has always been, our position. Having said this, I would also like to tell you what we expect to do if there is an increase in the pandemic situation. It is very simple: if there is an increase in the pandemic situation not only this measure, but all measures will have to be reviewed—in fact, there are very few measures still in force today, i.e. since the general defination there is almost nothing in force. What would be strange was the opposite, i.e. that the only thing that remained in force was this one.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u27	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u28	And I recall the temporal circumstances, which are important here: we presented this bill on June 23rd, and on June 23rd we were seven days away from having the fully vaccinated prison population. And being the fully vaccinated prison population, as it was, on that date, there is no reason, including a preventive reason, which was the one that said... i.e. a pandemic may arise, a fifth wave may arise, anything else may arise, and then we will maintain an absolutely exceptional, extraordinary measure and even a violation of judicial decisions, in force only because it can arise! I may even ask you: if it does not appear, will we continue to give this veto of drawer to the judicial decisions of the Public Prosecutor's Office? I don't think so. That wouldn't be responsible. With regard to the second question you have asked me, concerning restrictive measures — which I thank you very much, because I was going to say this recently from the rostrum, but in the midst of my notes it has passed — we have three directives from the Office of the Director-General for Reintegration and Prison Services : the GDG Directive 6 / 2021, which brought back the visits to young people in educational centres; the GDG Directive 10 / 2021, which brought back the visits to prison establishments with placement up to 375 inmates; and the GDG Directive 13 / 2021, which brought up the barriers in acrylic in visits to inmates. That is to say, even these measures are already being lifted, which would put us before the contingency — a little ridiculous, I must say — to be raised, less the extraordinary release of prisoners, which, of all, is the most serious and the most serious. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u29	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We discussed today the repeal of a law which had an extraordinary effect. The minister anticipated a release of 1100 prisoners after 1700, and more than 3000 prisoners were released. Only then would we have seen the competence of the Socialist Government in this matter: almost 30 % of the prison population — 27 % — has been released. It is good that our European partners know that 27 % of the prisoners have been released in Portugal! But it was important to know that more than 400 were reincided and it was important that the State and those who approved this rule should be responsible for those who committed new crimes while being released by the COVID law.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u31	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u32	More than 400 have returned! This is an infamous law, because he was releasing prisoners when most Portuguese were confined to their homes. It is a law that released prisoners to the alleged shelter of any principle, while the generality of Portugal was closed in their houses and looking out for the country that was liberated. But it still claimed, by coincidence or not, that an illustrious socialist was released under this law, when everyone said that it was not possible to release Armando Vara from the prison system. The whole country saw him go out, laughing at you, us and the whole country as he went out, released by a law that should never have freed him. [[PS protests.]] But the proposal from arrive goes further. We have the right to know how many prisoners have been released by this law, what kind of crimes were involved, in which areas they have been released, and in which prisons have been made. This is an urgent step to know and to know: how many have been released, why, in what circumstances and how many can still be released in Portugal if today we do not repeal this law. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u33	You have the floor, by the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When, about a year and a half ago, the proposed law of the Government which is intended to revoke today was discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, we stressed that, although temporarily reducing the prison population was necessary for the protection of prisoners and their own prison officials, the way of doing so was wrong. Today we know that this law gave rise to situations that clearly call into question constitutional rights. As the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, on the draft of the CDS-PP discussed here, the law is so ambiguous that it gave rise to different treatment of prisoners in materially equal situations, in clear violation of the principle of equality. But it was not only the principle of equality, there is also a clear disregard for the principle of practical agreement, because the evolution of pandemic and vaccination, however verified, has substantially reduced the risk to health and to the life of prisoners and employees, and this exception is no longer justified. It is therefore time to restore the normality of the penalty enforcement regime. One last note to stress that this issue is another example of the incompetence with which the Government addresses problems like this. Incompetence in the initial estimate of the number of prisoners to be covered by the exception, which started for a little more than 1000 and will have been released more than 3000 people, and the incompetence for not having been the Government itself to take the initiative to put an end to the law after the end of the state of emergency or the percentage of adequate vaccination. The lack of a culture of accountability is at the root of the profusion of these cases of incompetence, and that is also why the days of this government are counted.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u35	Mr José Manuel Pureza, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The law that is before us today has been adopted for a year and a half. The country remembers the incendiary alarmism of the extreme right that shouted at the seven winds that came there a wave of what it called 'the bandits placed on the street', murderers, rapists, aggressors of all kinds — barbaric violence would take care of the country. A year and a half back, the gross lie of this alarm is in sight of everyone. of the approximately 3000 inmates who saw their time of imprisonment reduced, and of which 2000 remained in house arrest, the number of recurrences or disobedience to the conditions imposed by the authorities was unequivocally residual — 1, 8 %. But more than anything else, the law has fulfilled its essential, humanitarian and public health purpose. It was a sensible and prudent measure to, at a time when vaccination was not even underway, prevent large-scale contagios, which would have had absolutely catastrophic lethal effects. We did well, all of whom we wanted this step to be taken. We arrive here with quiet consciousness for having protected many human lives. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]] The reason for this law was not only public health, nor was it only prison policy. It was clearly crossing between the two. In other words, the public health emergency in the prisons caused by COVID was dramatic, because prisons are little more than mega warehouses where society is amassing people, leaving them there to plant, without project or horizon. Governments — such as the previous ones — can hammer statistics to demonstrate that there is no technical overcrowding. But even though statistics are hammered, there is no way to deny the immensity of numbers. As pointed out by the Vicentina Work of Aid to Prisoners, which was awarded with the Human Rights Award of this House, in the last 20 years the prison population has ranged from a minimum of 10,807 prisoners in 2008 and a maximum of 14,284 in 2013, with the value of 11,412 in 2020. Although statistics are hammered, there is no way to deny the exiguous cells with three and more inmates or those in which the comrades remain. Although statistics are hammered, there is no denying that Portugal is one of the countries of the European Union with a higher rate of imprisonment and a longer average time of punishment. More, imprisonment and long imprisonment for the lesser accumulated crime of young and poor people, from driving without a letter or non-payment of fines, in contrast to the complicity lassitude with which the bankers who flee or the perpetrators of criminal management of banks, who are suddenly attacked by amnesias and other serious cognitive diseases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u38	It was because we had such a prison system, the warehouse of inert and superfluous people, for this reason, that it is a shame for a decent society and for a rule of law that takes itself seriously, that the risk of contagion of COVID became so dramatic in 2020. It was the combination of these two reasons that made the exceptional law that we then passed irrevocable. A society that mounts, far from sight, persons deprived of liberty and a democracy that exhibits indifference to the daily non-compliance of the most basic rights in the prison environment and to the definition of any consistent strategy of social reintegration, a society and a democracy so are producers of dignity and social exclusion. This is the reality. It's been a long time since this is the reality. It is about her that lays the enormous risk of public health that has motivated the law. All that then led to the maximum alert and that justified an exception law is there and will remain there today, tomorrow and then as an expression of a huge social irresponsibility. It may be right, from a legal point of view, to cease the application of an exceptional diploma. But the exception that is the reality of the prison system in Portugal, it remains, with all the risks associated with it. They say those who have always opposed Law No 9 / 2020 that the only reason that the law had justified, that is, the giantism of the risk of infection by COVID and high rates of serious disease and lethality, ceased to exist. You'll be right right now. I hope they continue to have it in a month or two, which the medical and scientific community seems to deny in anticipation of a possible fifth wave of the disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u39	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u40	But whatever the case, those who invoke the significant decrease in the intensity of the pandemic to put an end to the law, then it is necessary to be consistent and to be struck equally by the immediate end of the consequences of continuing to operate in prisons the regime of serious pandemic. I explain: because it is in a condition of severe pandemic that the government believes that prisons should work, the law that gives prisoners the right to two weekly visits each hour is not being complied with, and one at the end of the week. Because we're in a severe pandemic, every prisoner is only entitled to half an hour's visit per week and never on the weekend. Because we're in a severe pandemic, a prisoner who touches a relative on one of these lightning visits has to stay in quarantine 14 days in an isolated cell. Because we are in severe pandemics, a hospital trip or a precarious exit requires that the prisoner also be quarantined. But then we ask ourselves: did the pandemic end up for forgiveness of sentences, exceptional pardons or day leave, which the law assigns to the prisoners? Will the current legislative initiatives have the courage to be coherent to the end, in their reasoning, or will they be exposed merely to their prejudice? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be justified, strictly technical and legal, not to let an exception law become permanent. She has fulfilled her role, and in the belief that the vaccination rate will prevent an increase in cases from having serious clinical consequences, it is acceptable that we enter another phase. On the other hand, it is clear that a law with public health concerns cannot serve to replace laws and courageous practices, to respond to what needs to be done or to hide the lack of such laws and practices. The worst thing that could happen was having a law that saved lives in prisons to forget the conditions in which these lives live in the same prisons the next day. There will certainly be anyone who wants to do it. in the Block, you know, let's not give in to the ease of indifference. It is necessary to oppose a culture of prison drive, which passes from social networks and tabloids to institutions. Prison policy must be reversed, investing seriously in non-prison punitive territories, such as electronic surveillance. Resocialization and social reintegration must cease to be empty rhetoric or bureaucratic routine and become what must always be: the primordial end of punishment, deburocratizing its regime, motivating its professionals, not continuing to waste so much knowledge and so much good experience, thrown into the shelves of forgetfulness. Prisons must stop being black holes of legality, in which, instead of educating prisoners to the law, they are shown, every day they pass, that the law stays out there. The rehabilitation of the penitentiary park must be a serious political priority rather than a mantra of advertisements and reports left to gain dust, such as what this government published in 2017 and which has been fully referred to the forgetfulness of policies since then. No decision we make today will answer these challenges. They're all gonna stay. At the neglect of us, we are joined by the vengeful pulse that runs around, blown by the extreme right. on this side, we affirm our commitment to beat ourselves by a penitentiary policy based on social reintegration, the dignity of all and their rights, because that is the rule and not the exception. [[Greetings from BE and P.S. Member of Ascension Simões.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u41	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are appreciating bills for the repeal of an exceptional and transitional law. As such, what we shall say at the time of the vote is whether we consider that the regime of exceptionality and transitoryness should be maintained or whether it is time to cease and return to a pre-existing legal regime. Since this is the issue we understand, of course, that there are no more exceptional assumptions that have dictated the approval of Law No 9 / 2020. in this sense, when we vote, we will vote in favour of both the PSD and the CDS projects — we will not follow the CDS because, as Mr Telmo Correia said, there are other things that will little matter to this debate – but we do so with very different assumptions from those who have always guided the positions of the PSD and the CDS on this matter. You have always been against the approval of Law No 9 / 2020. in this particular point, concerning the prison system, we consider that this law had all the justification and that the arguments that you have brought to the debate, in the sense of the supposed negative consequences that would result from the adoption of this legislation, would not occur. Time-CL will give us reason. In other words, you propose the repeal of this legislation not because there has been any wave of crime or because there have been significant recurrences, they propose that because they have always been against the approval of this legislation and it is understandable from your point of view that they are proposing that it should cease. We believe that it must cease because the regime is exceptional and transitional and the exceptional and transitional regimes should not be eternal, not because Law No 9/ 2020 has been negative, because, from our point of view, it has been positive and this has been clearly demonstrated.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u44	We also never understand this law as a criminal policy measure in general. On the other hand, with regard to measures of clemency — in fact, for many years now — where there have been measures of clemency adopted in this House, the position of the CFP was to consider that they were justified by themselves, i.e. as measures of clemency and not as measures of prison policy. That is, we never understand that clemency measures would serve to solve problems in the prison system that have to be solved differently,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u45	... and not through clemency measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u46	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u47	It is not by administrative decision or by legislative measure that the problem of the prison system is solved! It must be solved and it must be otherwise! We must also say that this plan, announced a few years ago by the Government, the 10-year plan for the prison system, runs the risk of other plans that we have already known and that have not passed from the role, such as the plan entrusted to Prof. Diogo Freitas do Amaral by then Minister Celeste Cardona. The plan was very good, but then it was not executed. What we're looking at is that this 10-year-old plan started right now by hanging out with the bags on the island of São Miguel and, in fact, it hasn't had feet to walk yet, which is regrettable. Let's see if we won't be here a few years ago regretting that, once again, like the « Freitas do Amaral plan », the « Franciscoca Van Dunem plan » has ended up not leaving the paper. The problems of the prison system are of another type and should not be solved by transitional or exceptional measures. in this case, we can say that exceptionality, apparently from what we are given to perceive, should in fact cease. There is a position that deserves serious criticism: the position of the government in this process. What Law No 9/ 2020 determines is that there should be a law in this House to consider that exceptionality and transitoryness were no longer justified, and that the rule of law should cease. Who better than the Government would be empowered to give this House the information necessary for this measure to cease?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u48	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u49	The government did not do so — it should have tabled a bill — but it did worse! With regard to the release of a particular prisoner, this law came to the fringes of social communication for the worst reasons, which were to point the finger at a certain prisoner and say «this law is in force and it has been released». That, from our point of view, is unacceptable. No one can be benefited or harmed. Prisoners should be treated with absolute equality. But what did the government say? Oh, my God! He came to say: "Well, there are laws of the PSD and the CDS : approve us! » This means one of two things: either the government doesn't want to know about it for anything, or then it agrees with the PSD and CDS projects. In other words, the Government completely refrains from giving us its opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u50	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u51	It was our fault before!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u52	Does the Government consider that they have already ceased the reasons that have justified Law No 9 / 2020? Oh, my God! The silence of the Government in this matter is lead. We risk creating a situation that has already been verified, precisely: we will put an end to the regime that has to do with the release of prisoners and we will keep in force the exceptional measures that continue to make life more difficult for prisoners and their families in the prison system.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u53	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u54	That's not acceptable. Having passed this law, the Government, since it has seriously failed its duties towards this House and towards the country, must at least fulfil its duty in the management plan of the prison system, which strictly respects it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u56	It is therefore necessary to claim with all fairness that the current functioning of the prison system should be reviewed so that prisoners are not deprived of their rights as prisoners, since the pandemic situation is no longer as serious as it has been, while a law allowing their release because of this pandemic is being repealed. That is, for some things there is a pandemic; for others there is no pandemic. That's not acceptable. It would have done the government, if it had fulfilled its obligation and proposed to this House the end of this transitional regime, as was its duty, or if it had, at least, pronounced, at a time when we are discussing this matter, on whether the reasons for exceptionality and transitory have ceased or not. in this case, the silence of the government is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u58	We will generally vote in favour of the PSD and CDS bills on this matter, and we hope that we will not have to take any other measures of this kind in the future if the situation gets worse. Let's hope not. These are the sincere vows we make. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u59	You have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS-PP has decided to bring the debate a diploma which aims to repeal Law No 9 / 2020, better known as « the law of pardon of penalties ». The truth is that this law allowed, at a very critical stage of the pandemic, to resolve with responsibility, I repeat, with responsibility, a real public health problem and a humanitarian problem, thus responding to many appeals from unsuspecting international and national bodies, such as the Catholic Church. I would even like to recall the decisive role of Mr Clement who has made us all aware of the need for this law, to save lives, in essence, the lives of prisoners, who are human beings, as we are all. In view of its objectives, I think we can safely affirm that this law was a success. It prevented a humanitarian tragedy in our prison establishments, because at the time, we know that, with its characteristics, if the COVID-19 entered prison, it would involve a humanitarian tragedy. It has achieved this goal, not only in a humanist way, but also in a responsible way. It has never undermined the safety of citizens, social peace and respect for victims. It was this responsible way that the PSD proposals were unable to ensure. On the one hand, they allowed an pardon, i.e. a pardon of penalty, absolutely indiscriminate in favor of age, regardless of the type of crime that the person had committed. Just being over 60 or 65 years old, I could have committed a heinous crime...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u61	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u62	...and still, she was forgiven.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u63	This is a lack of seriousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u64	And something else! It was absolutely irresponsible, or unrealistic, if we wanted to,... [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] ... because he put a number of people in house arrest, with an electronic bracelet in April 2020 when the distribution chains were interrupted and there was not even where to buy those electronic bracelets. So this was, at the time, the solution that seemed to us to be more balanced.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u65	What now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u66	It did not allow 3000 prisoners to be released, as they say, but about 2100 prisoners, who have in fact benefited from a penalty or, rather, forgiveness for the rest of the penalty. It did not cover people who had been convicted of heinous crimes, such as murder, pedophilia, domestic violence and others, but above all those who were serving punishment for gang-related crimes, for heritage crimes, for road crimes. Many of the people who were serving the penalty were not supposed to be imprisoned, they were serving the penalty because they simply had no money to pay the fines they were sentenced to. So these people were released. On the other hand, the extraordinary exit licence was subject to very tight and cumulative requirements: the persons concerned could not question either the interests of the victims or social peace, and this licence had to be preceded by a court exit. Therefore, most of the people who have benefited from this special leave scheme have already returned to the prison system. There were some who did not return, because they simply extinguished the sentence or because they met the conditions for parole, i.e. they would have been released with or without this law. It was a law that allowed the necessary balance not only between the values of the protection of the health and life of any person, inherent to the dignity of the human person, but also the security that is due to all.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u67	What now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u68	We know that the repeal of this law is not consensual in society. There are even very voiced voices, such as that of the Vicentina Work of Aid to Prisoners, which has even received the Human Rights Prize in this House, which defend the continuity of this law. It is also true that Portugal remains sadly at the top of the countries of the European Union which most resort to deprivation of liberty or where the duration of deprivation of liberty is greater. This is, in fact, a problem on which we should reflect and which should make us reflect. But this is not the place and we all know that we are at a stage of the pandemic where about 92 % of the prison population is vaccinated, which greatly reduces the risk of the disease. at this moment, I would just like to highlight something and what I'm going to do I never thought I would. I would like to thank the CDS-PP and also Mr Telmo Correia for the high and serious way in which this topic brought the debate... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and which contrasts not only with PSD interventions, but also with the PSD proposal itself. On the one hand, he did not take advantage of his exposition of motives to make a cheap policy and, even humbly, recognizes that this law has fulfilled its purpose well. On the other hand, it proposes, which the PSD does not do, a very thoughtful solution for the cessation of the validity of this law. It safeguards, above all, the pending proceedings in the criminal courts in the name of an elemental respect for the protection of the legitimate trust of the parties concerned. Therefore, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the bill that the CDS presented to this House. [[Congratulations from the PS and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u69	Mrs Deputy, the Bureau records two entries for requests for clarification, one from Mr Cancela Moura, the PSD, and one from Mr Telmo Correia, the CDS-PP. To make the first request for clarification, Mr Cancela Moura has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, first of all, wanted to try to restore the truth. The honourable Member has said something that is not at least true. The proposal to amend the PSD except for the crimes of murder, against the freedom of sexual self-determination, domestic violence and those involving residence. So what I said is neither serious nor responsible, on the part of a party like the Socialist Party. I want to tell you something else: in this case, in particular, you spoke of a tragedy and I thought you were talking about World War II!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u71	of the Holocaust!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u72	I would like to remind you that, at the time that they presented the law, there was not a single infection in the Portuguese chains and the risk was to put them out there, it was exposed them to the risk of the pandemic. [[PS protests.]] Look, the law itself instituted a rule that put the fight against the pandemic exactly the opposite, and later, as we all tried, it was perverse and benefited those who should not. The law even had a preciousness, which was, and I quote, "to safeguard the life and physical integrity of prisoners by the special vulnerability of their health state", but obscured the real reason of the government which was, as we have already said, to relieve the pressure of overcrowding of prisons, which the Minister never wanted to recognise — which is now proven — and which, later, has literally reduced in what is called the benefit of the offender. Because of the strange coincidence, the diploma ended up benefiting the prisoner Vara, who was released before time without justifying it. on the contrary, traffic in influence has nothing to do with public health or humanitarian measures. The release of prisoner Vara is a risk to the country's economic security. [[The PSD Member Carlos Peixoto's laughs.]] The contradiction is so great that on the day it was returned to freedom by a privilege that it would never have in a normal setting, the prisoner Vara still had the disembarkation to do little of us all and, with all disfavor, said: « I have been serving a sentence of two years and nine months for crimes I have never committed». This is well aware that he was convicted in the first instance, who appealed and exhausted all appeals. The PSD well appealed to the balance and proportionality of the measure and implemented it, with a different philosophy, in a proposal to amend the law presented by the Government. The PSD well advised that the pandemic could not serve to forgive sentences and release prisoners, without a rule. Therefore, instead of being released, the PSD proposed house arrest for inmates over 60 years of age and also for those who joined the risk groups. But this House ignored the initiative and rejected the solution which, after all, indicated the real problem. Two months after the last state of emergency was decreed, when it was already vaccinated more than 90 % of the prison population, we all found that the 1200 prisoners had been released, not the 1200 prisoners that the Minister had previously announced in the Council of Ministers, nor the 1700 who announced here, but 2850 prisoners — we know today are more than 3000 — on account of this special regime. A party! I would even say that this party is only parallel to that of the Socrates Government School Park! It is therefore concluded that there was an exception without cause, which is in force a diploma repealed by the facts themselves, which continues to be released as if we were in the most critical period of the pandemic. Grave, because after the peak of the disease in the prison system, between March and June last, and when the generality of the prisoners was inoculated, 119 prisoners were released, on average one per day. More serious, because of the inmates who benefited from the pardon, 235, that is 12% of them, committed new crimes and returned to jails. We know today that the subsequent recurrences are already 635 and that that percentage has grown exponentially. And we also know that, out of irony of fate—see well! — the prisoner Vara may even include the numbers of this statistics.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u73	Mr, you have already exceeded your time, but as you are discounting in PSD time, you can waste that time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. The state of emergency ended on 30 April, the vaccination of the prison population ended on 30 June, the general defination was decreed on 1 October. Therefore, the Government's fear of keeping this special regime in force is a decision without feet or heads. However, without a single case of infection, without transmission chains and practically full vaccination in prisons, the Minister said here, in the seat of a regiment hearing, convincing her and trying to convince us that "the Government's understanding is that the time" — read to put an end to the law — "has not yet arrived. Do not keep on seeking. ” As usual, when confronted with the truth, the government always exercises the authority of the one who commands, rather than the humility of the one who serves. Four months later, the release of prisoner Vara led Mrs. Minister, unfortunately, to return to behavior. in a convenient speech, instead of assuming his share of responsibility, he preferred to wash his hands like Pilate, in a pass-back speech in which he said—without laughing, which is a feat! — that the decision was in the hands of Parliament. This lack of intellectual honesty was so obvious that it was precisely the PS and the Member who drafted the report of the PSD and CDS initiatives that it was in the opinion of the 1st. the Commission stated, spontaneously and naturally, that "the government will be better able to assess the relevance of the political decisions implied in the application of measures to combat the pandemic. Do not keep on seeking. ” In conclusion, it was a diploma of an extraordinary and temporary nature, but the government has truly transformed it into a rule without measure, without principle or end.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u75	Mr. Deputies, you really have to finish now, please. He has already exceeded all the time he had, including that of his own party. This is a request for clarification, please finish quickly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u76	What does the Socialist Party offer to say about this? Are you or are you not in line with this understanding?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u77	Mr. Deputies, you've got to finish, that's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u78	The Government has not so far wanted to put an end to this contradiction, so we believe that Parliament's time is now coming to put an end to this measure without rule or fairness. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u79	To make a request for clarification, Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u80	Mr President, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, first of all, I wanted to ask not a direct question, but a comment. The honourable Member says, and I understand that, from his point of view, this law has solved problems, it has solved a humanitarian tragedy. After all, the humanitarian tragedy has never been on the verge of happening, until at the time of the adoption of the law there were no even relevant cases, or cases, in prisons. But it's okay. What I think the honourable Member can no longer say is that another solution, as we stand for, would not have given an answer, because that, indeed, we do not know. Mrs. Deputy doesn't know, and I don't know. We do not know whether an effective solution implemented within the prison system would also have yielded no results. And it cannot, of course — that would be offensive to us, but it is certainly not their intention — to admit that we would not be concerned about the health of citizens who, being imprisoned, have to have the same right to health and treatment as all others who are not arrested, as is evident. So we don't know that. Secondly, I would like to point out that this law has in some way been kept in force a little bit at a time — the expression — because, in fact, it depended on the original decree, which provided for a legislative provision that determined its end. What is certain is that the original decree has been revoked without me being aware, I confess to you, as a parliament, that in this revocation we kept the exceptional regime in force, not setting a date. It is true, Mrs Deputies — and this is a question that has been raised by several speeches, still now by the CFP bench — that the Government could have acted on this matter and not acted. In other words, the Government realized that this matter had remained in force beyond what the law itself defined, which was temporality and exceptionality, and did not act to revoke it. I ask you, Madam Member, whether or not you think the government could have done so. Finally, Mrs Deputies, I would like to thank you very sincerely for your words for a very simple reason, and I am being absolutely sincere. We have often opposed ourselves, but I would like to leave a record here: the CDS Parliamentary Group — not just me — has always acted here for convictions, values, in front of the front, but we have always tried to do so with elevation and democratic respect for our opponents. It is important for me that this record should remain, perhaps even more important than anyone else, and so I thank you sincerely and from the heart for your words. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u81	In reply, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u82	Mr President, with regard to Mr Cancela Moura's intervention, I confess that at some point I was lost. however, there was one thing that I was convinced and understood. I realized that there's a hit on the PSD or that there's a PSD that identifies with the hit! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr President, I would very much like to thank you for the way in which this House has clarified, all these Members and the Portuguese on this new identity of the PSD. Mr Telmo Correia, when he told you that you had this debate with an elevation, he said it in a very sincere way, because he did so with this elevation and, above all, because he did not seek to ride politically, in a low way, if we want, a matter that is serious. In reply to your question now, the fact is that, in an initial version of this law, it would be the government that would cease its operation by means of a decree of law, but this House understood at some point that it should be the Assembly of the Republic to revoke it. Could the Government have put forward a bill to cease its operation? I could, but the fact is that only in October this year, 92 % of vaccination was reached in the prison population, which I think is a fairly high rate and gives some security, because we know that we cannot predict the future. However, it is also true that the PSD has already presented a legislative initiative here for a long time, I think it even handed it over before the CDS, but never scheduled it. We couldn't schedule it, only the proposer can do it. That is why, once again, Mr Telmo Correia, I thank you not only for raising this debate, but also for having scheduled this bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u83	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When unemployment falls on so many families, when prices do not stop increasing, when there are people who will not be able to warm up their homes this winter, when the National Health Service needs so much attention, when world leaders meet in Glasgow because of the risks to humanity that arise from climate change, when there are students who cannot afford to pay the premises, when housing costs do not stop running, when so many central problems for the lives of Portuguese citizens are demanding immediate answers, the CDS decides to bring to debate the issues of the functioning of the prison system. But what? Oh, my God! Is the CDS concerned about the precarious conditions of thousands of inmates? Does the debate bring the working conditions of the prison guards? Are you discussing measures for the reintegration of all those who have the unhappiness of ending up in prison? No, no, no. The CDS, to which they joined—in a right-wing struggle — PSD and Arrival, decided to choose as the main priority the repeal of an exceptional law aimed at safeguarding, within a given period, public health aspects within prisons. It may have happened that the law has sometimes been used to release in advance who should be serving punishment for a while longer, but the confusion within the forces that want to bring us back to the time of the past is so much that they help themselves from everything. Do we want to talk about problems in the prison system? Oh, my God! So let us talk about the lack of prison guards and the need to improve their living and working conditions, particularly by valuing their careers and wages. That's it, right doesn't want to be the reason he's messing with the deficit. We are talking about the need to carry out substantive work in many of the prison facilities in order to give dignity to all those who remain there, or even to build new spaces. However, for these benches, this is irrelevant. We speak of the lack of psychologists and social reintegration technicians to respond to the demands of the present times. That's it, and I can't even hear you talk! When some tell us that the danger of the epidemic has not yet passed, when one of these days we will still hear the repetition of the speech to cancel everything, come the PSD, the CDS and the Arrival concerned to revoke a measure that, in addition to public health reasons, also had humanitarian intentions. by the side of The Greens, we know that every person who is trapped is too much. We know that it needs support, that it can be recovered, that it deserves to be treated as the human being that it is. As we said at the time of its debate, the law in force sought to materialize, legally, the recommendations made by the United Nations and also the recommendation issued by the Ombudsman in the context of the fight against COVID. The United Nations, it is recalled, advised the Member States to take urgent measures as a way to prevent the devastation in prisons, even suggesting to States the weighting of measures to release particularly vulnerable prisoners from VOCID, especially the elderly, patients and low-risk offenders. The problem we live in and the characteristics of the prison environment, both because of the prevalence of health problems and because of the ageing of the prison population, have led us to a situation in which, in fact, action was required to ensure the emergence of outbreaks of infection in prisons and, at the same time, if we were to avoid or at least reduce the risk of their spread. And these were prison sentences that were not more than two years old, or, in the case of penalties applied of longer duration, if the remaining time for the execution of the sentence was equal to or less than two years. They excluded themselves from forgiveness, as was well explained at the time, the penalties applied for crimes for which there were requirements for the prevention and stabilization of Community security feelings. In addition, an exceptional penalty pardon regime was also approved, provided that prisoners were 65 years of age or older and the pathologies that were carriers or their autonomy were incompatible with the prison stay in the framework of the pandemic we live in. The right has not agreed and has never complied. That is why, today—I repeat, with so many problems in the country! — you only remembered this subject to spend the last cartridges.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u85	Mr Cloádia Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This power schedule of the CDS allows us to look more slowly at the prison we have, and that deserves our recognition. contrary to what has already been said, especially on the right, we believe that, in order to understand Law No. 9 / 2020 and the end of its validity, what we should reflect on goes a little beyond that law. When the prison sentence arose as the primary penalty, it was presented as an advance of civilization, a penalty that would be equal for all and that would replace the infamous corporal punishments of the Old Regime. However, the hopes placed in prison have proved largely unfounded and today those who study it in the outside world wonder what meaning they will make, in the third millennium, the great Panotic prisons of the 19th century, with hundreds of men imprisoned in cells scattered by wings guarded from a central tower. With technological innovation, electronic surveillance, chips, satellites, there are many who question the need for a prison system that maintains nine-centist and, from outside the world, new alternatives to different prisons or prisons are emerging and who want to be less and less like prisons: much smaller, sometimes mixed, with therapeutic solutions, more consensual, more open to society. Unfortunately, that is not our subject yet, but we hope that one day it will be.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u87	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u88	The issue today is that of the prison we have and the function that the law in Portugal has chosen to assign to it, and the Portuguese legislature has chosen to be very clear, absolutely clear. Article 40. the Penal Code expressly states that the penalties aim to protect legal property and to reintegrate the agent into society, without referring to punishment, expiation of guilt or suffering inflicted by the State as compensation for the evil of the crime. It's not like that everywhere, of course. When we look around, we can identify two great models of prison: the prison whose main purpose is the infliction of suffering, on the one hand,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u89	That was in the 18th century! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u90	...and the prison that aims to be resocializing, on the other hand. The option has less to do with the money each country can spend and has much more to do with the political-criminal option. What does prison serve, after all? One possible answer is to say that prison serves to punish and that the best punishment is what implies the most suffering. Some States of the United States are good examples of this concept, with prisons that are boot camps, with unnecessary humiliations, all under the motto « make prisoners smell like prisoners». They have far-reaching penalties for minor crimes, the third conviction to determine life imprisonment, prison as a business, the over-charging of African-Americans and Latinos, especially poor, and the largest ever explosion in the number of prisoners, which has passed from about 400,000 prisoners in the 1980s to 2 million prisoners today. in the opposite pole, we can look at Norway, which on 22 July 2011 witnessed the most horrendous crime committed by one person I have memory of. Anders Breivik killed 77 people and most of their victims were teenagers who were in a camp organized by the Labour Party on the island of Utoya. Breivik, an extreme-right activist who had been a militant of the Progress Party, a nationalist and populist party of extreme-right, devoted himself to shooting, as if they were rabbits, teenagers who could not escape the island. The father of one of the dead teenagers was interviewed by Michael Moore in the documentary Where you Invade Next. He was asked if he would like to kill Breivik, personally, to what he replied that he did not, because he does not have that right. The son called him when the shooting started and he told him to hide, but Breivik killed him, about half an hour after the call. in this interview, the young man’s father said that what he wanted was to have remembered telling his son to swim. Breivik was sentenced to a prison sentence, began to fulfill it, and a few years later, the University of Oslo accepted its registration in a course of Political Sciences. Our option, the Portuguese option, is, fortunately, much closer to Norwegian than to American. The figures confirm the difference in choices and, more importantly, the difference in the consequences of these choices from the point of view of social peace. Let's start with the number of prisoners: for 100 000 inhabitants, the United States has 629 prisoners, Norway has only 56 and we have 113. The United States, which has much more prisoners, also has much more violent crime. The average homicide rate in OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) is 3, 7 per 100,000 inhabitants, while in the United States it is 5, 5, Norway is 0, 4 and Portugal is 1. 0. If we replicate this analysis by other countries in the world, we confirm the tendency that the systems that arrest the most are not the ones that contribute best so that there is less crime. The countries with fewer prisoners and less crime are those where there is more social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we look carefully, we will conclude that the most severe penalties are the grip of weaker States. It was not by chance that the Taliban filled stadiums in Afghanistan to torture, amputate or kill. It was not by chance that the self-proclaimed Islamic State became known for the beheadings with spectators. Weak States need a display of power through criminal justice. The strongest states, because they are social states, do not need to legitimize themselves through prison sentences, which legitimates them is public school, public health. But what does this have to do with the law whose validity we discuss? Oh, my God! Everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u91	And even if I didn't...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u92	in criminology and criminal policy there are options with ideology that separate the waters. The right — all of it! — did not vote against this law by chance. The right never wanted this law because it is not consistent with its idea of punishment. On the contrary, we believe that a penalty only makes sense if it is necessary and the flexibleization of the prison sentence in the context of COVID has shown that the very wide majority of people who were in the final phase of the sentence and who were released no longer posed any danger to society. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u93	It was therefore a law based on reasons of humanity, socially useful, based on the idea that it is not for the State to inflict disproportionate and unnecessary suffering.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u94	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u95	Nils Christie, a Norwegian criminologist, wrote the following about the imperative of States to evolve in the containment of the suffering they inflict through punishment: «It is not worth cutting fingers as a form of punishment, no longer. We found in Norway that it was acceptable until 1815 when it was removed from the Criminal Code. It doesn't seem right to me either that we have 2800 people trapped in Norway. We are free to decide what is the level of suffering we find acceptable." It is up to the legislator, at every moment, to make this choice and throughout our history, the responses given to crime have been changing and evolved in the sense of humanization. That is the way we should continue to travel, even when the COVID-19 pandemic is finally over. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u96	Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u97	Mr President, I must confess that at the moment I am in a dilemma, because I like to have discussions in the eye, as they should be done, but the honourable Member, on whose proposal I am speaking, is not, as is usual, present in the plenary. However, I am going to make my speech. I am not going to see this on television and decide to show up. Of course, there are two proposals in this long debate that aim to repeal this law, but there is another proposal. The proposal of the Arrival is not solely about the repeal of the law. If so, our position would be very similar to that of the other proposals. However, the Commission also intends to draw up and disseminate a report of public access for each prison institution, in which, in detail, the number of prisoners released, the type of crimes committed for which they were serving punishment and the extent of them. The NAP has nothing to oppose with regard to the disclosure of the number of liberations and the type of crimes committed at national level, but it becomes obvious that, when the NAP intends to do so in detail and by each prison establishment, and when it is known that it is not possible to safeguard the anonymity of people, the aim is to present a list of hidden persons, clearly promoting discrimination and the attack on fundamental rights. For the NAP, the difference between voting on initiatives here under discussion is the clear violation of human rights. Once again, the arrival brings us a proposal with a misleading title, which seems to want to achieve one thing, but at the same time aims to address the rights and freedoms of people, so that we can finally shake the flag on social networks, because it knows that the democratic majority in this Parliament will lead to a persecution proposal. This logic of instrumentalizing the office for which we have been elected and of this Parliament, to make dangerous policies and against human rights, is something for which they will not count on the NAP. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u98	I call on the services to link the quorum verification system so that Members can register. In the meantime, Mrs Isabel Rodrigues of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, it is so important that the issues of reintegration, the prison system and human rights were the subject of its proposal which was set up in this Parliament within the framework of 1. the Commission, a subcommittee dedicated precisely to reintegration and prison affairs. Despite the great constraints imposed by the pandemic, which mainly affected the component of visits to the business plan, the sub-committee developed a vast work and had the opportunity to hear many speakers, either on the side of the prison system or on the side of associations that provide invaluable support to prisoners and their families. On behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, today I would like to send a fraternal greeting to all associations and underline the deep recognition for their work. We extend this greeting to all reintegration workers and prison services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The law we are discussing today was adopted in this House on a proposal from the Government, in response to the recommendations of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Ombudsman, to cite only two examples. These recommendations pointed specifically to the reduction of the prison population as a measure necessary to reduce the risk of infection in the prison environment. Mr. Carlos Peixoto said that when you passed this law, the House put the judicial system in the pocket. However, at the time of its adoption, the media also took into account the presentation by judges of the criminal courts of proposals to the same effect, in particular for cases of subsidiary detention and for certain crimes, in the case of prisoners in custody. Those who voted in favour of the bill in this House did so in the name of solidarity that is due to all citizens and that cannot exclude anyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The decision of this House proved right and nothing that was announced by the opponents has come true. Moreover, as the Vicentina Work of Aid to Prisoners, distinguished by this Assembly, in 2018, with the Human Rights Prize, the validity of this law in nothing changed Portugal's position as regards the size of the prison population and the size of the penalties, adding that most of the inmates covered resumed their normal life in society. If it is true that, at the time of the entry of the draft laws of the CDS and PSD and the preparation of the opinions of the Superior Council of the Magistrate and the Superior Council of the Public Ministry in July of this year, we found ourselves at a very favorable time with regard to the evolution of the pandemic situation, yet at that time there were reasons for concern and uncertainty about the future, especially due to already in circulation variants, the emergence of new variants and the duration of the vaccine response. These concerns have unfortunately been well founded. The pandemic is not over yet, we are at a time of increase and we have already moved to the third dose of the vaccine for the most vulnerable citizens. Mr. Carlos Peixoto recently did not answer a question asked by Mrs. Bebiana Cunha of the NAP. It was announced by the President of the Republic that the dissolution of this House, which will soon be prevented from taking measures of the same nature — that is what the honourable Member should have replied. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As I said, we have done, in the sub-committee, a thorough work of hearings, both of system speakers and of associations supporting prisoners and their families. Through one and another we were able to better understand the problems and challenges that the system faces and the huge impact that the pandemic has had on the various dimensions of reintegration and prison services. And, yes, sir, we avoid a tragedy! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u100	That's good! Just bullets!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u101	We were able to consolidate our conviction that Portugal has imprisonment rates and imprisonment times that must call our reflection...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u102	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u103	... around its causes and in the search for solutions that allow the system to introduce the change that desires those who do not follow a punitive and remunerative view of penalties; the change that desires those who reveal themselves for the purposes enshrined in our criminal law and that cannot go beyond the protection of the legal goods and the resocialization of the agent; the change that they want and assume that they want the reduction of the prison population in Portugal. Members of Parliament and Members who constitute the next Assembly of the Republic will be able to address this problem on behalf of the human rights that are recognised to all without exception. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u104	To close the debate, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u105	Mr President, being a positive agenda of the CDS and taking advantage of the right to close the debate, I would like to make a small reflection and draw one or another conclusion on it. There was a concern that went through several benches and was also mentioned in this last speech by recalling a question from Mrs Bebiana Cunha, to which I believe Mr André Coelho Lima answered. If you have not answered, I will try to clarify our position, which is no different from Mr André Coelho Lima's position, so I understand what has been said. This is the question about a fifth wave of the pandemic, but the answer is obvious, Mrs Deputies, because if we have a fifth wave, the problem is not in prison, it is in the whole country!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u106	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u107	That is very obvious and very obvious! We will probably not have a fifth strike similar to the ones we had before, by the rate of vaccination and even because the admissions are less, because the situation is more controlled and we will be more prepared—at least I hope, while I am hitting the wood that I have available here. But if we have a fifth vacancy, we're going to have to move into confinement, we're going to have to have solutions for schools, we're going to have to have distance teaching. So the problem will not be only in prisons and we will have to take action again for society as a whole. That is the answer, of course, because we cannot have an exception, when we may have to adopt measures for the whole of society, at least those which are possible in the context of the Standing Committee — there are several possible things, because at the time we are studying at the beginning of the pandemic, what can or cannot be done by a Standing Committee — and then with the new Parliament. This is the obvious answer. Another concern that has gone a long way around here, to which the honourable Member and several Members. Members have made reference, it is the question of the nature of penalties. We understand it in this matter: for us, the penalties today have essentially an objective and an effect of resocialization. This effect, moreover, corresponds to a humanism we share. I think there is a broad humanist consensus in this House, from this point of view, with differences, but we will already go there. The good criminalists and the good historians of criminal law explain to us that, in the beginning, they only arrest people so that they could apply other punishments to them. The medieval concept was that! In other words, people are arrested so that they can do other kinds of evils or aggressions. That is still the case in other countries — the honourable Member spoke to the Taliban — who still live in this medieval concept, so to speak. However, today, this is not the case. Today, people are detained with the aim, of course, of repairing the damages that have caused society or other people and, at the same time, of being able to be resocialized. That is, of course, our concept and that is where we are. Something else is the fact that we know whether an exceptional and temporary measure should be applied in addition to the reasons that determined its exception and its duration. That does not mean, Mrs Deputies, that there are no differences between the left and the right in this matter. They exist and are not worth hiding them or hiding them. The difference between the left and the right, in this matter, and what leads to the left is, in my opinion, more permissive or more laxist, and the most demanding or stricter right in the fulfilment of sentences is, in essence, the ideological or philosophical concept that is in the nature of political concepts and political dialectics. That is, we have a right, at least the one in which I am born, whose idea, without punitive recrimination, is that an individual, whoever he is, is responsible for his actions and can and should be held accountable for his actions. It is the individual who commits crimes that is responsible for his actions — the blame is not for society, it is not for the world, it is not for the collectiveity in its whole, it is for that individual in particular. This leads, then, to the difference in philosophy in which some are more restrictive, others are more demanding and others, on the contrary, are, in my opinion, more permissive. But this is an acquired fact and does not, in my opinion, break the basic humanist consensus on this matter. On the other hand, on the subject of the debate, I would like to say the following: I understand the arguments that this measure may have had some use, even though they have to accept my reference that it has indeed served to solve a government problem, namely overcrowding chains. Mr José Manuel Pureza said some things I agree with, although we do not normally have the same opinion on these matters. But, Mr President, I also want to tell you that what we all have to defend, in my opinion, is the idea that justice must be equal and blind, as is its representation on whoever it is. To say that this measure releases the worst criminals, exaggerates and uses a tabloid logic is unacceptable, but to make the speech that Mr. Deputies makes, saying that some will never have justice, that some will always be above justice, that justice never reaches the powerful ones and that it is only directed to one side, is another form of populism, possibly of the opposite sign, but obviously populist, Mr. Finally, I would like to say that this is not a debate about the prison system, about the conditions of the prison system, about what could and should have been done and was not. It is logical, of course, that Mr Deputies — and several groups have spoken of this — will not win a lot of votes to build chains, I say. Perhaps, therefore, it has not been a priority of democracy for many years. It's not a priority! But if this investment is not made, then the people who are arrested and who are entitled, by citizens who are, under dignified living conditions, end up not having that dignity. On the other hand, we know what happened, already with this government, in the prisons here a few years ago, with protests from the prisoners, with strikes, with riots inside the prisons, because the conditions were not guaranteed. And we all have known, for many years, the complaints of the prison guards, of those who have this function that must be very hard to perform.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u108	And the employees!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u109	And the officials, of course, Mr. Deputies. The complaints they have, moreover, have been made very clearly in the report by the Ombudsman recently presented and discussed in this Chamber. All of this is subject to discussion within the State budget, within the framework of the Government Programme, etc. The truth is that who governs—and who governs, I don't have the color number now present in my head, it's in 12 of the last 16 years or something—such as the Socialist Party, which has been in government for six years, in this legislature, can't come here to say that this is very good. We have to use the pandemic to release people from prison, even if the pandemic is controlled, because it has not been invested in prisons, because there are no prison guards, because there are no means, etc. etc. Those who govern are primarily responsible for the resolution of these things, as is evident, and have not been resolved. As for that, we all agree. Finally, and because several speeches have gone through this point too, I want to tell you this: I am not insensitive to the arguments of humanity and mercy that so many institutions are doing in Portuguese society. I believe that all parliamentary groups receive – we receive – with some regularity several associations, such as Obra Vicentina, who come to say to us: "Be careful, worry about the situation in prisons. Attention! More clemency is needed! ... » We are not insensitive to that. An institution such as Obra Vicentina — which in good time was honoured by this House, as in the past, for example, a man of the Catholic Church, a great defender of political prisoners (I remember having been in this jury), as was Brother Bento Domingues — by his nature, because his experience is within the prisons, with the prisoners, knowing their difficulties, has a function to ask for mercy. It's normal and it's natural that it is. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, for example, the victims, who do not ask for mercy, ask for justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u110	Sure! Don't forget that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u111	He who visits prisoners, who sees his difficulties, who lives and suffers with his bitterness, asks for mercy. It's natural.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u112	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u113	Whoever saw a relative be killed, robbed, raped, whatever it is, asks for justice and asks for hard hands. It's normal and understandable!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u114	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u115	What is the role of the politician? What is the role of the legislator, Mr Deputies? It is to find a fair balance between both things, to do justice and to build trust in society. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] I believe that this bill we present here today is a good contribution to this. And, having seen the consensus generated in this House, I say with satisfaction that the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP will have made a positive contribution. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u116	Mrs. Members, we have thus reached the end of our debate, the first point of which was set by the CDS-PP. Enough minutes have already passed so that the services can be asked to close the quorum check and to present the results in the electronic table. [[Pause.]] We have 206 ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are therefore in a position to initiate the votes. We begin with the general vote on Bill No. 886 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Termination of the exceptional regime for flexible enforcement of penalties and free measures in the context of the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19, as set out in Law No 9 / 2020 of 10 April. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the Members of the PS Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Bruno Aragão, Cláudia Santos, Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Oneto, Isabel Rodrigues, José Magalhães and Sonia Fertuzinhos and abstains from BE, PAN and the Members of PS Fernando Anastácio and Filipe Neto Brandão.]] The initiative we just voted on is low to 1. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No. 885 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Repeal of Law No 9 / 2020 of 10 April on the exceptional regime for flexible enforcement of penalties and free measures under the COVID 19 disease pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 1017 / XIV / 3. a ( CH) — Repeals Law No 9 / 2020 of 10 April, an exceptional regime for flexible enforcement of penalties and measures for free in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, and also creates instruments for protecting public security and stability in the judicial organisation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, votes against the CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected.]] We are thus at the end of our agenda. Mr. João Miguel Nicolau asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u117	Mr President, just to inform me that I cannot register.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u118	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. I now give the floor to Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo, to give us some information.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u119	Mr President, it is only to give the House an account that with regard to Parliamentary appraisal No 51 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), all proposals under consideration were rejected in the specialty, thus expiring the parliamentary assessment procedure under consideration, in accordance with and for the purposes laid down in Article 195 ( 5 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-11.u120	Thank you very much, Secretary Sofia Araújo. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will have plenary session, beginning at 10 a.m., whose fixation was required by the NAP, having as a first point the discussion, in general, of Bills Nos 999 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN) — Recognizes and regulates the figure of the Community animal, reduces the claim period of unidentified animals collected in the CROs, and assigns the State the charge with the sterilization programmes of errant or Community animals, making the first amendment to Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August to the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 276 / 2001 of 17 October 2001 to the second amendment to Decree-Law No 82 / 2019 of 27 June and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 314 / 2003 of 17 December, 1001 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN) — Extends criminal protection to all vertebrate animals by amending the Criminal Code, 514 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Creates a national animal sterilization campaign and 1015 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the Penal Code, extending criminal protection to all vertebrate animals. of the second point is, without time allocated for discussion, the Bill No. 1011 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — Extension for the year 2022 of the exceptional and temporary regime of the exercise of early voting rights for voters who are in compulsory confinement under the COVID-19 pandemic, and voters resident in similar residential structures and structures, making the third amendment to the Organic Law No 3 / 2020 of 11 November. from the third point of view are the voting on the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much to everyone and until tomorrow. [[It was 17 hours and 15 minutes.]]
