ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Let's start our plenary session this afternoon. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I would also like to congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the services supporting the plenary and the ladies and gentlemen. Security officers. Let us then begin this session with political statements, which are from the first point of our agenda today, and there are no warnings to be made to the plenary. The first political statement is for the Left Block Parliamentary Group and for this purpose Mr Fabian Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 1949, the United Nations Security Council recognized Israel as a peace-loving State, which was able to fulfil the obligations set out in the Charter of the United Nations ( United Nations ). Seventy-two years after the adoption of this resolution and at a time when there is more violent aggression by the State of Israel in the Gaza Strip, it is more than enough time for the international community to wonder whether it has been the love of peace and respect for international law to lead the foreign policy of the State of Israel. Above all, it is more than enough time not to be afraid of the answer. Let's start with the questions: Is it the State of Israel charged with war crimes? The answer is: yes! Is the Israeli Army therefore being investigated by the International Criminal Court? The answer is: yes! Is the State of Israel accused of establishing a system of apartheid and systematic persecution of ethnic minorities and the Palestinian people by human rights organizations accredited to the UN and by the European Union itself? The answer is: yes! Is the State of Israel accused of restricting freedom of the press, manipulating the foreign press for military purposes and destroying its offices in the Gaza Strip? The answer is: yes! Is the State of Israel responsible for bombing civilian infrastructure in the Gaza Strip, such as hospitals, water treatment stations, schools or shelters for refugees? The answer is: yes! Is the State of Israel responsible for the installation, maintenance and expansion of illegal settlements in Palestinian territory, condemned by the European Union and the UN? The answer is: yes! Is the State of Israel responsible for the trial in military courts and the mass imprisonment of Palestinian children? The answer is: yes! The exposure of these facts forces us to a consequent judgment: the State of Israel has promoted a continuous policy of maximum political and cultural aggression against Palestine and its people, seeking, by all means, to prevent the creation of a sovereign State of Palestine. For this purpose, he was able to count on the passivity, ambiguity and inaction of the international community over the past few decades. Unfortunately, the Portuguese Government has been no exception. The position expressed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs last week, insisting on a supposed equivalence between Israel and Palestine, contributed to the legitimizing chorus of the escalation of violence against the Gaza Strip and the worsening of the humanitarian crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u4	in a genocide, in ethnic cleansing, in a military occupation, there is no confrontation between equal parties: there is a sophisticated army, on the one hand, and a people who, historically, do not abdicate their right to exist on the other. This is the time to redeem the memory of the occasion when our democracy and the self-determination of various peoples have drifted apart. This is the time to remember a country that rose in its entirety by the self-determination of East Timor and that made it one of the most noble moments of our collective life. These were defining choices we made, then. It is again the courage of a choice that is before us, in view of what is happening in Palestine. This courageous choice is that of the unconditional condemnation of the crimes of the State of Israel against humanity; it is that of concrete solidarity towards the right to self-determination and independence of the people of Palestine. It's time for action! That today, May 20, nine years after Timor-Leste's declaration of independence, be the day when we commit ourselves to an agenda for peace in Palestine. Portugal must unequivocally condemn the aggressions of the State of Israel. The Portuguese Government must finally recognize the existence of Palestine as an independent State by complying with the resolution adopted by the Assembly of the Republic in December 2014. Portugal shall prohibit the importation and marketing of goods, services or natural resources imported from illegal settlements. Portugal must defend the application of international sanctions to the State of Israel until a cease-fire is established. We are a small country in international order, but we are not a country without the ability to influence international order. We have the obligation to inspire other States to have courageous positions in the defence of human rights, in the overthrow of the silence wall covering war crimes against the people of Palestine, whenever the matter comes out of the alignment of the televisions, and to contribute to the failure of the ethnonationalist project of corrupt Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Palestine, one day, will be free. What is to know is whether on that day we, Portugal, will be able to recognize that we have done everything to ensure that this destiny is fulfilled. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u5	Five Members signed up to request clarification from Mr Fabian Figueiredo, who informed the Bureau that he intended to answer three questions first and then the other two. So the first of these requests for clarification lies with Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Fabian Figueiredo, few innocents, throughout history, in this long conflict in the Middle East. In fact, the few innocent are civilians and peaceful families, struck by war actions on both sides. in this sense, we must start by highlighting the atypical character of this conflict, because on the one hand we have a State, the State of Israel, but on the other hand we have Hamas, which is a terrorist organization. In fact, to keep an idea, one of Hamas's financiers is Iran, which also finances Hezbollah in Lebanon. at this time, the population of Gaza is hostage to Hamas, which has taken over the Palestinian cause with a primary purpose, which is to destroy the State of Israel. So let us not be led by illusions, Mr President. The truth is that we have two peoples, both suffering from the same evil, and in this Parliament we must support all the processes of democratic aspiration rather than center the discourse around the defense of terrorist organizations. It is up to the Portuguese Parliament to give the sign of this maturity. With as much noise as the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are contributing more to the non-resolution of the conflict.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u7	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u8	Yes, we must support coexistence alongside two different peoples...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u9	Donald Trump!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u10	...and guarantee both the rights of the Palestinian people and the rights of the Israeli population. Mr President, I therefore ask the following: do you really believe that it is with extreme positions that peace, security and progress are promoted in the Middle East?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u11	It's on the bomb! The bomb is what it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u12	It's because the result is in sight! See the cover of yesterday's Newspaper. [[At this moment, the speaker displayed the cover of the edition of the Newspaper of May 19, 2021.]] « SIS alerts for potential attacks on Jewish interests in Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, I conclude by saying that there are values that should be above any political and party struggle. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u13	The next request for clarification lies with Mr José Luís Ferreira, DOS Verdes. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u14	Mr President, Mr Fabian Figueiredo, I would like to congratulate you on bringing about such a current issue, on which the international community is indeed merely silent. It is silence that is the great cause of what is happening in that region. We agree. In fact, what is happening in Palestine is not a conflict, in which the parties are on the same footing and with the same objectives. Don't! What is happening in Palestine is a real massacre, in which one of the parties literally wants to support itself from the territories and natural resources of the State of Palestine. Therefore, it is not a conflict, it is an ongoing occupation, and for many years!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u16	He just doesn't see who he doesn't want, because, moreover, it's enough to look at the maps of the territories of Israel and Palestine today and compare them with what was defined and approved by the United Nations in 1947 to have the exact dimension of this new way of colonizing territories by Israel. It does so even by violating the most basic rules of international law, completely ignoring all the resolutions of the United Nations on this matter. Moreover, as is public, the United States has been systematically blocking any efforts by the United Nations Security Council to call for a ceasefire. It is no coincidence that Israel is now grateful to the United States for having recently done more to Israel by blocking a resolution of the United Nations Security Council, which was only asking for a solution to the two States, to appeal to respect for international humanitarian law and to express serious concern about the expulsion by the Israeli occupying authorities of Palestinian families from their homes in East Jerusalem. But the United States further blocked this resolution and the result is in sight: bombings hit residential areas, hit civilians, hit children and even reached the main testing and vaccination center against COVID-19, which, moreover, stopped functioning, in addition to other Palestinian hospitals and medical clinics. Mr President, what I would like to ask you is the following: the Greens have already, on several occasions, brought to Parliament initiatives for the Portuguese State to recognize the State of Palestine, which have been rejected. However, as the honourable Member has said from the rostrum, there is a resolution adopted by this Parliament, which recommends that the Portuguese Government recognise the State of Palestine, in coordination with the European Union. I ask you, Mr President, whether you are aware of any efforts by the Portuguese Government, especially now that you are in the presidency of the European Council, to comply with this resolution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u17	You now have the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias, for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fabian Figueiredo, we must reaffirm how many times it is necessary: in Palestine, there is no conflict, there is an occupation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u20	The CFP strongly condemns the Israeli Government's campaign of violence, accompanied by armed Israeli settlers, against the Palestinian population in Jerusalem, with the process of expulsion of Palestinians from their homes in Sheikh Jarrah and the impediment of Palestinian access to the Mosque of Al-Aqsa. The escalation of aggression by the Israeli Government and the Zionist forces aims at annexing East Jerusalem and, ultimately, the whole historical territory of Palestine, in fact denying the Palestinian people their legitimate right to a State, an objective already expressed by Netanyahu and patent in the incessant construction of settlements and the apartheid wall in occupied Palestinian territory, illegal actions under international law. On this, the PSD laughs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u21	No, don't laugh!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u22	What we have seen is that the Israeli Government is committed to sabotaging the solution of the conflict and to impeding the creation of a Palestinian State, based on UN resolutions, adopted many decades ago. There is, however, a warning that can only be made: whoever is complicit in the destruction of this solution will be responsible for the dramatic consequences that will come from there.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u24	Do you not agree, Mr Fabian Figueiredo, that what is required of the Portuguese Government is a clear and powerful position, particularly when he exercises the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in defence of the national rights of the Palestinian people and the fulfilment of the United Nations resolutions that enshrine them? Does he not consider that, at the moment, there is a particular, increased responsibility for the Portuguese Government to leave this position of political hypocrisy and irrelevance at such a serious moment as it is in Palestine? [[Congrats from the PCP, the PEV and Mr. BE Jorge Costa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u25	To answer this first group of questions, Mr Fabian Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u26	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, when I heard her speak, I remembered when they called Xanana Gusmão « terrorist », when they called Nelson Mandela « terrorist ». But I also remembered the PSD's conviction to try to send Portugal to Iraq's war, because they were firmly convinced that there were massive destruction bombs there! [[PSD protests.]] It is good to remember the heritage of the PSD, because the heritage of the PSD in the Middle East is a collision and attack on the resolutions of the United Nations and disobedience to the efforts, the appeals of the UN Secretary-General, António Guterres.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u27	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u28	That's what we remember. There is nothing atypical in that conflict. Unfortunately, it's pretty classic. It is a colonial conflict: there is a territory that grows and there is a territory that decreases; there is a people that disappears, which increases the number of refugees in millions, and there is another people colonizing territories in another State. We've seen that too many times in history. None of this is atypical, and there is only one side to be: it is the side of peace, of international law, or the side of complacency with Benjamin Netanyahu. Palestine is not only the Gaza Strip, it is East Jerusalem, it is certainly the West Bank. It is easy to want to transform this debate with the argument that you are on the Hamas side — which is certainly not the side of the Left Block. But I can't help but notice that the PSD, in this Chamber, makes echo camera of Benjamin Netanyahu's lies, and that can't be bleached. [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u29	No, don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u30	Mrs. Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecological Party, and Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP, undoubtedly the Portuguese Government was expected and required more, particularly at the time when the Presidency of the Council of the European Union took office. This is the time for the firm agenda for peace, to recognize the right to self-determination of the people of Palestine and the establishment of a sovereign state. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u31	We moved on to the second group of three requests for clarification, the first of which is for Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Fabian Figueiredo, on behalf of the NAP, thank you for making this political statement. It is essential that the Assembly of the Republic discuss this subject in depth. I would like to point out that the report of the Human Rights Observatory is clear on what is happening in Israel, particularly on systematic abuses of the rights of the Palestinian people. Obviously, we cannot talk about a conflict because, when we talk about Hamas provocations, which have a completely disproportionate response from Israel, it is almost as if we were talking about attacking an ant with a cannon. On the other hand, after Benjamin Netanyahu's statements yesterday — which basically said publicly that he had only two options, and I quote: "or we shall conquer them by force or deter them by force" — it seems to us that the "way of force" is undeniable, since it is present in both situations. So we would like to ask two questions. First, it is considered that Mr Foreign Minister's statements on this matter represent our country well. Secondly, given that Portugal has a privileged position within the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and that the NAP has argued that a firm position should be maintained with a view to the European Union's demand for and due diligence in the direction of the restoration of peace, we would like to know whether it considers that the Portuguese Government has played its role in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u33	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I could ask you a number of questions, but I guess the answer. Perhaps some of these questions had to do with the Left Block more than with the CFP, which is usually very affirmative, wherever it is anywhere in the world in terms of regimes, totalitarianism and democracy. But perhaps I could ask you, although you guessed the answer, if you realized, in this conflict between Israel and Hamas, where is democracy and where is totalitarianism and whether the Left Block somehow identifies itself with the values that Hamas represents, with the values related to human rights, with the values related to women's rights, with violence, etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u35	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u36	That is important to know, because values are also involved here. Sir, I have no problem. Between a democratic government and a prime minister, with whom I identify or not, a democratic country or Sheikh Mohammed Deif, you are the spokespersons of Sheikh Mohammed Deif. That's your problem! [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] I ask you, it is a direct question, Mr President — the first rhetorical era, but this is direct, because this absolutely fanatical speech against Israel does not help peace at all. Nothing! — whether or not you are available to condemn Hamas attacks. I ask you if a state, whatever it is, that one moment for the other sees its population attacked by thousands of rockets...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u37	That's it! You're making Hamas talk! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u38	A state that may have already committed excesses — that is not what is at stake — that can be condemned, because it can be condemned what has happened within the State of Israel and the excessive use of force by the police can be condemned and condemned... That is one thing. Another thing is thousands of missiles fired at a civilian population. You condemn that, don't you? Oh, my God! It is because you were outraged by the Portuguese government itself to have condemned this attack. This does not contribute to anything, because regardless of which side democracy is on, and which side is not on which side democracy...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u39	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u40	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. Regardless of how we know that they protect their civilians and others use their civilians as human shields,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u41	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u42	... irrespective of everything, there is one essential thing, Mr, that is to know how it contributes to peace. I tell you to be an ally of Hamas, to be an ally of terrorism, as in this case, in Cape Delgado...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u43	Mr. Member, please conclude if you do the favor!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u44	... or elsewhere, it doesn't contribute anything to peace. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u45	To request clarification, Mr. Paulo Pisco of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by complimenting you and thanking the Left Block for bringing this matter. Firstly, I would like to say what Mr Foreign Minister has already said, that Portugal does not change its position regarding the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which condemns the policy of colonization and occupation of the territories and which defends, as he has always defended and will always defend the solution of the two States.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u47	Look!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u48	This is a preliminary point, which is important for all of us to pay attention. It is also necessary to see things not as if history began now, because history has started a long time ago, it has started seven decades ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u49	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u50	Only in this conflict have more than 200 people died, including about six dozen children. There is an immense destruction, including that of a building that housed media bodies. on the Israeli side, 12 people died and there are no signs of such destruction, far from that, as the one that has been in the Gaza Strip. So the first thing to ask is that there is an immediate ceasefire—and that is what I would like the parliamentary groups to do here—and that, in the medium term, Israel will allow conditions for the development of peace and freedom in the occupied territories of the West Bank and also in the open-air prison, which is the Gaza Strip. The conflict between Israel and Palestine is a tragedy that has been repeated seven decades ago,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u51	It's called occupation! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u52	... always with a scandalous disproportion in the number of victims and in the destruction of the Palestinian side. Anyone with a minimum of humanity, the only thing he wants right now is the end of violence and the end of hatred between Israelis and Palestinians. Unfortunately, it is not what happens, it is not what has happened to the Israeli Government, to the Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, or to his followers, who scandalously ignore all international appeals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u53	What about Hamas? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u54	This is a tragic and unhappy story, which never ends again—and this is where we should focus—and that will always cause pain and violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u55	Mr. Paulo Pisco, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u56	The Israeli non-governmental organization Peace Now estimates that there will be more than 200 families in the vicinity of East Jerusalem that can be cleared and about 20,000 Arab houses that can be demolished under Israeli laws. This may imply a continuation of violence. Therefore, what I would like to ask the honourable Member, in this context, is how one can think — as the international community and as the United Nations say — in two states living in peace and security, if hatred is so great and the wounds so deep. Or does that aim not go beyond mere illusion? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u57	And if you're taking care of each other!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u58	To respond to the three requests for clarification, Mr Fabian Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u59	Mr President, the wounds of war heal with the policy of peace. For this, colonizing force must be available to stop colonizing. That's the principle. Mr Telmo Correia, a few years ago Mr. and his party accused those who opposed the Iraq War of pursuing Saddam Hussein's policy. Today, who opposes Netanyahu's belligerent policy makes the same speech, under the Hamas formula. That's the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u61	Condemns Hamas? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u62	The Left Block condemns all manifestations of hatred. The honourable Member cannot give a word — a word whatever! — on the bombing of a building hosting the international press! That's what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u63	But I did! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u64	No, no, sir. What did the State of Israel itself do? The Associated Press — collaborates with Hamas! Al Jazeera — collaborates with Hamas! START in the Gaza Strip — collaborate with Hamas! The schools — collaborate with Hamas! Everything works with Hamas, when it is to dissipate! [[Protests from the CDS-PP and PSD Members.]] The Palestinian children, at hundreds in prison, also collaborate with Hamas! ... Magnificent! Magnificent! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u65	BE works with Hamas!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u66	We don't need human rights, because everything works with Hamas! If we follow this line of reasoning, the United Nations General Assembly condemns Israel's belligerent policy — it is infiltrated by Hamas! The Assembly of the Republic recognises the right to self-determination of peoples — it must also be working with Hamas! ... It is the old policy of not wanting to debate the matter and say that everything is Hamas, as it was a few years ago all Saddam Hussein. Has the Middle East become better, Mr. Member, after your armies have sent you there to make bombings? Oh, my God! That is the question that is at stake. of what the country needs, of what the world needs is a collective commitment from States to have an agenda for peace. For that, you must have the will to shut down the batteries of the war, sir! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u67	We turn to the second political statement this afternoon, which falls to the CFP Parliamentary Group. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As they say, and well, several national sports entities, few will be the sectors with the cross-cutting impact of sport. Sport is a component of democracy. With 25 April, it was recognized and won this fundamental right which has a place in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic as the right of all. « Sport for all », irrespective of their origin, their abilities or interests. Despite its undeniable importance, the deresponsibility of the central State in view of this function has been the policy of successive governments. The State transfers responsibility for promoting, dynamizing, regulating, disciplining sport, transferring public powers, but governments have stolen from the definition of a true sports policy in which sport is assumed as a design.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u70	And that only the government can assume. An example of lack of vision was the merger of the Instituto do Sport de Portugal and the Portuguese Institute of Youth, which has not benefited either sport or youth, and we have only the results that we have at the expense of the enormous abnegation of leaders and athletes. With the COVID-19, everything got worse. The confinement and limitation of activities led to the sudden fall of the clubs' messalitys, the breakdown in the revenues of bars and other non-statutory activities, the interruption of institutional support or sponsorship... The situation has become truly unsustainable for clubs, associations and collectives that, despite their lack of revenue, have continued to have fixed expenses. The CFP understands that what is happening cannot be underestimated. from the past period to 2020 / 2021, the number of athletes enrolled in football, andebol, basketball, skating and volleyball federations rose to almost one third — from 252 704 federal practitioners, to 89 792.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u71	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u72	We have been warning about this since the first hour! Local-based sports associationism could not have waited a year for the government to start talking about the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u73	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u74	The federations, the confederations, the committees warn since March 2020! The PCP proposals, which could have guaranteed budget money for sport and youth, were rejected with the votes of the PS, the PSD and the CDS, which aligned themselves to make measures such as the reduction of VAT (tax on value added) of equipment and sports material to 6 %, the exemption of IRC (tax on income of the public) up to a value of €30 000 or the support fund for sport of €60 million. Resolutions have been adopted here, but only after one year of outbreak in Portugal does the government announce a fund of which only part is lost. However, two months have passed and nothing is known, nothing has come to clubs or federations. It seems that the Government has not heard the alarming description made by dozens of entities in public hearing here in this House. from here to months, a new era begins and no one knows how to organize. It is not clear why in none of the moments of progressive defination priority was given to sports and the return of the public to competitions under adequate sanitary conditions, as was done, and well, for other shows and events. The government says and scorns. There was no lack of proposals or means to respond to the desperate situation of the sector, since from the initiative of the CFP significant measures could have been adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u75	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u76	They were not approved because PS, PSD and CDS converged to prevent it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u77	The CDS voted for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u78	The government has the means to deal with the situation, it lacks will because it gives priority to the deficit and does not realize that, if it does not intervene now, it may not have any more sports fabric to worry about later. This is how, as is the most varied plans in which the Government escapes the concrete response, protects it, impedes it or fails to comply with the measures which are included in the Budget. Words clash with lack of action, in this as in other matters. The Government announces that whether Portugal is in the 15 most active nations in sports practice, but, as we are among the three countries of the European Union with worse results in this area, it is a luxury to let go of defining the association movement that mobilizes people of all ages, by not guaranteeing the necessary support. The Government welcomes Portugal's excellent results in both European and world competitions as well as in Olympic and Paralympic games, but it continues to give no support and risks having no more medals to join the photograph if it breaks in the number of athletes preventing the formation of new athletes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u80	The Government places on the role of expressions such as « smart, sustainable and inclusive growth », « social and territorial cohesion », « health and economic, social and institutional resilience », « policies for the next generation », « children and young people », but the public school continues without the minimum means to fulfil its essential role, which is to form whole citizens, with material and human conditions for the practice of physical education, for serious school sports.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u81	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Sport is health, it is disease prevention and promotion of healthy habits. It's healing too! It's mental health, that's so fragile with the moment we're going through. It's quality of life. It promotes essential social, educational and cultural values, an essential component of growth, the lives of children and young people. It's a factor and an inclusion engine. It is so important that it plays a role in participation in collective life, in promoting acceptance of differences and respect for the rules of common good. Sports is economic, too. It is employed by athletes, technicians, trainers and other directly or indirectly linked workers — over 700 000 Portuguese. I would be-cl- him more and more, not the pandemic. It dynamizes the local economy, actually dynamizes the local life. It contributed to the continuity/territorial cohesion, which is so much talked about, providing well-being. from high-income training, sport moves millions of people. And even if investment should not end up only in major international events, it is true that there is a huge economic dynamisation around the big competitions and few will have the economic impact that sports tourism has on this front. in a policy that really recovers and overcomes the country's structural problems, sport has to be a concrete right, must be a privileged instrument to have a more inclusive, healthier, fairer, more ethical society. A patriotic and left-wing policy is the one that values the practice, competition, association movement, the value created by the sector...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u83	Mrs. Deputy...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u84	I will finish, Mr. President. It is the policy that meets constitutional rights. In the field of sports, it's a lot at stake, ladies and gentlemen. Members: health, education, childhood and growth of new generations, jobs, clubs, their lands, the economy, but, for the CFP, there are definitely issues with which one cannot play. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u85	Mrs. Members of the Bureau shall now record the inclusion, in order to request clarification, of four Members. Members... In addition, the Bureau began registering five Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to draw the attention of the parliamentary groups to the fact that registrations for requests for clarification should be made during the intervention, if not later, it becomes very difficult to manage the situation. [[Pause.]] Mrs Alma Rivera informed the Bureau that she would first respond to three Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, two. You have the floor, then, for the first request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Alma Rivera on bringing this very important issue to our attention. We would like to underline the two dimensions that are present. On the one hand, the closure of the activities of hundreds of sports associations calls into question, in many localities, the structures that guarantee the social, cultural and sporting supply and requires an intervention by the Government to save them, particularly those installed in areas of lower population density, because if they do not resume their normal life, this will in some cases mean the end of the last sports structure to be functioning. On the other hand, it is a matter that relates to hundreds of thousands of young people who from one day to the other have become deprived of activities that represent for many the dream of their lives and which are essential for the quality of life, for the health and occupation of these young people. The lack of physical activities poses problems not only to physical health but also to the mental health and social development of these young people who, day after day, and hastily, some of them cannot pursue sports activities, even in new and more limited circumstances. We have said that it is necessary to resume life in all its dimensions. The information that brings us is worrying. So does it not seem to you, Madam Member, that it is essential for the Government to find fast support mechanisms for the collectives to resume their activities? Do you not believe that a plan will be needed to value physical education in schools, filling up the difficulties arising from the scenario described here?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u87	It is now up to Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Alma Rivera, the subject of the debate is very important; I regret only that you have had a misunderstanding about how the CDS voted in the CFP initiatives, particularly in the State budget, because they are indeed relevant initiatives and that we have not made it impossible. It appears that the government has taken an even more serious stance in relation to sport than in other sectors. There is, at least, no intervention by the government in order to make it appear that it is solving something. We see every day, on the ground, clubs, associations, parents, athletes, completely lost in what is an attempt to return to the activity that is obviously compromised while the government does not support these institutions and also does not allow families and athletes to return normally to sports practice. I give just one example: the functioning of district or regional associations, depending on the sport mode, and the need they have to maintain their activity and organise their competitions. I wonder whether you agree or not that the government should intervene in this matter and not continue to charge registration fees, and others, clubs and athletes, for their impossibility. It is because the Government's total lack of initiative makes it possible for those who want to organize the competitions to compete with, with those who want to do what they naturally have the right to do again, the problem remains there, with clubs thinking that it should be the associations to make registrations flexible, with the associations to think that they cannot make them more flexible, because they cannot work. And the government, shamelessly, is silent, not assuming a responsibility that obviously has to be yours. If the country has stopped and, with this, sport has also stopped, should it not be the government, I ask, to take the initiative to create conditions for everything to return to normal and not to sit down to see, unfortunately, the sad reality of national sport at this time? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u89	The third request for clarification lies with Mr. Miguel Costa Matos of the Socialist Party. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP has brought to this debate the important theme of the resumption of sports activity. We all know the importance of sport for our communities, for personal development, for leisure, for health. That is why we should encourage sports practice and the best way to do it is to ensure that this activity is safe, in this difficult pandemic context. This has been the guiding principle of the government, which has heard the sector and worked with it. Since March 13 we have known the calendar of gradual resumption of sports activity; since March 31 we have ensured the resumption of training steps, only to advance, at this time, the return of the public to the stadiums and the informal practice of collective sports. We know about the impact of the pandemic on the sport movement. In addition, the Socialist Party accompanied the CFP's draft resolutions in this regard and the Government acted by introducing the theme of sport in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), an amount of EUR 10 million, and adopting support measures worth EUR 65 million: EUR 30 million in full, from direct support to clubs; EUR 30 million in credit lines for sports federations; and EUR 5 million in reinforcement of the Programmes for the Rehabilitation of Sports Facilities and the National Sport Programme for All, which thus increased from EUR 3 million in funding to EUR 8 million, which is also largely lost. However, all of this will be detrimental if we in fact call into question health security in sports practice. We have said that we must support and encourage sports practice, but it must be resumed not a day before, not a day after what health experts tell us. This is precisely what we have done: supported and resumed when health experts allow it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u91	Tell that to the associations!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u92	Therefore, honourable Member, what I ask you is whether it was different in the resumption of sports practice, even if this endangers all the collective effort we have made. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u93	Having completed the first group of requests for clarification, you have the floor to answer, Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u94	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Mariana Silva and her colleagues for their questions. Deputies João Almeida and Miguel Costa Matos. I would begin by answering Mr. Miguel Costa Matos' question by saying that sport was the main sector to want everything to work well, with rules and with certainty, but there are things that are, in fact, incomprehensible. How do we lay down rules for other performances, in safety, and can't do it to watch a sports competition? It's unbelievable, nobody gets it. Secondly, of course, we want the sport practice to resume in safety, but in order to resume it safely and to be at the level of the requirements made, for example, with regard to testing, it is necessary that clubs are not in the situation in which they are, that is, they have to pay the massive test, and well, only then they do not have that fund, because the government announced it, but two months later nothing of that fund is known.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u95	No more! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u96	You can talk in 30 million for this, 35 million for that, but how much did you actually get to clubs?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u97	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u98	Zero! Nothing! The clubs are currently in exactly the same situation as they were in March 2020. This is a concrete problem and there is no known effort being made on the ground to know the difficulties, to understand what modalities the clubs have, what immediate needs to overcome, where that fund should be channelled, or whether to help define the criteria for allocation of the fund. So the government, in this matter, has been, and it is very bad. With regard to what Mr. João Almeida said, I would like to remind you that, in fact, we seem to have a joint concern,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u99	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u100	... but there are situations that could be resolved, particularly that of the fund, which could already be approved since January 2021, and it was not, because, if I am not mistaken, the CDS abstained, together with the vote against the PSD and PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u101	Ah! Stay away from me!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u102	in the same way, it could have facilitated the credit of the trainers, but also decided to abstain. So perhaps it wasn't such an important subject. With regard to what Mrs Mariana Silva has said, there is indeed a problem with the design of sports policy. Sport policy goes from childhood, the first moments of life, to active aging. Therefore, conditions must be created, throughout development, to allow such learning, this contact. In fact, we have a very late school sport and then we have no conditions for sports practice. How many schools do they have no flag and whose students have to cross the city to go to another school for Physical Education? How many schools are there in which school sports cannot actually work? Many others, there is no link between schools and clubs. As long as we do not give conditions to public school, whether at the level of curricula, whether at the level of teachers or at the level of material conditions, we cannot overcome this difficulty, and it is very important that we go beyond and achieve that sport is part of the life of each of the children and young people in Portugal. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u103	We're going to move on to the second group of requests for clarification. Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u104	Mr President, I welcome the CFP on the subject which it has brought us and which is, in fact, important. In fact, sport was one of the most forgotten partners by the government throughout this pandemic — it has forgotten!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u106	It probably does not have the political weight it should have within the structure of the government and because of this they suffered all hundreds of thousands of athletes, hundreds of clubs and dozens of federations, who, over time, have come to this House to long set out the difficulties they felt on the ground and its consequences. And that is what Parliament has told the government and the government several times said here that no, that the matter was being settled. In fact, it's been a year now that the government said here that it was going to create a fund...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u107	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u108	... and nine months later approved the fund in the Council of Ministers. But there is no platform, there are no rules — no one knows how you can access these EUR 65 million, Mr. Miguel Matos, because there are no rules. Between the announcement of the fund in June 2020, and March 2021, when it was created, there was no time to think how it would be made. It has to be done! This is clearly the sign of the political weight of sport, which is null. When there is a medal, it is nice for government members to receive the medal to give you a order, but to allow this athlete to have better performance and more results are no longer. And they're no longer because that gives work and costs money. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u109	At the beginning of the activity, which is now happening, the tests don't pay the kids, Mr. Deputies! It's a shame! They have to be the parents or clubs who don't have any money anymore. This is the reality! [[PSD applause.]] Or, then, you don't know the country, you don't have kids in clubs doing athletics, practicing sports...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u110	And you know what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u111	I know, because I have people at home who are young athletes, like many here have, and you don't have, because otherwise I'd know that's not so, I'd know I'm right. The question is this. That is so, and it is with your permission because, if the PS Parliamentary Group were to impose itself on the Government in this matter, these small problems, whose resolution is fundamental for sport to be a more positive reality, would not happen. But you're going to throw away, and it's too bad! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u112	Fuck the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u113	The second request for clarification and last in this series belongs to Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by congratulating Mrs Alma Rivera and the CFP on the subject which brought the debate with this political statement. In fact, when we talk about sports, we talk about a very important dimension of our lives even for health reasons, but also for sociability, as we all know. He referred to a matter that is too important, which has to do with the collectivities and amateur sport, which have a fundamental role. In addition, in many localities in our country, the role of these groups is not only in sport, it is, above all, social networking in the places where these clubs are inserted, often with valences that go far beyond the sport itself and that during this period have warned Parliament of the difficulties they were feeling. Precisely because they were collectives were excluded from certain support. There were several attempts to be considered as having the right to support, but until now, May 2021, the overwhelming majority of these local groups had no support. And this meant, in some ways, not only the end of sports practice but also the end of much of the social support that these collectives do in their places. So I ask how does the honourable Member see this more social part of networking that these collectivities have. I wanted to remind you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, in September 2020, presented a project for extraordinary support to this sector. It was approved at the beginning of this year, we are at the end of May 2021 and the government has not yet defined any criteria for this extraordinary support. It is not clear that we have been in this situation for so long. I would therefore also like to ask the honourable Member how she sees that this problem can be solved as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u115	In response to these two requests for clarification, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u116	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put to the CFP by Mr Emídio Guerreiro and Mrs Isabel Pires. First of all, from the very first moment, when the rules began to come out, we raised the question: if there is no fund, if there is no money to be allocated to the clubs, how are they going to pay for all this? How are the clubs going to pay for the tests and the resume of the activity, since they were closed and not working? That is a question for which we are still unanswered, as we are still not responding to the allocation of the money announced. But the PS and PSD in this area are closer than it might seem, because when the issue of the sports support fund was voted on of EUR 60 million—which were 60 million directed to clubs, there were no credits—...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u117	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u118	... the PS and PSD voted against and the CDS and the Liberal Initiative abstained and, when the VAT reduction was voted on in sports equipment and materials, the PSD and PS understood, both, that it was not worth approving this measure, it was not necessary, and therefore the PSD abstained and the PS voted against. On the issue of the exemption from IRC up to €30 000, how did the PSD vote? He voted according to the PS! They both agree very much on the issues of sport! In fact, a draft resolution was adopted which recommended that the Government set up a fund. This project only makes no explicit mention of financial support, because the PSD, under discussion in the committee, allowed it. Therefore, we will not pretend that there are discrepancies of opinion when, in fact, they do not exist at the time of truth. The issue raised by Mrs Isabel Pires is indeed the central issue. What is the issue here, what do we need to overcome with regard to sport? There's so much going on here! It is at stake the interior, which often comes here; it is at stake the lives of young people; it is at stake the fight against social problems; it is at stake the inclusion; it is at stake the health, which is a good that we speak every day. And it seems that this is not enough to motivate a determined action that becomes a national design, that sport becomes a central issue — sport and culture, which cannot be a second issue. This is not a second issue, because it directly affects thousands of Portuguese, indirectly millions, but directly involves more than 700 000 Portuguese. We have an idea of this dimension, which is linked to associativeism, to the association movement, to the organization of populations and therefore needs to be protected, caressed and not shrugged as it is. As mentioned above, we need to have a health policy that looks at health not only as a fight against disease but also as a prevention of disease, as a promotion of well-being. Therefore, sport has a fundamental role. So you need to pay attention to working hours, there must be sports equipment, clubs to involve...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u119	Mrs. Member, when you can finish, thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u120	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, for us sport is an essential part of a new policy that our country needs. He needs another policy that responds to the deepest hopes of the population. We call it 'patriotic and left-wing policy', precisely because it puts the interests of millions of Portuguese first, against foreign interests. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u121	We will move on to the third political declaration this afternoon, which is up to the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : During the last two years of combating the pandemic, the CDS has repeatedly denounced in this Parliament the late response from the Government, the fact that it often goes after the damage, the hesitations it has had in the application of many of the measures and the wrong options it has also taken. Obviously, at this point, when we talk about the post-pandamy, it is necessary to do different. Therefore, we will not today choose to criticize what is behind, but rather to say, on behalf of the CDS, what we find essential in the period we are going to live after this situation. And we are not going to talk here today about the great works, TAP (Portuguese Air Transport), climate change or even digital transition. These have been the main points of debate and are often those that interest the government, but there are many lives and many people beyond these issues, and we need to look at it. You need to realize the advantage of planning so that you can get results. It is necessary to realize the advantage of setting priorities to effectively help those who need the most accurate and it is necessary to set targets so that there can then be an assessment of whether or not these objectives are met. That is why the challenges we have from now on must be well known, well-defined for us to be able to respond to them. Today, on behalf of the CDS, I present here five social challenges and five economic challenges of the post-pandamy. In social challenges, we should start with health. We must realize that right now, when the health system continues to respond to the pandemic, but it is already beginning to be able to respond to other requests, the recovery of waiting lists, both consultations and surgeries, must be the priority. We cannot stop doing what has not been done during that period. There were many Portuguese who stayed behind in their health care and it is now that you have to start recovering this lost time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u124	Also in education it is necessary to recover the lost learnings. We need to be aware that more than ever the inequalities between students have been accentuated during this period. Those who had difficulties had even more difficulties and even those who did not have them during this period. It is essential that, from a pedagogical point of view, be careful that no one stay behind. In social security, it is also necessary to understand who can help more in the responses that will have to be given in the post-pandamy, and there, no doubt, it is necessary to continue to value the third sector, and to value it even more in answers that will be necessary and for which the third sector has the capacity to respond, such as the case of the continuing mental health care network. It is not enough to say that mental health is one of the main problems and consequences of this crisis, it is necessary to understand how it is solved and who, on the ground, can help solve it. The same applies to new forms of reconciliation between work and family life. Telework was, of course, an instrument for the adaptation of work to the pandemic, it is certainly a future instrument for the possibility of increasing productivity, but, first of all, of increasing the quality of life of families. So when we discuss telework, there can be no productivity and quality of life. It is necessary to realize that the solution is exactly in being able to cross one thing and the other, so that those who work can actually have more time for themselves, but can also, by producing more, have better return in terms of wages of the work they deliver. In addition, there is the question of vocational training and conversion. at this time, there are necessarily challenges that have to do with what the labour market asks, which is substantially different from what it asked before. The digital transition has accelerated a lot and there are many people who will need more training and new training in order to be able to have job opportunities. It is also necessary to concentrate priority on social matters. from an economic point of view, we also need to clarify clearly what should be the priorities. The first of all is the efficiency of the bazouca. It is not enough to say that the financial 'bassucca' exists, it is not enough to receive European money, it is necessary to know, indeed, where we are going to commit this money. And the first data is very worrying. The Banco de Portugal provides for a growth of 2, 3 % by 2023. Before, in the Stability Programme, the Government provided for a growth of 2, 1 % for the same period. That is, with the data we have right now, the increase of so much money that we are going to receive is just two tenths. This is absolutely unthinkable for a country that has to regain competitiveness and even more when we know that, no 1. the quarter of this year, Portugal had the largest recession in the European space, 5, 4 %, when the average recession in the European Union was 1, 7 %. It is also necessary to help those sectors that have been most affected by the crisis. We need to be effective in the support that still exists and know that sectors like tourism need more than the programme that has been approved today, because from a regional point of view, for example, there are regions that will have much more difficulty in recovering than others and, even among operators, there are some that will have much more difficulty in recovering than others, as is the case with travel agencies. It is necessary to respond to the challenge of corporate capitalisation and finally understand what the Development Bank will do and what it will serve. A structural problem of the Portuguese economy must also be solved: that of productivity. Only increasing productivity will it be possible to increase the average wage of Portuguese. There is also the challenge of competitiveness. In addition to the costs of context, it is necessary to solve structural problems of justice and also to face the challenge of the competitiveness of our tax system, which the OECD itself ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) has already identified as one of the factors for reducing the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u125	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u126	I will finish, Mr. President. In recent years the Portuguese have worked hard to resolve the bankruptcy that the Socialist Party left in 2011. They saw the opportunity lost in the pre-pandamy years by a socialist government. There can be no two without three and the Socialist Government now misses the opportunity of European support.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u127	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u128	The Portuguese deserve more competence from the rulers, but, above all, they deserve to be freed from exclusively socialist solutions in public policies. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u129	The Bureau shall record five entries for requests for clarification. I am asking for the approval of the registrations to be made during the political declarations to the extent that telephone congestion in the Bureau allows. How do you intend to respond, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u130	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u131	Of course. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sofia Matos of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida, I welcome and congratulate him on the initiative to have brought to debate the issue of the social and economic challenges of the post-pandamy in Portugal, but we must also not forget that the government that intends to transform Portugal in the future is exactly the same as it hypothesized the future in the management of the pandemic. I can give you a number of examples: when we closed the country too late or when we opened it too early; when this government made an absolutely disastrous and foolish management of testing policy, but also of vaccination policy at the beginning.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u134	I can also talk to you about public investment. The honourable Member has addressed health and education issues, but this government is exactly the same as it has not yet been able to achieve the level of investment of the troika. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, see how this is possible! We therefore speak of a government that, Budget after Budget, besides not executing expenditure or investment, is constantly promising what ultimately cannot be fulfilled. And this is also the government that decides to invest EUR 4 billion in the TAP, but does not use exactly the same revenue for the other companies, which remain subject to the difficulties and lack of government strategy. This government, Mr President, is the same as the PRR, a document on which we still know very little, a document which aims to recover the country and bet on in the future, but which does not go beyond a compendium of public works that the ministers of this government have so long wanted to make over the past few years and which once again risk not fulfilling. The honourable Member has talked about productivity, and that is exactly what we should spend Europe's money on, but that's not what's going to happen. We have a government that wastes a great opportunity to change the country. The honourable Member spoke about social security, and I welcome it, but this is the government that refuses to make the necessary reforms that the country needs, using the pandemic as an excuse. I'd like to know what the next excuse they're gonna use is.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u135	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u136	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. We have a government that is constantly ruling for the next elections rather than ruling for the next generations. I am 30 years old, Mr. Deputies, and I've seen two decades lost. If we do not take the socialist government from the top of power, we risk losing two more generations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u137	To reply, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Sofia Matos, taking at the end of her speech, would say-CL - she would have to have a little more in a decade than the honourable Member does not bring me an advantage, brings me only the result of having lived another lost decade. I think we all hope, one day in Portugal, that we can definitely recover a model that we want to be sustained growth, because only a sustainable growth model can allow Portuguese families to live better. Any other model is illusion, and that is the illusion that comes from socialism, that we may have better living conditions for people if we do not have a more competitive economy. This never happened anywhere and will not happen in Portugal. If we continue to grow below 3%, we will never be able to have enough development to see this social effect in Portuguese families. That is why the ambition must be that, and the honourable Member has talked about a number of issues that have a great deal to do with this. The government has made it difficult for many sectors to recover and get out of the crisis right now. The concerns about trade and restoration, for example, have caused enormous damage to sectors that occupy thousands and thousands of Portuguese, whether small entrepreneurs, or those employed in these sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u139	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u140	We remember well those chaotic weekends in which the government, without any scientific basis, invented the magnificent theory that it would protect public health if everyone was shut down at home from 13 hours, putting everyone on the street at the same time until that time. No one benefited from this, but the merchants and the restorative entrepreneurs came out badly damaged. Also no one explains at this time why if a restaurant closes at 22 hours and 30 minutes better protects public health than it closes at midnight. We are so far to know this, but I tell you what is going on economically: instead of making two rounds of dinners and power, thus paying back your activity and that of your workers, the restaurant is even more afflicted from the point of view of the treasury because it has to have the whole structure to work, but has less time to make it profitable. It is this kind of mistake that the Socialist Government does not realize that they necessarily involve people and families on a daily basis and that they severely harm our escape from the crisis. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u141	Mr Ventura has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u142	Mr President, I begin by welcoming the CDS and Mr. João Pinho de Almeida for today's political statement. It is interesting to see how the Socialist Party and the Government have managed to bring us to a situation in which the country's great commitment to competitiveness has become this — and he has touched on the question: Portugal is today the fourth worst country in the European Union in fiscal competitiveness. The worst fourth, I repeat! This means that we are the country with more bureaucracy, tax incidence and legal awkwardness in terms of business attraction. The same government that wants to attract employment and investment is the worst in Europe to attract it. The studies are not ours, they are from the OECD and say that Portugal is the fourth worst country in Europe in this matter. If there could be any reason for us all to agree, it would be to make Portugal an extremely competitive economy. But I would like to ask you about your view of the Recovery and Resilience Plan presented. The Socialist Government has presented it as a recovery plan for the next 10 years and we all realize that this means more investment in the state machine, more investment in the public machine and a complete neglect of private investment, which makes employment and the economy grow.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u143	Would you like to conclude, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u144	I conclude, Mr. President. What we're going to have is more structure, more debt, but less employment and less investment. How is it possible to have an investment of this kind, a socialist government, at a time when we needed to invest money in companies and the economy? Thank you for your tolerance, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u145	You have the floor to answer Mr João Pinho de Almeida from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ventura, from now on I am sorry that I have no logistical way to answer that it is not from back to back for you. The question of fiscal competitiveness is essential, and we cannot separate the following three realities, which are deeply linked: first, we are one of the worst countries in the European Union ; secondly, we are one of the countries which, from the point of view of GDP (gross domestic product) per capita, has fallen back, compared with their European partners, in recent years ; and thirdly, the slow evolution of the average wage in Portugal. If we see all this in our partners, those with greater fiscal competitiveness in the European Union, we see that they have increased their GDP per capita and, of course, increased the average wage. Therefore, not to understand the relationship between fiscal competitiveness, the ability to attract investment, the ability to pay and the obvious consequence that the remuneration of the investment has in the remuneration of the labour factor is not to perceive at least how an open economy works. That is what we have to achieve in Portugal, but the PRR is exactly the opposite. This is the socialist model of thinking that it is not the attraction of investment, the remuneration of investment and the remuneration of the work factor that brings better quality of life to the Portuguese. On the contrary, it is the socialist model of thinking that it is the investment in structures in the Public Administration that will manage to generalize the effects, which it has never achieved and which it will never achieve. The honourable Member asked me what is the consequence of this. Well, it is the normal consequence of socialism, in this case with more money than ever and with the ability to have a lost opportunity, as always. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u147	Mrs Alma Rivera of the PCP has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u148	Mr President, Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, I would like to congratulate you on your speech on such a comprehensive subject, which gives us an opportunity to address such important issues. The honourable Member said that it is not the investment in public administration and public services that saves us. But that was what saved us in the context of our health problem. Many of the problems we had were also a consequence of decades of underfinancing, for which the CDS also contributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u150	In the SNS ( National Health Service ), the problems that occurred were exactly the lack of staff to respond to needs and inadequate means in view of the need to respond at this time to the replacement of the planned activity. Therefore, I ask: does the CDS follow the proposal, for which the PCP has been beaten, to strengthen the various professionals of the SNS to respond and restore the scheduled activity? The situation has also shown us that public school is not suitable for needs. There are such large classes that it is not possible, at least, to keep 1 m distance between students. Does the honourable Member think that the public school needs an employee reinforcement? Does the PCP accompany this demand by employees, by senior technicians, by teachers, by reducing the number of students by class? The situation has also shown us that workers have an essential function: they structure our society, work is a structural element for the country. We realize that, without workers, especially essential services, nothing goes forward and that without them, we would not have been able to respond to the pandemic. Therefore, consider, as the CFP, that wages should be valued? Do you think that there is a need for a fair remuneration for the work of those who work so hard to make the country work, particularly with the increase in the national minimum wage? Do you think that precariousness and precarious links should be combated? Do you consider, for example, that we should create conditions for the absence of abuse in telework? Do you think that specific rules should be created so that it will not be much cheaper to have workers at home, provided they pay the specific costs that the company would pay? Do you consider that the Act (Working Conditions Authority) should have a significant strengthening and more executive capacity to solve the very serious problems that exist? We would like to get answers to these questions from the CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u151	You have the floor to answer Mr João Pinho de Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Alma Rivera, if your question is whether the CDS adheres, either in response to the pandemic, or what follows from the ideological point of view, to the responses of the CFP, of course that the answer is « no ». I will therefore take advantage of this time of intervention, just as the honourable Member has taken advantage of, and well! The honourable Member has taken advantage of this to defend the agenda of the CFP on these matters and I will be opposed to the agenda of the CSD, of course on the factual matter. If there is something that so far has proved that the best solution is the one for the recipients of public policies, which are always people. No policy that favours those who provide service is better than the policy that favours those who receive it. Therefore, we must realize that it was evident in this fight against the pandemic that public service is the one that provides public and private entities in meeting each other's needs. I will tell you, frankly, that if we were solely dependent on public responses, we had gone far worse in this pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u153	I don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u154	It's so much worse! The government, often by ideological complex, encouraged by the CFP and other forces sitting in this Parliament, has delayed solving the problems, not recognizing the importance of social responses and private responses, delaying what could be the response to people. [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] I only remind you of what happened in the homes, where, by ideological complex, it took time to recognize that the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) had a fundamental role in responding to this crisis. There had to be pandemic outbreaks in the homes in order for the state to realize that it had to cooperate with these IPSSs to solve the problems. She says to me: "It was the state that resolved it. » Mr Member, if it had not been the IPSS, would the elderly in Portugal have gone through this protected situation as they have? Despite the state, would-CL have saved so many deaths?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u155	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u156	I will finish, Mr. President. That is why I tell you, honourable Member, that if this pandemic has shown anything, the principle of subsidiarity must preside over public policies. We will certainly have better public policies if we guide the response to the citizen than if we direct it solely to the State. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u157	Also to ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u158	Mr President, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida, responding to the economy in this post-pandamy means looking radically different for society, for needs and for what has been done over the years, particularly since the 1990s, in a productive and energy transition that responds to climate change and is done with social justice. Both transport, energy and jobs need to ensure this climate transition and social justice. Looking at the economy of care, for example, and the issue of housing as a structuring axis of a just economy is essential in this discussion. Without public policies, there will not even be a right to housing, which was, I recall, 'grid' by the model of the wild market and by the speculation that the CDS promoted while it was in power. The same can be said of the thousands of public jobs that must be created in the social field. And, it is true, if anything the pandemic has shown us, it was that another model is needed for the area of care. And this is done, yes, with public investment, with planning, with economic democracy. I wanted to bring here, as an example, something that is happening in the city of Porto. A daycare in Cedofeita, with 100 children, is now faced with the possibility of its closing on 31 July, with a previous warning of about a month. And it's not because there's no need for responses to day care on the market, it's because the market doesn't respond to the needs of these people who live on their incomes and who don't have $500 or $700 to pay for day care for children who need answers, so their parents and their mothers can work. I would like to know, Mr President, how you answer this question, that the third sector entities clearly do not respond, when it is necessary to keep them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u159	To reply, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u160	Mr President, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, I think that the last part of her request for clarification shows a huge disregard for one of the most important sectors of Portuguese society, the third sector, the social sector, not only for what lends to so many people who need it, but also for the number of people who employ it. It is that you, who now, through the speech of the honourable Member, devalue the role of the social sector and even accuse it of not being able to respond to the needs,... [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] ... they are the same as when it comes to the workers of these social institutions—it was in these social institutions that people found employment, it was in these social institutions that developed their project of life and it was in these social institutions that often managed to realize the dream of their professional training—they defend them, as if they were working in some abstract entity. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] But no, Mrs. Deputy! If he defends the workers of these entities, he must realize that he cannot attack those who give them employment; if he defends the workers of those entities, he cannot attack those who, while at the same time giving them employment, solve many of the social problems of the country. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] So I must tell you the following: knowing that during this pandemic so many people, in so many social institutions, risked their own lives, putting them at risk when the State did not provide personal protective equipment, it did not provide tests and did not delay in providing vaccines, and continued to risk, because it knew that there were elderly, children and people with disabilities who could not be answered, knowing this, Mrs. Deputy is now saying that social sector entities do not respond when necessary? Oh, my God! This is not an insult to these entities, it is above all an insult to thousands of Portuguese workers working in these institutions and who have not abandoned who needed them. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] It is very easy to speak here, in a parliamentary place, of a parliamentary seat of the Left Block, about what social reality is. But believe that it is much more difficult to bear witness in each of these institutions and to provide service to those who effectively need it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u161	Finally, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Hugo Carvalho, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u162	Mr President, I begin by congratulating Mr João Pinho de Almeida, a good parliamentary officer. But, as a good parliamenter it is, I brought here a narrative that needs to be deconstructed. I am 33 years old—three decades, as it was quantified by some of the Members who went before me—and it was 33 years ago that they allowed me to study in a public school, to qualify me in a public school, to have equal opportunities to someone who, at first, had more opportunities than I did. This was also the country that was built and that is the country that I do not deny. And it was also the state — and not only with a public school, but with a National Health Service that protects those who need — that was able to respond to the pandemic crisis that we now live. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was the National Health Service that gave an answer to everything Mr. Deputies accused you here. That is, he came to say that the state machine is heavy, that the state machine does not let it resolve, that the state castrates. But it was this state machine that allowed us to return what was important right now: the value of life, to fight for the lives of the Portuguese. Mr. João Almeida, I could not fail to underline this note. The honourable Member, as a good parliamentary officer who is — I know — also referred to the data of the first quarter of the economy. However, they have put an end to a fallacy that matters here to deconstruct. It is that the data of the first quarter, Mr Deputies, relate to a period of excessive, harsh and violent confinement that our country has had to suffer in order to respond to the value of life, which is essential — between life and the economy, Portugal has chosen, and well, to defend life. You are comparing data on a period of confinement in which we were the first to respond to the third wave of the pandemic. If you want to compare correctly, you have to look at this third wave and see that there are countries that have completely different times of confinement. If we want to do a serious analysis, we cannot compare « garlic with bugs». Sir, let me ask you a question. This must be answered here, in this debate, and I want you to answer that. If the indicators were so bad, if the government's response was so bad, he explained why the unemployment rate today is still 6, 8 %. This rate is due to a great resilience of our economy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u163	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u164	Resilience of companies!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u165	... because the state has invested in the economy, because the state has been able to defend companies. He knows that in the first four months of the year, it was EUR 1 6 billion in full support for our companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u166	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u167	That's what makes the difference in people's lives, i.e. defending the job and those who need it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u168	To reply, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u169	Mr President, Mr Hugo Carvalho, I thank you for the kind words you have spoken to me, but we are actually here to discuss what each of our parties proposes and the alternatives that exist and that it is good that they exist. Therefore, each of us defends his point of view is, I think, the most important thing we can do here and the realization of the parliamentary representation that each of us here has of whom he has elected us. Mr President, I am very specific in reply to the final question put forward and which has to do with the economic data. There is no previous confinement that justifies — and we could even go to the rigour to know whether we have defined or not as much as others, but we are talking in one quarter, we are not talking for a fortnight or up to one month — in one quarter, we have a recession in Portugal of 5, 4 % of GDP and that compares with a European average of 1, 7 % of GDP. There is no anticipation or protection of valuable life. So we'd better see in time what's the problem we have. By the way, Mr President : I could have come here to make an intervention in which I grasped these 5, 4 % recession, and only said badly about the reality of the government. But you'll have noticed that my speech wasn't about that. My intervention was exactly about post-pandemic priorities and how we can solve this problem. I haven't wasted any time saying wrong to the government, until I think the conviction about it is widespread, so it would really waste time. That the government was not well, we all know. Now, the important thing is to know how the country will do better.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u170	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u171	And in unemployment we have an example of this. Do you know why that happens? It is because employment, fortunately, in Portugal, still depends very much on each of the entrepreneurs, the small entrepreneurs, whose last thing they did, in such a difficult situation as this from a social point of view, was to fire someone. You should have respect for these people, for those who have often worked hard, them and their families, to keep the job of other people who have worked with them all their lives and who are unable at this time to question them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u172	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u173	I will finish, Mr. President. What the government must do at this time is not to rejoice at this, without giving an answer; it is to recognize the commitment of so many small entrepreneurs, who have protected employment and who have been able, in response to the crisis, to give that counterpart. By the way, I also wanted to tell you that I studied in public school, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u174	For a political declaration, you now have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: EUR 130 billion was what our country received in 33 years, via European funds, to carry out the supposed Portuguese miracle throughout the world in a country which, when it joined the former EEC ( European Economic Community ), both had to resolve, in particular at the level of areas as infrastructure or at the environmental level. We are talking about EUR 10, EUR 8 million a day. However, a number of studies tell us that these funds did not always serve to carry out the structural reforms that the country needed, particularly in matters of waste, water supply and sanitation. But that's not all these studies tell us. These studies go further and tell us that the effect that European money could have had was called into question by the excessive centralization of the decision-making process, by the creation of artificial difficulties of candidacy, by the lack of civil society and the business fabric, by a certain tendency towards patronage phenomena and by their instrumentalization for election purposes. Moreover, a report by the European Anti-Fraud Agency of 2019 tells us that our country lost between 2015 and 2019 within the framework of the structural and agricultural funds about 1, 92 % of the total investment, following fraud and irregularities, this value which makes Portugal the eighth country of the European Union with the highest percentage of losses! Unfortunately, it is not only because of the opacity and inadequate use of the Community money that Portugal saw escape from among the fingers billions of euros, which were so important for the development of the country. Indeed, another chronic problem that our country is experiencing is the manifest failure of the proper implementation of European funds, which is evident, for example, in the multiannual financial framework 2014 - 2020, in which only a little more than EUR 14 billion of this same fund has been executed, an execution of only 58 %, i.e. far from the goals and objectives set for the country. There is also a clear departure from civil society on this issue, a clear departure from the data of the 2019 Eurobarometer, which tells us that only around 38 % of Portuguese people are aware of projects co-financed by the European Union in their region and that only 12 % feel that these funds have brought about an improvement in their daily lives. This is not, in fact, just a matter of importance, involving its resolution of commitments and new formulas and not just the old solutions. If not, see, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This withdrawal creates mistrust in civil society. And the existence of a climate of distrust is something that does not benefit anyone. It cannot be surprising, therefore, that the statistics tell us that 42 % of the citizens do not expect money from the so-called European bazauca to be earned for the country and that more than 60 % do not believe that the money will be managed well. That is, more than 60 % of our citizens do not believe in the ability of the government and the country to manage funds that are so fundamental to their lives and to solve their problems. These worst indicators of our past, which mark and compromise our future, are demonstrating the risks of corruption to which our country is exposed and the discredit of public institutions in the face of civil society, which can and should be avoided if there are strong institutions and mechanisms for transparency and scrutiny of the management and implementation of European funds. We recall that, on a proposal from the NAP, and on the basis of the recommendations of the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) and the Council for the Prevention of Corruption ( CPC ), a portal for transparency in the process of implementing the European Funds has been approved, the so-called « bazouca ». Without this portal, it would never be possible, in real time, to present the measures and supported projects, their budgetary cost, their territorial scope, the number of beneficiaries, the beneficiary entities, the allocation criteria and their degree of implementation. But we need to go further. And if the NAP is aware of having done the housework, the government, in some cases, and the central block, in others, not only did it, as, in contrast with the desires of Portuguese and Portuguese, have aggravated the opacity and lack of citizen participation throughout the process associated with European funds. When it was required that the Court of Auditors, the institution which has the power to monitor the implementation of the European funds, should have regard to its powers and strengthened means, what have the Government and the central bloc done? Nothing else, except to amend the Public Contracts Code to ease the controls and monitoring mechanisms of the Court of Auditors. And as if this were not bad enough, the government and the central bloc also chose to create a multiplicity of new structures, whose usefulness and intricate form of articulation is more similar to a puzzle and which is no more than a simulation of control and scrutiny of the so-called European bazouca. According to the central bloc, an independent committee was created, which, in our view, is no longer more than beautifying and covering what is actually at stake: the smoothing of the powers of the Court of Auditors. A measure that, in times of crisis—see yourself well! — it shall give its members an equalization to the status of superior leader of 1. the degree of remuneration, without, however, requiring them exclusivity, without requiring them strict rules of incompatibilities and impediments and without ensuring any requirement in the prevention of conflicts of interest. Also by decision of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Members have also created a monitoring structure for the PRR, with monitoring functions, and the National Monitoring Commission for the PRR, whose composition is completely closed in the area of government dependence and confidence. The involvement of civil society in a context in which citizen participation is absolutely fundamental is seen simply. It is in this sense that the NAP has now introduced a proposal which aims not to go through the old revenues of the past, but rather to bring participatory democracy to the centre of monitoring the implementation of the European funds. Other countries have already shown us successfully that it is possible to bring citizen democracy into the process of structural decisions. In France, we had the citizens' convention for climate, created to approve a set of structural changes at the level of the environment. In Germany, we had the assembly of citizens for the reform of the democratic system, which sought to combat extremism...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u176	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u177	I am indeed concluding with your tolerance, Mr President. As I was saying, Germany sought to combat extremism and regain the confidence of civil society in democracy, with structural changes. In the wake of these good examples, the NAP has entered today a legislative initiative that aims to ensure the creation of a citizen assembly to function within the framework of the PRR governance model, thus believing that with the effective involvement of our community of citizens, we can truly respond to the problems of people and the country and follow its own implementation. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u178	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real's speech raises requests for clarification from two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. In the meantime, the honourable Member has informed the Bureau that he will answer together. First of all, Mr Hugo Costa of the Socialist Party has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I begin by complimenting you. There is one thing that in the Socialist Party we are sure: that these years of European integration have brought us to development and allowed vast regions of our country to have infrastructure, basic sanitation, Mrs. Perhaps it would be important to leave the centre of Lisbon and look at the country, Mrs. With regard to transparency, Portugal is one of the few countries with confidence contracts at the level of the European Union, Mrs Deputy. How does it justify Portugal having this trust contract? As regards the Court of Auditors, even yesterday, at the hearing in the possible monitoring committee of the COVID-19, the President of the Court of Auditors made it clear that exceptional measures were necessary in exceptional times. And some of the problems they had with this matter were about the new competences they also had on the PRR. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Member how she explains this matter concerning the Court of Auditors and the discussion on the Public Contracts Code, which has already been promulgated by the President of the Republic. Mrs Deputy, we have a very relevant value of EUR 13, EUR 9 million from the RPP, resulting from the European solidarity mechanism. And, yes, the Portuguese know that the Community funds and the structural funds — with their mistakes, of course — were very relevant to the development of our country. And we have more than EUR 33 billion in the new Community Support Framework. The NAP, a party that is always so interested—and well—in the climate transition, in the green economy, knows what the value attributed to this matter means? Do you know what about 45 % of PRR for the ecological transition? You know, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u180	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u181	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in view of your political statement, I would like to stress that the Community funds and the structural funds, with all the mistakes of this process, of course, are a phenomenon of development, growth and national cohesion for the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u182	You now have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mr Duarte Marques, from the PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, more important than we have discussed the amounts or how much Portugal has already enjoyed, perhaps the most important is whether it has enjoyed well, whether it has applied well. If Portugal has grown much in recent years, thanks also to the investment of European funds, imagine if we had invested better than we have often done! The NAP expresses a contradiction in its speech: on the one hand, it wants less rules and more ease, and on the other hand, it wants more control. You have to define what you want. But the question I put to the NAP is whether or not it is so important to ensure a good monitoring committee — a curious fact: who designed the plan is who will monitor it, but there we will... — to ensure the management bodies of these Community funds, that in practice they will triple what we have, because there are still 3 billion to spend on PT 2020, we will have the PT 2030 and, at the same time, the PRR... And if we are already late, as the Socialist Party itself recognizes, recommending that we create more capacity in agencies, such as the IPPMEI (Competition and Innovation Agency) and other management bodies, to be able to implement and respond better to entities and businesses, how will it be to triple value? I would therefore say, Mr President, that our focus for now must be to ensure that the Public Administration will not block the implementation of the funds nor will it consume them all, allowing companies and other institutions to use the part they have and the part they have to remain, which must be strengthened, because the development of this country has been greatly leveraged in Community funds. Therefore, Mr President, for us, PSD, the most important thing is the good governance of the funds, it is to use them well and not create monsters of expenditure that we cannot then support. I therefore challenge the NAP to stand by the PSD to demand that the government, in the same way as it requires the banks, since it prolongs the moratoriums on the repayment of loans to banks, do the same with the replacement of the values of the incentive system to companies that depend on the IAPMEI. It is because the government tells the banks to charge later, but, as far as it is concerned, it has already ordered to start charging in May, as if there had not been a second confinement. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u184	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking you for the questions that have been put to me. Mr Hugo Costa, on the issues you have raised, I believe that to some extent you did not hear what we were talking about. We don't diabolize,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u186	Diabolizam, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u187	... on the contrary, we recognize the importance of Community funds in cohesion and territorial development. And if I were careful, I would have realized that that was clearly what we were talking about. But more: we recognize what is the importance of proper supervision and monitoring — it will certainly agree with us — that there must be such funds when we have four-year implementation rates by 2020 in the order of 58 %. And, even more seriously, Mr President, I remember that, in environmental matters, Portugal executed only 7, 2 % of the same funds when the undertaking was to implement at least 20 %. That is to say, we clearly fell short of what was the investment capacity for such a structural and important matter as the fight against climate change, which we find absolutely unacceptable. in this sense, Mr President, it seems to us, in fact, that the absence of effective implementation of the funds, coupled with the phenomena of corruption, to ease the control mechanisms, either of the Court of Auditors or of the amendment to the Public Contracts Code... and we will have this discussion here in the Assembly of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u188	The Court of Auditors says otherwise!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u189	At the time of the Justice Pact, we will have that same debate on the mechanisms for monitoring and combating fraud and avoidance, but also on the phenomena of corruption, which undermine the confidence of our citizens in these matters. We hope that the Socialist Party will indeed accompany us in what has been not only the struggle to strengthen the fight against corruption through the instruments we have entered in this Assembly of the Republic, but also through the PRR. And given that it is a unique opportunity—one! — to ensure that present and future generations have a more coherent, more developed country, with a sustainable energy transition,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u190	He didn't ask him anything and he answered him and he didn't answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u191	Sir, you're not forgotten. We therefore hope that the PS will actually be able to follow us in that desire. Mr Duarte Marques, I did not forget at all how much more it was for solidarity, because — and I am sorry for the joke — it has a very beautiful tie today. [[Laughing.]] Mr President, we are not always opposed to what our views are. With regard to what may be the subject under discussion here, in order to ensure monitoring committees, we are perfectly in agreement with the implementing and control bodies of these bodies. With regard to this same issue, Mr President, we could not fail to mention that both in relation to development and in relation to its implementation we perfectly follow the idea that as important as ensuring the implementation of the funds is to ensure, in the amount of time, that the allocation mechanisms are not only more effective as well as faster and that there is no excessive bureaucracy, without allowing the control mechanisms, particularly anti-fraud and anti-corruption, which unfortunately we know persist.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u192	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u193	I really am concluding, Mr President. But, sir, I'll give you back the challenge. In fact, it was very important for us that the PSD should come to meet the NAP and follow our initiative, which aims to form an assembly of citizens so that we can effectively ensure more effective monitoring of the PRR.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u194	We move on to the political declaration of the Socialist Party. To that end, Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we can say that Portugal has doubled the Cabo das Tormentas with regard to this pandemic, but we are aware that nothing is guaranteed. in this disease, there is always imponderable, but today we are better prepared to face it. However, at every false step, we can put our situation at risk. It is therefore still important to be aware that it is the responsibility of all of us to keep the pandemic under control. Vaccination against COVID-19 has exceeded expectations, even of some sceptics who initially doubted the ability of Portuguese. We can even say that we have exceeded the objectives that have been defined, despite the contingencies, surprises and some failures in the delivery of vaccines. But with the vaccine hope has come, hope to be more protected, hope to protect the most vulnerable, hope to avoid death and we can progressively resume our lives, even if still with a «new normality». at this moment, Portugal is in a controlled and responsible process of defining, having already received some tourists from the United Kingdom. Looks like it's been a long time, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, since that month of March, when we felt that something was happening in the world and was going to force us to change. We just didn't imagine how much. However, the world was also able to make the fight against COVID-19 a priority, greatly reinforcing investments in science at the service of health, economics and people. Several vaccines were discovered in record time, in less than one year, when decades were predicted. And Portugal managed to obtain vaccines in December as a result of the negotiation by the European Commission in order to avoid competition between countries and to ensure a fair distribution, according to their populations. Otherwise, of course, it would be a terrible struggle between countries with more resources and negotiating capacity. Quickly, governments and states realized that security and protection would not be possible in a selfish perspective. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will only be protected when everyone is protected! And this is, of course, valid for vaccines. In Portugal, vaccination with a view to saving lives was established as a priority. I mean, the next vaccine would have to be administered, we said, and that's what's happening. Portugal received up to the beginning of May 5 million vaccines, with an additional 2, 12 million in this month. The whole territory received vaccines in an unprecedented distribution and administration process covering the continent and islands. And we cannot forget the enormous quality of the Portuguese vaccination plan and the experience of our health professionals, which is central to this challenge that Portugal is winning! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, more than 4, 5 million vaccines have already been administered at the moment, and it is very important that we have managed to reduce mortality greatly because we protect older and weaker people, who already have a very high level of protection at the moment. Portugal did well to prioritize the inoculation of people who are in institutions, with a great impact on the reduction of mortality. Vaccine saves lives! More than 90 % of people over 80 years of age are already vaccinated and the remaining 10 % relate to situations that are being treated, even taking into account that there are still people in different situations, such as bedrocks. 85% of people over the age of 60 already have the first dose of the vaccine and although in many cases they are already being vaccinated at home, this work will continue, because no one can stay behind! As we know, one aspect that initially made vaccination difficult had to do with difficulties in the availability of vaccines which, although they were achieved in record time, were quite insufficient. This reason determined strengthened rigor and priority to the protection of health professionals in the front line, which protected people and cared directly for saving lives. Many needs appeared in various segments of the population, which intended to be included in the criteria defined by the technical vaccination commission. Not everything is resolved, but every day efforts are being made to protect all Portuguese. [[P.S. Lara Martinho's Member's applause.]] in this pandemic disease, the truth is that the ignorance about this virus was huge and global. It was with great effort that we were learning to respond and win this pandemic, with great consequences for people, for economies and, in particular, for certain sectors of activity. We welcome all those involved, from health professionals to the task force, the Technical Commission for Vaccination, DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ), health institutions and the Armed Forces. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Neither the Government nor Parliament have spared any effort to protect the Portuguese. New processes and procedures have been reinvented and with solutions which, we are sure, will remain, as is the case with self-reliance, which has already exceeded the 204 000 applications, but which this week, after the opening of registration to people over 55 years old, records more than 500 000 accessions, which is making the answer difficult, is true, but it is understandable, because in one day more than 25 000 entries have been made. Now, all this demonstrates the success of the portal and that the Portuguese even want the vaccine as soon as possible. That is also the goal of all of us. Relevant is also the performance of the authorities, not only by opening vaccination centers, but also by their role of proximity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u197	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u198	I will finish, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I also stress our commitment to vaccinating prisoners, the prison population, the vaccination that is being done in some areas and also solidarity with the PALOPs (African Countries of Portuguese Official Language ) when we start sending vaccines to Cape Verde. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u199	Mrs Hortense Martins, the Bureau records the registration of six Mrs. Members for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u200	Mr. President, I answer three to three.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u201	All right, Mrs. Deputy. To make the first request for clarification, Mr António Maló de Abreu, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to congratulate Mrs Hortense Martins twice. First of all, by bringing the debate, on behalf of the Socialist Party, in this plenary, the topic of vaccination, the theme of the COVID-19. But I would also like to congratulate you on your moderate approach. I thought we were going back to the Portuguese miracle, I thought we were going back to a narrative we know, which can be summarized in the phrase « the virus until trem when it comes to the PS government ». [[Laughing.]] The truth is, he didn't come in there. It made sense, talking about what it was done and what it was missing to do. We, as you know, have followed all this. But here we could use, let's say, two proverbs to classify or score your intervention. The first is that « better late than ever», it is better that they have made the right step in relation to vaccination than they have never done so ; and the other is to deny the proverb that « what is born wrong late or never right». It is that when they corrected the task force of vaccination with the appointment of Vice-Admirant Gouveia and Melo, when it was realized that the whole structure of the SNS, in particular its professionals, was mobilized, when it was realized that the authorities were engaged in this process and that the Portuguese gave an effective response to what was asked of them, the truth is that « what was born wrong went wrong». I remind you of a statement by the Presidency Minister today concerning the precautions we should have: we are at a level of pandemic growth; the R above 1 is a warning signal. Madam Member, let's all work together to win the COVID-19 pandemic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u203	To request clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u204	Mr President, I greet Mrs Hortense Martins for bringing this issue to debate. This is a subject which is dear to me, which I have brought here several times too, so I would like to begin by referring one of your phrases, in which I said—I suppose not for us, but for someone unidentified— «for those who doubted the Portuguese». Mr. Deputy, at least us on the CDS, we never doubted the Portuguese. Our doubt was quite specific and even had to do with Mrs. Minister of Health. I don't know if you remember, but the Minister, at the end of November, guaranteed that the risk of Portugal not being prepared to vaccinate was zero and that long ago the country was preparing. In fact, then we had reason to have doubts, because it was not so well, a number of shortcomings have happened that I will now excuse myself from listing, until it is time to congratulate ourselves on what is actually going well. And what is running well happened with the entry of the second choice, which should have been the first, which was Mr. Vice-Admiral Gouveia and Melo taking up the vaccination plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u205	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u206	I would like to say that yes, that it is true, that there is a very positive result from the moment he takes up these functions and that this obviously has to do with, too, it is necessary to recognize — with the arrival of a greater number of vaccines. But it is not only the arrival of a larger number of vaccines, but then the ability to apply them correctly. In fact, there's no more problems with the remaining vaccines. And there has been the self-awareness, as I said here, but as I have said, you must have heard Mr. Vice-Admirant say that he was not prepared for it. It was the end of the work, not the end of the Storms, to assemble something that had not been thought of, unlike all the planning that had been announced by the Minister of Health who finally made a difficult, but very successful decision to do vaccination by age groups, rather than looking for small groups that were disrupting capacity and rhythm. But what is currently hampering the vaccination process, and that the honourable Member has excused to mention, is even the DGS and the Technical Vaccination Commission. It is that when they continue to impose incomprehensible standards, without any scientific criteria, such as those imposed on Janssen's vaccine, which can only be administered to people over 50 years of age, this means that when we arrive at the large contingent, which will be in the third quarter, we are already vaccinating people below that age. It turns out, in the words of Mr Vice-Admirante, that three million vaccines remain. So, honourable Member, I ask you: does this sound like a good plan? Does it seem to you that DGS is making the best scientific decision? And based on what? [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u207	To request clarification, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Hortense Martins, I would like to congratulate you on bringing to debate the issue of vaccination, which is very expensive to the CFP, taking into account what the CFP has put forward in terms of proposals to resolve and respond to the underlying problem, which is the lack and shortage of vaccines we are dealing with. Although the honourable Member has expressed some satisfaction and satisfaction with the evolution of vaccination, the fact is that we are faced with what remains, with what the European Union lets us have, when what the CFP has proposed are measures that actually respond to this difficulty of lack of vaccines. Today, the PS should not leave here until it answers two or three questions. One of them, for us, is to know what is the priority of the PS: if it is to continue to be subjected to what is the impositions that the European Union and the pharmaceutical industry place or are on the side of the protection of the life and health of the population, and then take what is the sovereign path of diversification of vaccines. On April 8, the PCP presented here the solutions that responded to the problem of vaccine scarcity, from the need to diversify the purchase of vaccines, fulfilling what is a sovereign option of the country to do everything to acquire the largest number of vaccines, protecting the population. But what the PS brings here is the answer not to want to betray the European Union, harming what is the protection of the population. Another answer would be to create production capacity at national level. It's not just filling out bottles, ma'am. of what we need — of course we have no conditions yet — is to make a way, and we must start to do so so that we may have the conditions to produce the vaccine in Portugal as well. As regards the suspension of patents, it cannot escape this issue either, particularly with regard to the fact that the vaccine must be a public good, a good that is at the service of the population and humanity. The honourable Member has looked at the badly filled glass, not half full, because she has not looked, has not responded to 70 % of the population still to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u209	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u210	I will finish, Mr. President. It did not respond to 85% of the population, which did not have its total benefit. And now, Mrs Deputy, as regards health professionals and authorities, we cannot fail to respond to their needs, creating conditions for the vaccination process to be carried out. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u211	In reply, Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u212	Mr President, I begin by thanking the questions raised and the recognition of the importance of this subject, which we have all followed, and also the moderation we should have in matters of such responsibility. People know perfectly well that it is not with populism, it is not with imagination and unrealism that we solve the problems of Portuguese. And the ladies and gentlemen. Members also know very well that our population recognizes the success of vaccination. I wanted to make this clear. I would also like to make it clear, as I said recently, that not everything is perfect — indeed, the world is not perfect — so this process is not perfect in Portugal as it is not in any country. Of course, at first, when there were few vaccines, it was impossible to reach everyone, but it was possible to set priorities and start by prioritising our home users, of continuing care units. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what you think you should not have been vaccinated, because that is what enabled us to reduce the number of deaths in these units very quickly. Therefore, also health professionals who were in the front line had priority and were vaccinated and, as the vaccines were increased, we were able to reach segments of the population also fragile and deserve this attention. Of course, when there were more vaccines, other criteria, such as age, were established, which is broadest spectrum and allows for accelerated vaccination. Mr Maló de Abreu, I really think we should all have, as I said, but it is not the question of being a military or a civilian who can make a difference. In addition, this task force coordinator was already part of the technical committee and we must also recognize the work and the initial difficulties of the first task force coordinator. But I don't think we have to be here discussing this, because what matters are the results we have achieved. The reinforcement that was made in relation to the National Health Service, this, yes, made the resilience greater and so we could care for the Portuguese. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, of course the vaccination plan was quite important, but it was also said, from the beginning, that the plan had to be adapted and, indeed, that was what was done. He says that I said that there were doubts about what the Portuguese would achieve and it was, indeed, in the sense that many, here, thought that we would not have the capacity, that health professionals in Portugal did not have the capacity to, when the mass vaccination arrived, be able to respond. The truth is that all institutions in Portugal, having these health professionals and also the organization we have, at all levels, were able to respond. Finally, Mr John Dias, on the issue of patents and of the European Union, which he has raised here, I reaffirm that it was because we were together with the European Union that it was possible to have vaccines when we managed to have them, because otherwise it would be much more difficult. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u213	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u214	And I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the issue of patents is not essential, but it is a matter that needs to be examined,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u215	You have far exceeded the time you had, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u216	... as well as the increase in production of these same vaccines. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u217	Mr Bebiana Cunha of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u218	Mr President, firstly, I would like to greet Mrs Hortense Martins and say the following: the NAP has always argued that the vaccination plan should be flexible enough to conform to those that were the identified needs, but we also maintain that high vulnerability and risk groups should be prioritized. Yesterday, in a regiment hearing, we asked Mrs. Minister of Health about when she would start being vaccinated the imprisoned population and we got the information that it would be from May 31st, but we still have no information on what the process of vaccination of people in homeless situations will be, as a result of a recommendation that the NAP brought to this House, because we are obviously talking about people at high risk of vulnerability, and the same is said of people with severe mental illness. We are talking about two groups that are at risk, because of the conditions they are in, but that may also put other people at risk. I would like to know if you have anything to say about this matter, if you have any knowledge of cause. I am also bringing you another question on the other group, on which we have received a lot of information and there are different criteria throughout the country. I'm telling you about the group of people who are caregivers, in work teams in homes where children and young people are taken away from families and also school drivers. We welcome, of course, the Government's decision to vaccinate educational agents, but we are before two groups of people who are clearly connected to children and young people. Moreover, in a country area, specifically in Lisbon and Tejo Valley, there has already been a positive response to advance vaccination and therefore I ask you if you do not think that there should be an equal response throughout the country for these two groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u219	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Hortense Martins, in her political statement she said that it is not possible to have a selfish perspective on vaccination and said that one cannot accept a competition between countries, where rich countries are winning against poor countries. Well, on the side of the Left Block, we cannot disagree with these formulations, the problem is that, in this matter, as in many, the Socialist Party says one thing and does exactly the opposite. What the Socialist Party does, whether its parliamentary group, or the government, by resisting patents and by standing side by side with the interests of BioNTech and the German pharmaceutical industry associated with Pfizer, is exactly producing a selfish perspective and a competition between countries. Note the following, and I am quoting: «the process of vaccination in Europe is unacceptably slow», says the World Health Organization ; « the process of vaccination... », and I continue to quote, «...it is totally unequal and unfair», said Antonio Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations. It is that 10 countries have access to more than 70% of the administered vaccines and more than 100 countries worldwide have not yet had access to one single vaccine. So, what exists right now in the world, with this fantastic tactic that the Socialist Party supports and with the elephant speed of the European Union, is an inequality and a difficulty in accessing vaccination. Why? They resist to massify production, resist to raise patents, resist to diversify acquisitions, because the interests of Pfizer spoke, and speak, higher. I believe that, in fact, more than juggling speeches are needed and more than a Social Summit, which was between the bluff and the flop, from which nothing came, including about vaccination and patents. Therefore, Mrs. Member, what I would like to ask you was how it compatibles your initial formulations with a position that is unsustainable and that is making it difficult...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u221	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u222	I will finish, Mr. President. I was saying, what I would like to ask you was how it compatibles its initial formulations with a position that is unsustainable and that is hindering access to vaccination. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u223	For a request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva, DOS Verdes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Hortense Martins on bringing the issue of vaccination to the debate, which, as we know, came to remain. The vaccine that allows us to return to normal days, with all the positive and negative implications it will have, is also the revelation of how the pandemic may have changed a lot but did not change the essential, solidarity. Today, we hear what we do not deny either: the vaccination process runs according to the plan and an effort is being made to ensure that those most vulnerable to the disease or those most exposed can be protected. But if it is very important to know how many people are being vaccinated, we cannot allow millions of vaccinated people to hide the thousands or tens of thousands who are staying behind. We welcome the efforts of the vaccination teams, but we find it important to know how many isolated elderly people, who should have already taken the vaccine, have not yet been able to do so, how many have not been able to read the texts that were sent, how many have no family doctor and, therefore, have not been placed on the wheel of luck for the vaccine,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u225	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u226	... how many didn't have the fortune of the phone playing when vaccines remained, because there are people giving up the long queues of waiting, standing, in the sun or in the rain. Yes, Mrs. Member, we were hoping that the PS would come here to commend the vaccination process, but we cannot hide that there are problems, that there are difficulties that are only excused by the interest that the population has in the vaccine. Finally, Mrs Deputies, you cannot hide what impacts vaccination is having on the rest of the services, which are hampered by chronic de-investment and lack of staff, which is now, to a large extent, allocated to vaccination, either in the SNS or in the authorities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u227	In reply, Mrs Hortense Martins of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u228	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members and the honourable Member for the questions and comments they have taken on this subject, looking, of course, at a number of points of view, but I would like to say again that it is more important what we have in common, and what we have in common is the unequivocal will of all to be vaccinated and to work to that end. in this measure, we also care about vulnerable people, and these were first vaccinated, and yes, Mrs Mariana Silva, we are concerned about those who can stay behind. But we are also aware of the much work being done, together with the authorities, with the municipal chambers and parish councils, to identify these people and lead them to vaccination. Therefore, vaccination rates for people over 80 are already over 90 %, but of course we will not rest until all are vaccinated and have that protection. I would also like to reply to Mrs Bebiana Cunha to tell her that, in relation to homeless people and those with severe mental illness, they have also been vaccinated with a high priority, especially institutionalized ones, but we know that there is still something to solve. I did not here draw a pink picture or a wonderful world because it does not exist for any issue and neither does it exist for vaccination. I therefore ask them to be serious about the questions raised, because, in fact, what is going on is that the vaccination plan, in Portugal, is having a good performance and we are now making progress so that, until the summer, we all have been vaccinated. Finally, on the issue of patents, if we knew that your survey would make vaccines available to everyone the next day, then I think that this problem would be solved, but the issue of patent lifting does not solve the problem of vaccine availability. [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] I do not deny that this problem has to be equated and verified, but it is also necessary to ensure that production increases and that countries, such as the United States and the United Kingdom, where vaccines can be exported, do so because we in Portugal are doing so and we will meet the objective of providing at least 5 % of our vaccines to PALOP and East Timor, as we are already doing, starting and anticipating, with Cape Verde. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u229	We move on to the next political statement, which I think is the last by Mr André Coelho Lima, of the PSD Parliamentary Group. He is not the last of the honourable Member, he is the last of today in the order of political declarations. Please, honourable Member, with a lot of life and health vows.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has chosen for its political declaration the management of the internal administration's portfolio with a particular focus on reform or restructuring of the SEF ( Foreign and Border Service ) which has been propagated by the Government. It calls on us a subject which has marked political today for the worst reasons, a subject which is a matter of sovereignty but which the Government has dealt with with with demonstrations of tyranny. It's not possible, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that a reform such as that which the Government intends to carry out in a police force of our Internal Security System is done in the wake of this Parliament, which is the same as revealing its prospects for the future. This House expresses the representative plurality of Portuguese and the changes in sovereignty such as the reform proposed for the SEF, cannot be discussed in this Parliament. But it must be understood that what matters here is not the debate here, which is important here to ensure that consensus can be generated so that the amendments to be introduced, these or other, are not at risk of being altered by a future government. This is first of all called respect for the people and for the decisions we have taken on behalf of them. That is why, in matters of sovereignty, governments often have this position, which is not only of institutional respect for Parliament, but is a position required for the balance of legislative amendments and for the sensitivity that should be known of interventions in an area on which the safety of citizens depends. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if we speak in authority of the State, we cannot go to the side of recent events, such as the celebration of the National Football Championship by Sporting. We will all agree that it was obvious to any citizen who, when winning a Championship at the end of 19 years, the fans of the Sporting Club of Portugal wanted to give away their joy. It is, of course, understandable. Therefore, what was competing with the State was not exactly prohibiting these celebrations, it was rather a plan to control them, dominate them and guide them. This is what one expects of those who know what they are doing and are not surprised by the circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u232	But in this case, in addition to the obvious failure in preparing this event, we still attended a Secretary of State of Sport, not resisting to surf the moment, come to the public proclaiming that everything was being properly controlled, to, after his triumphant declarations, have had, I must say, the shame of being justified by saying that he is not responsible for the folder of the Internal Administration. [[PSD applause.]] This is what we have, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! A government with everyone shaking water for one another: the Secretary of State for the Minister, the Minister for PSP ( Public Security Police ), the PSP for the City Council of Lisbon. As you wish, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, does the citizen understand that we couldn't prepare something that everyone knew would happen? How do you want the citizen to see us, watching government members shouldering responsibilities for each other? But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can say the same about the situation in Odemira and the connection it has with the emptying of the competences of the SEF, which has been done for many years and not only now. It is true that Odemira did not arise by chance: it arose due to a change to the law of foreigners, which was approved in 2017 and reinforced in 2019, in accordance with which the PS and the left transformed an exceptional regime of admission of foreigners without verification of formalities in a regime-rule, eliminating requirements for entry into Portugal, leading to an increase of 500 % in the granting of residence permits in 2018 and twice in 2019. An allegedly humanitarian measure, but which then closes its eyes to the conditions under which these people work and live in Portugal. Eduardo Cabrita came to this Parliament saying that «the opposition rhyme pandemic with hypocrisy ». Indeed, Mr Minister, at this juncture, we respond by saying that hypocrisy is to approve a legal amendment to be successful in the championship of tolerance and then withdraw from the working conditions of the people. Hypocrisy is to say that you know what's going on in Odemira and nothing you've done all these years. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u233	Hypocrisy is to make politics for statistics and then not want to know if our country has the conditions to treat these people appropriately. [[PSD applause.]] This is a real manifestation of hypocrisy! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have seen a number of opinions on political action in the area of Internal Administration. We have also seen Mrs Catarina Martins, coordinator of the Left Block, recently requesting the immediate exit of Eduardo Cabrite. We don't know what it's like to ask for the immediate exit. Who are we, the opposition, to want to teach the Prime Minister to rule or to give him tips in the form of driving his team? We must not ask for the resignation of either Eduardo Cabrite or any minister. Yes, we must demand political consequences for the actions of the rulers. For us, the government has only one responsible: it is called António Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u234	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u235	When a Prime Minister ignores the obvious signs of disorientation, when a Prime Minister is indifferent to the manifestations of autism in such a sensitive area as that of the reform of the SEF, when a Prime Minister understands that there must be no responsibilities due to facts that objectively undermine the authority of the State, when a Prime Minister still plays with the situation and the tolerance of the Portuguese, qualifying the "excellent" performance in this folder as its only political responsibility, he becomes the responsible for this discharge to which we attend, without any satisfaction but with obvious concern. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u236	Five Members signed up to request clarification from Mr André Coelho Lima, who informed the Bureau that they wanted to respond first to three and then to the other two. To make the first request for clarification, Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u237	Mr President, Mr André Coelho Lima, brought up a relevant topic, no doubt, although it has addressed two subjects that are diverse: one has to do with the celebrations of sportsmen and the other is related to the Odemira problem. I would like to make some considerations on both cases. With regard to the first case that you brought, we naturally think that people like to participate in celebrations. In fact, it is even publicly known that you participated in a celebration and then you found that it had finally been a less thoughtful thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u238	That's creepy!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u239	The question is not that, Mr, and I do not blame you for it. It's just to say that it's natural for people to want to participate. But, of course, people should have the right care and not all entities have the same care with regard to the implementation of initiatives. On this we know very well what we're talking about. In this case, there was an underestimation by both the organizers and also the security forces. By the way, that's notorious. Yesterday, in a situation where it was not foreseeable that there was such a large influx of followers near the stadium of the Sporting Club of Portugal, there was a huge police device, a little on the basis of that idea that « after home stolen, locks on the door». But, in fact, there was an underestimation of the crowd that could be accumulated and that is, of course, critical. The honourable Member does well to criticise the various entities who should have taken greater attention to this problem and taken the necessary steps to ensure health safety, and the organisers themselves should take this care in the first place. It is not just a civic duty, it is also a duty to guarantee people's health. In this regard, it will be fair to consider that, whenever the CFP has promoted initiatives in which many people could be brought together, all measures have been taken to ensure that there is no problem at this level.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u240	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u241	Mr President, on the question of Odemira, I think that the problem is not the granting of residence permits.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u242	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u243	I shall end, Mr President, the problem is that workers do not even have a residence permit, being victims of labour-trafficking networks, for labour exploitation, and the fact that there is an inertia of the ACT, regarding the monitoring of these situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u244	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u245	The problem is clearly lack of supervision and not permission to enter in various situations. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u246	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u247	Mr President, Mr André Coelho Lima, first of all, I congratulate you on the subject and the comprehensive intervention you have brought us. The honourable Member went to a number of issues within the same area and would even say that his statement has a common point, which is Minister Eduardo Cabrita. It is indeed a matter of the greatest importance and, in this case, I would say it is a « premence» which rhymes with « incompetence », to find another rhyme on this subject. I agree with most of the things that you have said about Odemira, the SEF issue and the celebration issue. Starting with the parties, it's very simple. Mr President of the Republic is quite right when he says that what happened at the parties was that who should prevent it did not prevent it. It was as simple as that! Who should prevent, inform and organize didn't. This was the main problem, regardless of the problems that may have had with the followers, the difficulties of the police, etc. in this case, the failure is obvious. But we could still add to this things, such as, for example, the anti-smoking gorges, a SIRESP (Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal) without a two-month contract of the fire season, the denial of illegal immigration routes to the Algarve. Finally, we could add a lot more to the subjects that you have brought. In terms of question, perhaps I would focus on an issue, Mr President, which is the question of the SEF, because I agree with the idea brought right now, in the previous question, that the problem of many of these workers is a problem of supervision. It is a problem of supervision, it is an organizational problem and it is a problem of the state, which must be present. But if someone in the State has been present over these years if someone in the State has done investigations against illegal traffic networks, if someone in the State has raised proceedings, who has been? It was precisely the SEF. Therefore, it is curious that, in my view, it was a failure of the government — which was the way the government dealt with the case of that horrible and barbaric murder of Ukrainian citizen Ihor Homeniuk — if it had also taken advantage of dismantling the SEF with the obvious intention of protecting the minister's head. I ask you whether or not you share this view. It's just that, to me, it was very clear. The goal was always the same: to keep the minister, to happen what happened. In this regard, we have a mistake, because the SEF, among other things, is the only institution, honourable Member, which has a common European point of contact. Dismantling him because I don't know how many cops, it's gonna be a mess! Who will deal with Frontex (European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation on External Borders)? Oh, my God! It's gonna be a mess!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u248	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u249	Who will deal with the European point of contact? Oh, my God! Finally, I would like to ask the honourable Member whether he does not think this was a mistake and if he does not consider that at least this matter should be brought to Parliament because it is obviously a matter of exclusive reservation of the Assembly. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u250	Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u251	Mr President, I would like to welcome Mr André Coelho Lima on the subject of the debate and to ask him a few questions. Of course, Mr President, in his speech — perhaps not by these words — he said that we were facing a problem because there was a government bet, by changing the legislation, to bring more people to our country. I would like to ask you whether to bring more foreign, more immigrant people to our country is a problem for Mr Deputy. I would also like to ask you something that has to do with the following: 95 % of the complaints about the SEF are related to the permit for the residence visa, i.e. the exceptional residence permit, due to the delay in issuing this visa. We would like to know whether, in your opinion, the Government should have already created faster mechanisms for the issue of these visas. We agree that there should be a broad debate on what follows in the restructuring of the SEF. We would like to ask you if you do not think that in this restructuring for the new service of immigrants and asylum, the government should clearly and clearly opt for a logic of taking advantage of the knowledge of these professionals, because in the fight against trafficking in human beings we well know the work that the SEF has done and we still know that there is at this stage the transition of proceedings under investigation in the SEF to another criminal police body. Does he not consider that the government should issue a transitional standard to ensure that those processes that have begun to be investigated by the SEF are, of course, investigated to the end? It's just that we're talking about trafficking in human beings, we're talking about saving lives, and we can't lose any day in this matter. We therefore believe that the government should be clear in its position and we would like to know the position of the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u252	In reply, Mr André Coelho Lima of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u253	Mr President, I begin by addressing Mr António Filipe, telling him that he has made a set of considerations and has not asked any question, which reminds me. I tell you the following: when you arrive at this Parliament, I have learned to respect some people, some of the Members of the different parties. Mr. Deputy is one of them. I will prefer to keep that idea instead of responding to your attempt to provoke it, which, in me, rises in the courage of my indifference. [[Congratulations from PSD Member Duarte Marques.]] Then I will answer Mr Telmo Correia, who asked more concrete questions, telling him that the reform of the SEF, the restructuring of the SEF, an intervention in a sovereignty area must come to Parliament irrespective of what the Constitution says. Moreover, this is the practice, with one exception in all these years of democracy, which was at the PUC ( Single Point of Contact ), the only change to the internal security law which did not come to Parliament. Still, it was a specific change. The rest has always come to Parliament and it is supposed to be so, because, in the same way that the defence amendments have a two-thirds shield for approval, this area is identical in terms of sovereignty, because it is not the military area, but it is the internal security area, it is the civilian and also militarized police area, which obviously has this support, as I said, not only for the debate and the contributions of the different parties, but above all to ensure conditions of perenniality to legislation, which is the duty of all of us. As far as restructuring could have been to save the Minister and how it dealt with Odemira, in fact, by not weaving great considerations, I don't know what else is needed to make the Prime Minister understand that something is going on in this folder. That's what I tried to say in my speech. Something that is not normal and cannot be normal happens in managing this folder. As soon as this continues with the doctrine of irresponsibility, responsibility falls on those who lead the government, which is, of course, Mr. Prime Minister. To Mrs Bebiana Cunha, whom I thank for the question put, I mean, very briefly, the following: bringing more people is not a problem. What is important to us is that people entering Portugal come under the same conditions as those coming from other Schengen countries. It has often happened in Portugal that residence permits were allowed without the fulfilment of formalities and requirements, and well, always through the Office of the Minister of Internal Administration or the Director-General of the SEF. It was an exception that became the rule. And it is important that when we move from exception to rule, we know what conditions we can give people who come and want to work in Portugal. It can't be alone, as I said, for the photograph. This has everything to do with the changes in the SEF, it has everything to do with the aprioristic emptying of the SEF. This is because then, all that you have mentioned, all this experience and the knowledge of professionals, is no longer useful and becomes the SEF in a purely administrative entity, forgetting the police functions that you clearly have. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u254	For clarifications, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the comprehensive political declaration that Mr André Coelho Lima has made, I will highlight the situation of the SEF, which continues to be at the centre of attention and will gain more up-to-date in view of the gradual reopening of the air and sea movement, the expansion of travel, whether tourism is business, which can therefore enhance criminal activities. However, he did not mention in his speech on this issue an element that would be important. It did not acknowledge that as a government, the PSD did nothing to value the workers of the SEF, before it sought, as in the entire Public Administration, to devalue their careers, to cut their wages and rights, to degrade their working conditions. On the other hand, the PSD does not refer to another important aspect, which is the action against immigrants, against all those who have sought, in Portugal, a job to survive and improve their lives and theirs, the increasingly demanding option of stigmatizing those who contribute their efforts to the national economy, which will, in this general environment, have created the favourable conditions for some to feel at will to practice abuses and violations of the law that must be directly removed, as is the case with Odemira. Does it not seem to you, Mr President, that the response to problems in the SEF, in addition to restructuring or non-restructuring, is more in the use of SEF agents, their wages and working conditions, their rights and even their training? Is the PSD available for this or, when you talk about increasing the salaries of workers of the SEF and the Public Administration, in general, as they demand today in the strike convened by the Common Front, will take your hands to the head and say that you don't even think that?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u256	To request clarification, Mrs Romualda Fernandes of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u257	Mr President, I welcome Mr André Coelho Lima, who has brought us a thematic multiplicity under a common denominator, which is like attacking MAI.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u258	I didn't even have to! He takes care of it himself!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u259	But, given the time available, I will concentrate my question on restructuring the SEF. We are all aware of the painful baldness that immigrant citizens are going to obtain authorizations and renewals of residence and family reunification titles due to lack of response from the SEF. We cannot ignore the need to change the way this service relates to immigrants. This change is necessarily due to the change in the organizational paradigm of the Public Administration in the relationship with the person of the immigrant, who cannot be seen priori as a criminal suspect.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u260	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u261	The current organic structure of the SEF is bicephalal, involving police functions and administration functions of authorization and documentation of immigrants. The Government's programme in good time proposed the separation of police and administrative functions, focusing on the simplification of administrative procedures, the authorisation and renewal of residence permits, family reunification, shortening the processing of documentation and creating a citizenship card for immigrants. The availability of this card will allow its holders to access a dematerialization of service via the Internet, improving relations between public bodies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u262	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u263	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the members of the Socialist Party's board consider that the separation of police and administrative functions represents an effective gain both for documentation and for matters of surveillance and crime. I would like to ask you if you agree with this separation and, failing to agree, what is the alternative that it is not to leave everything more or less in it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u264	In reply, Mr André Coelho Lima of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions you have asked me. Mrs Mariana Silva, Mr Greens, who asks whether it seems to us that the answer is in the appreciation of the SEF agents, I would like to say that obviously I understand where she wants to go, but we agree with what she is asking us. The response is in the enhancement of the SEF, regardless of the specific position of the SEF agents, until in the structure of the Internal Security System SEF agents are top-class agents, as it is known therefore one of the problems we now have is to know where those SEF agents will be integrated which, having a higher category, will now be distributed in particular by the PSP and the GNR ( National Republican Guard ), which is where the Government intends to atomize the competences of the SEF. What matters is the following, and with this I reply to Mrs Romualda Fernandes, who I take advantage of to greet in a special way—and I say only that. The honourable Member has asked me the question if I agree with this separation. Don't! We disagreed with this separation. That is why we have repeatedly said so. We think that it should be discussed here, but, no matter how much, what we propose is that the Internal Security System, all of it, has a common hat, which divides, yes, police functions of administrative functions, but not insulating and stigmatizing a police or police force, in particular. Our position is very clear. There are many administrative functions in PSP and GNR that don't have to be with police officers. The problem that exists in the SEF of separation between police and administrative functions also exists in other police forces, does not exist only in the SEF. What can't be done is something called "reform" but which is no more than a form of protection of the Minister (yes! ) which, deep down, is confined to a force, which is being emptied. In fact, I want to tell you the following, Mrs Deputy, by asking a proclamation question, because you cannot answer me. There is an order by the Minister of Internal Administration to say, among other things, that the Service of Foreigners and Asylums ( SEA ) should be designated as the National Unit ETIAS ( European Travel Information Authorization System ), succeeding the SEF ; that the SEA is a national entity that manages the technical components of the National Uniform Interface ( NIU ) ; that the SEA is the entity responsible for the management and maintenance of the physical spaces and their infrastructure, and out here. My question is: do you not feel disappointed that you have a minister and a government that, through an organization, the SEA, which is inorganic, because there is only one resolution of the Council of Ministers, which is a resolution that expresses political options, is assigning objective powers to an inorganic body? Oh, my God! This is a misunderstanding not only by Parliament, but by law itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u266	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u267	Therefore, all this is no way to act in the internal security area, in the SEF or any other area. We need to stop and act with the sense of responsibility that this kind of matter demands from us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u268	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have thus reached the end of the first item on our agenda, political declarations, and we will enter the second point, which consists in the joint debate, in general, of the Proposal for a Law No 88 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1024 on open data and reuse of information from the public sector and draft Law No 840 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Promotes further provision of open data relating to public sector information ( Third amendment to Law No 26 / 2016 of 22 August ). To introduce the debate, I have the floor by the Government, the Secretary of State for Innovation and Administrative Modernization, Maria de Fátima Fonseca, whom I take advantage of to greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law submitted here is intended to transpose the Directive of ( EU ) 2019 / 1024 on open data and reuse of public sector information which repeals Directive 2003 / 98 / EC, the European Parliament and the Council with effect from 17 July 2021. The latter, as Directive 2003 / 4 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, is, as we know, transposed into the national legal order by Law No 26 / 2016 of 22 August 2016 which established a new legal regime for regulating access to administrative information and the reuse of administrative documents, and therefore the Government proposes that such transposition be carried out through the amendment to that law. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a definition of open data is legally enshrined in the proposal. This consecration has legal value, practical, but also symbolic, because it represents more evidence of the ongoing digital transition process and of the profound transformation that involves society and the economy. The open data represent a very important subset of the vast information domain produced by the public sector and constitute an indispensable component of open administration promotion policies, because they combine, due to the corresponding constitutional principle, the principles of transparency, participation and collaboration. The vast amount of data generated by the Public Administration in many areas of activity has a potential of use relevant to the State, being essential in the formulation of sustained, more informed and efficient political decisions. But they are also crucial to civil society and the business world. The evolution to a data-based society and economy shows that they are a valuable resource that can benefit society, as well as provide for the design of innovative products, through new services and applications, based on the use, aggregation or combination of data, thus freeing the potential for the economic development of digital. As is mentioned in the directive that is being transposed, the amount of data generated at the global level has increased exponentially, also witnessing a continuous evolution of data analysis, exploitation and processing technologies. In order to leverage latent economic and social opportunities, it is important to encourage the provision of public sector documents and data in an open format guaranteeing interoperability, reuse and accessibility. This incentive is particularly important in the case of dynamic data, which are regularly updated and whose value depends on its immediate availability. For these cases, but not only, it is also encouraged to provide open data through application programming interfaces in order to facilitate the development of applications for the Internet, mobile devices and cloud. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in summary and in order to fully explore the potential of public sector information for society and the national and European economy, and in accordance with the directive to be transposed, stand out in this bill: the consecration of portals.gov as the central catalogue of data opened in Portugal, also functioning as an indexing portal of descriptions of data sets hosted in other open data portals; the increase in the supply of public value data for reuse purposes, including data from public undertakings and bodies carrying out research with public resources; the restriction on new forms of exclusivity agreements to avoid distortions to free competition; the freeness of high-value data sets, formalizing them as well as open data; the provision of exceptions to the principle of charging fees, which is, as a rule, limited to marginal costs and the incentive to the provision of all data in a way legible by machine. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The intelligent use of data, including its processing through artificial intelligence applications, necessarily articulated with the protection of public interest values, such as security or personal data protection, is already having an effective transformation effect in all sectors of the economy. But the potential value of open data is immeasurable and its role in society is increasingly highlighted: in the emergence of new sources and business models, in particular for startups and small and medium-sized enterprises; in the creation of new jobs; in the reduction of costs; in efficiency and productivity gains for public and private entities; in the development of technology; in the reduction of environmental impacts; in the most integrated public policies able to respond to the major challenges of our time and in improving responses in crisis scenarios, as has happened during the pandemic. in this context, the European Union identifies open data as a pillar for the development of the European economy and foresees economic growth resulting from its reuse, estimated at EUR 194 billion by 2030. The adoption of this bill, combined with an ambitious national data strategy and active dissemination and reuse policies, will be a decisive impetus not only for the digital transformation of the Public Administration but, above all, to realize a fair, inclusive, green and intelligent digital transition, which, in line with the European project and the sustainable development goals of the United Nations Agenda 2030, contributes decisively to economic and social development. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u270	You have the floor for a request for clarification, Mrs Marcia Passos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr.a and Mr. State Secretaries, the system of access to administrative and environmental information and the issues inherent in the reuse of administrative documents are today the subject of our attention. At the internal level, the subject is dealt with in Law No 26 / 2016 of 22 August, which is also the result of European guidelines, in particular two Directives of 2003. What are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? We are talking about matters relating to open data and the reuse of public sector information. The clarity must begin here and I therefore realise that today, for example, we are talking about information on public transport schedules, information on State purchases, be it schools, health units, municipal chambers or associations, statistical information on the service of public services, such as the number of patients attended by a hospital unit. They are just simple examples of what public sector information is and it seems clear to everyone that this information should be accessible and should be publicly accessible to all society. The demands of this advertising have become on the agenda of the European Union, through the directive we are examining today, and therefore also on the agenda of the various Member States. This has two consequences: public access to information and the possibility of reuse by third parties, public or private entities. Now, combining this need for public access and reuse by third parties with issues related to the right to privacy of citizens, with legal issues and security issues is a challenge—and it is a huge challenge! And it is this challenge that we believe the government has not answered in a completely satisfactory way. The bill we discussed ended up wanting to go too far, beyond the directive itself, and perhaps that was the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u272	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u273	In fact, the conjugation of these solutions is difficult and what is at stake is the conjugation between the dignity of the human being, in his relationship with the State, and the public access to all this information and all this data. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u274	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Secretary of State for Innovation and Administrative Modernization.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Marcia Passos, thank you very much for the question that has been put to me. As with all the challenges posed to our legal order, when reality changes — and digital transition is certainly one of the major challenges for our legal order — States have tried to address these challenges in a balanced manner, reconciling security guarantees of privacy, with absolute rigour on the privacy of people and other public interests that must be guaranteed, with the imperative to promote the availability, use and reuse of open data. What the Government is trying to do in this proposal that it presents to the Assembly of the Republic, which will decide sovereignly, is very simple.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u276	The Secretary of State has already exceeded her time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u277	Mr. President, I'm sorry, I'm done. This is a very simple matter: it is a matter of ensuring the articulation of legal diplomas whose amendment is now proposed with the other diplomas already in force in our legal system, in particular the law guaranteeing the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation (GPR) in our country. from our point of view, this balance and this articulation are duly guaranteed in the proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u278	You have the word, for the presentation of Bill No. 840 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), Mr Fabian Figueiredo, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The extension of the provision of open source public information, i.e. of information produced by public or private entities, easily accessible and at the distance of a click, is essential for the promotion of more transparency in relation to decisions taken by public authorities, a more informed active citizenship and an environment conducive to associative and economic innovation. We are talking about democratizing access to social, economic, legal or environmental studies, statistical data or cultural content which, despite being detained by the State, see their access, generally complex, by citizens and citizens hampered by the existence of bureaucratic barriers which are hardly transponible or simply not digitalized. The proposed law submitted by the Government intends to transpose into the national legal order Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1024 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019, proposing to facilitate access to the reuse of public information. Having this purpose in its statement, the articulation of the bill contradicts it in two aspects which we think are fundamental: it provides for excessive deadlines for exclusivity agreements — in the case of fixed cultural resources - in 10 years and in the other cases it does not define even a fixed time limit - and it also proposes a wide range of fees which objectively condition access to and reuse of public information. The draft law of the Left Block aims to establish in the national legal order that the reuse of data is free, that exclusivity agreements are limited to the strictly necessary public interest and for a maximum period of five years, that the standard licence is free, that there is a budgetary reinforcement and technical capacity for the provision of dynamic data and that the Assembly of the Republic is directly involved, from two to two years, in the monitoring of the law. We understand that Portugal must follow the best international practices of democratization in access and reuse of information, producing legislation that has the concern of serving the public interest, innovation, citizenship, rather than introducing new obstacles to its access and availability in the form of fees or exclusivity agreements. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u280	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: At this liberal minute, I wanted to start by recalling that there is no safeguard of individual freedom without scrutiny and that there is no scrutiny without free access to data. Therefore, the principle of open public administration data is fundamental, both in the prevention of abuse and in the diagnosis and resolution of problems. The COVID-19 pandemic was a good example of this. Initially, the data were not, if well remembered, made available and even a draft resolution presented by the Liberal Initiative was rejected by the central bloc. Today, everyone acknowledges that the disclosure of these data, openly, was essential for better understanding of the problem, if it came to control it and finally resolving it. This proposal for a government law that we are discussing today, in providing for the payment of fees to access data, is contrary to the principle of open data. More: the proposal is contrary to the spirit of the directive which aims to transpose, which clearly establishes a principle of data free of charge. The limitation is intentional because the Government expressly amends the provision which determines that at the time of reuse only a fee covering production and shipping costs may be charged, from this tax limit to a « duty, in principle ». This adds to the provisions on possible exemptions that have really torn the door to arbitrariness. The title of this bill is therefore wrong: it is not on open data, it is on data « on request ».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u282	Mr José Magalhães of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is a remarkable day because the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic assumes the responsibilities of Parliament with regard to a national data strategy — something we need to talk more — properly aligned with the corresponding European strategy. The proposal comes at the right time and takes advantage of the work of many months of some of our best experts, with whom I had, in 2016, at the invitation of Secretary of State Fernanda Rollo, to contact and work when the open science initiative was prepared. Within this proposal, we are discussing things far broader than open science, we are discussing the entire galaxy of entities with public information, which is why I would like to tell the Secretary of State Fatima Fonseca that has a formidable task ahead and has all our support to carry it out successfully. On the one hand, we have European directives, and even regulations, which greatly facilitates our work—we do not need resolutions, we have regulations. We have European regulations governing fundamental aspects such as data protection, the GDPR, much talked about, but also the least spoken but also essential non-personal data regime, i.e. Regulation ( EU ) 2018 / 1807 of 14 November, which guarantees a radical change in the picture in this area. This is a debate that requires pedagogy and legislative consecration of new concepts, and we did not dream of them when we did the Second Constitutional Review and expressly consecrated the concept of open administration. We were in a pre-digital era, on the eve of the digital era, but it was basically paper and a bunch of diskettes. Today, confusion is easy: fortunately, the means are unbelievably wider, but there are such confusions as « the environmental data of my street are not personal data, although they concern people, animals and objects that move like machines». When we placed thousands and thousands of pages of parliamentary debates on the Internet from the Constitution of 1822 to the present day, we deposited in the net names and names and names and names. But imagine what it would be like to deposit three bridges between parentheses, i.e. Mr AG — perhaps Almeida Garrett! — you asked Mr FG — you know what! - on the subject... that would make history a joke, and that can't be. Obviously, there are zealots, and I'll talk about them. Whoever is at www.dados.gov.pt finds a sample of what we have already achieved. We need to get more, there is a European ranking, we need to improve our position on the ranking and one day of those who go to the Transparency Portal will see something never seen. In this House we are always looking for government data, through requests, to know how to carry out the expenditure of the State budget and now we will have the PRR and also, in the future, the State budget with its fluent implementation. Well, in order to organize all this in the context of a data tsunami — I understand Mrs Marcia Passos’ question — it is necessary to organize the Public Administration and define procedures for all this to happen. It will not happen magically and will declare itself with resistance or even with some inculturation in the transparency and philosophy of open data. Considering that we have been discussing this matter, we felt it would be very limiting to attempting to inject this organizational vaccine against secrecy in the architecture of the law of access to public documents, which is a pre-digital law, successively reworked. It is too much reworked, we cleared the directive on environmental information, superdensing that part; then we cleared it a section on reuse, so the law already has a very different architecture than the initial one. I think she's more and more like him to shoot a control tower at Humberto Delgado Airport in the courtyard of Pena Palace in Sintra. So it's something that doesn't play anymore! We have the possibility, in our specialty, of doing the necessary surgery. Nor should we want to fatten the master's degree with rules of regulatory character, because they would not fit, and we must put away the spirit of the Zealots. We know how they in the first century appealed to violence to combat Roman domination and ended up chacinated in Massada. And they didn't take much, much further to the cause of the Jewish people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u284	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u285	So, Mr President, let us do this debate with serenity, with the Zealots calmly watching in Massada. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u286	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if there are no more entries, we will move to the back. [[Pause.]] Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group was signed. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u287	Mr President, it was even a distraction, there was no intention of us not registering or delaying registration. I trusted you would have done it by now. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I would like to say that, from our point of view — and without further consideration or intention processes, what kind of things we do not do and which is not justified in any way — the intention of the Government on the intention of transposing European matters on this issue corresponds to a globally positive intention and which, in any way, we can follow. Public access to this type of data, the possibility of sharing it, its transparency, the use of startups and its use for scientific purposes, globally, is a commendable objective and to which we would obviously not have much to argue and much less to oppose. Moreover, this access to information is essential for proper decision-making. I would stress the need for so-called 'exclusivity agreements' to always have transparency and possible and public knowledge of their existence, of the rules and reasons they impose. Having said that, and as far as we could see, I would, however, not fail to follow some of the reservations we have found to this diploma and that, from our point of view, could make some sense. For example, the Advocates' Order tells us that the exclusion of reuse, that is, precisely the cases of exclusion, should be as specific as possible. It seems to us to be a correct and meaningful criticism, otherwise we could be invoking the interests of State, the interests of security or something else. If it is not specific, it becomes an arbitrary decision in some way, because we do not know in which cases, in fact, that rule is going to apply or not. The CNPD ( National Data Protection Commission ), whose assumptions in this matter are known and it is historic that we do not always follow, has as its main analysis the idea that the government, in trying to articulate the regimes, ends up creating a confusion of regimes. It is a criticism that should also be considered, which should be evaluated. They are materials to reflect, to evaluate, are materials that we will certainly be able to see and analyze in the field of expertise. I conclude as I began by saying that, from our point of view, we do not see that there is a major problem and we think, including, that the intention under this project is positive for the public interest, for the interests of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u288	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to leave only four notes on this bill which transposes a European directive. The first relates to the anonymisation of data protection. We continue to have, in this regime which transposes the directive, a very great difficulty in ensuring the effective anonymisation of data protection. This is pointed out by the various opinions that are together with this proposal and it is something that we must at least ensure. There are two aspects that we are particularly concerned about. One of them is the reuse of data and its foundation and in which cases the data can be reused. The directive and the proposed law are very much below the legal requirements. The confidentiality of statistical data is another very important element, because, within what is a statistical data, there can be a lot of information, some anonymous, another not so easily anonymized, and it is essential that these data be protected. Finally, and perhaps the most important of this criticism, exclusivity. In which cases there may be exclusivity in the allocation of a particular license of use is something that is not quite explicit. In other words, it is necessary to know under what conditions such exclusive license can be attributed and whether or not we are creating a species of a monopoly in relation to access, use, redistribution and processing of information.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u290	Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group is included for an intervention. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law submitted by the Government on open data and reuse of public sector information, and the draft law of the Left Block, which essentially copies the content of the Government proposal, are proposals that, instead of creating appropriate rules for the use of public data and documents on the basis of public interest objectives, prefer to create a broad business field through the commercialization of those data and documents, without even taking care of such relevant aspects as the protection of personal data. The CFP considers that access to open data and public administration documents should be at the service of citizens and public interest. We follow some of the objectives expressed in the preamble to the bill, when it states that "Import(...) ensure greater dissemination and access to data of public interest, encouraging the sharing of these data, to better inform citizens, design more effective public policies, provide quality services that respond to people's needs and encourage transparency, re-use for scientific purposes and knowledge generation...". However, the real objective of this Government initiative is another one and is also referred to in the preamble, when it refers to "the emergence of new sources and business models" or increasing "the provision of dynamic data and data sets with particularly high economic impact, promoting competition and transparency in the information market. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is this mercantilization and business of data and administrative documents that motivates the opposition of the PCP to these proposals by the Government and the Left Block, especially when they leave personal data without due protection, as alerted to the National Data Protection Commission. If there were any doubts, Article 19. it makes clear the intention of the Government, by determining that administrative documents whose access is authorized may be reused for commercial purposes. The proposals of the Government and the BE provide for rules which, in practice, go beyond the objectives of scientific research and its public interest in the interests of business. Both proposals place the State at the service of economic groups, place the State subordinate to the business that is intended to be done with the administrative data, with the so-called 'information market'. On the other hand, the proposals do not take the necessary measures to ensure the protection of personal data. The National Data Protection Commission draws attention to the risks arising from the proposals regarding personal data and the legal regime of free reuse and anonymous data and the risk of re-identification of its holders. In its opinion, it concludes that « the proposed law contradicts the GDPR by presenting a scheme that does not differ from the reusable nominal documents of freely reusable data and open data », when personal data should be excluded from this scheme. The opinion of the National Data Protection Commission further states that public bodies should ensure "careful processes for the selection of anonymous and reusable information, on behalf of the ‘ development of the data economy ’ or ‘ acceleration of scientific progress and innovation ’ if they are sacrificing what remains of human privacy and dignity in their relationship with public bodies, especially when they are in a state of subjection to their authority or in a state of lack of support. Do not keep on seeking. ” the opinions received result in a number of concerns which should be considered, in particular by the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents, the National Data Protection Commission or the Superior Council of the Magistracy. The objections we have identified in these two proposals justify our vote against and we will insist on the speciality to correct the more serious aspects of its content. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u292	With no further entries for intervention, we will move on to the third item on the agenda, which is generally discussed in the Proposal for a Law No 96 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the tax regime of the organizers of the end of the UEFA Champions League 2020 / 2021 competition. To open the debate, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendes. [[Pause.]] I am sorry, but before that, I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Innovation and Administrative Modernization to close point 2 of the agenda. It would always be useful for the Services to indicate the times as soon as the intervention is over, to know what time is left, and not when the closure begins. But this is a discussion that is already many months or even years old. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In view of the set of interventions made, I would like to highlight the importance of data and the regulation of its use, which is, for all of us, quite clearly. In addition to what I said in the initial intervention, I would like to stress that this bill is in line with the commitments made by the Government, from the outset in its programme, but also in the Innovation and Modernisation Strategy of the State and Public Administration, in particular for the implementation of measures provided for in the objective « Manage the data ecosystem with security and transparency ». This objective was also considered in the Recovery and Resilience Plan in order to increase the governance and safe reuse capacity of public administration data by the set of entities already linked by the data protection regime, create a true national open data ecosystem involving all relevant areas and entities and strengthen the service www.dados.gov.pt, as the gateway to this ecosystem, stimulating its use. I cannot fail to renew the importance of this open data portal of the Public Administration, stressing that the portal, created in 2011, has been extensively renewed precisely three years ago, and records a 97 % increase in the number of sets published since the beginning of 2020 and also a significant increase in new data reuses, of which is the recent More Transparency portal. But despite the increase in the maturity of open data policies, reflected, for example, in the rise of 28 % of Portugal's score in the 2020 review of the European Commission's Digital Economy and Society Index, the Government considers it necessary to adopt a national strategy for open data—in which it is working—not only aligned with other strategies and policies at national level, including the training of people of artificial intelligence and cybersecurity, but also aligned with the European data strategy, thus contributing to the development and competitiveness of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u294	You have to finish, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u295	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The adoption of this bill, following a discussion, will surely live, now begun, will lead to the re-use of open, safe, responsible and valuable data for the different quadrants of society, contributing to a digital transition that promotes a fair and inclusive society, a more integrated and efficient public administration, a greener and innovative economy, an even more informed and active citizenship and, consequently, a more robust and participatory democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u296	The joint debate on the proposed Law No 88 / XIV / 2 is thus closed. a ( GOV ) and the Bill No. 840 / XIV / 2. a ( BE). Mrs. Members, we are going to enter the third item on the agenda, with the general discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 96 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the tax regime of the organizers of the end of the UEFA Champions League 2020 / 2021 competition. For an intervention, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u297	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we bring today to the Assembly of the Republic aims to regulate the tax regime for the completion of the Champions League, for the first time, in the city of Porto. It is good news for Portugal, particularly for Porto, and it is also good news for sport that, once again, we can carry out an initiative of this nature in Portugal. The tax system we bring is presented on the basis of the reciprocity that exists among the various countries that join UEFA ( Union of European Football Associations ). Any country that carries out a UEFA competition has this type of tax regime, so, in addition to reciprocity, there is a uniformization of this regime, which is justified by the simplification it represents so that clubs, players and technical teams can be taxed in their state of residence without having to act on conventions to avoid double taxation. Therefore, in consecrating in the bill the tax exemptions at IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and at IRC, what the Government is asking Parliament to approve again—as it has done over the past two decades, when there was this kind of competition in Portugal—is that a simplification mechanism is being implemented in the taxation of teams, clubs, players and all the agents around this event. An event that is important to the country and, once again, a demonstration so that Portugal can continue to receive more and more tourists safely. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u298	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : Today we are discussing a PPL (proposal for a law) which aims to establish a specific tax regime within the framework of the end of the UEFA Champions League 2020 / 2021 competition, which will take place in Porto on May 29. As we know, this end was previously planned to be held in Turkey, Istanbul, but in particular due to difficulties raised by the British Government to all members of the finalist clubs, Manchester City and Chelsea, travelling to Turkey, UEFA decided to transfer the game to Dragon Stadium in Porto. As we also know, Turkey is going through a very difficult phase in the fight against the pandemic, currently facing about 20,000 cases per day, which has led England to put it on the red list. First of all, it is important to examine whether or not the realization of this event brings positive aspects and opportunities to Portugal from an economic and tourist point of view. from the point of view of the CDS, this initiative undoubtedly brings very positive aspects, but by refocusing the intervention in the proposed law, Mr Secretary of State, when examining it, it is found that it applies a very similar regime to the regimes applied in the framework of the Euro 2004, the finals of the Champions Leagues which took place in 2014 and 2020 and the European Supertax, in 2019. In a simplified way, what we are dealing with is a non-taxation of organizing entities, associations of participating countries and clubs, of sports agents who are not considered to be resident in national territory. Having said that, the CDS cannot fail to make a criticism, because it is unfortunate that the Government has this tax sensitivity for non-resident entities and does not have it for residents, since the astronomical burden of taxes on families and businesses has suffocated the Portuguese and estranges economic activity. Since we're also talking about football, I can't stop referring to two more criticisms. First of all, the absence of planning by the Internal Administration, the Lisbon Chamber, the DGS, the Secretary of State of Sport, regarding the celebrations of the title of Sporting, last week. They push each other's guilt and nobody's responsible, it's Portugal at its worst. But, note, the government allows there to be public in the Dragon Stadium at the end of the Champions, but at the end of the Portuguese Cup, which will take place next Sunday, between two Portuguese clubs, Benfica and Braga, the Portuguese Government does not allow there to be public in the stadium. That is, the English can go to the stadium at the end of the Champions, but the Portuguese can't go to the end of the Portuguese Cup. Not even 5000 followers, Mr. Secretary of State. Finally, I wanted to note that this year we have been spared advertisements with a pump and circumstances on the part of Mr Prime Minister and, fortunately, we have not had to hear say, as last year, that this end was a deserved award for health professionals. Fortunately, this year, we didn't have to hear this. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State : Like the previous proposals, it will not be impermissible by the CDS either, but we cannot stop making criticism. In other words, Portuguese can't go to the end of the Portuguese Cup because there was no planning at the sports parties, but the English, about 15 000, can go to the end of the Champions League. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u300	Mr Alberto Fonseca of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It was known last week the UEFA decision to carry out in Portugal, already next week, the end of the Champions League, more specifically in Porto, in the beautiful Dragon Stadium,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u302	... stage already used to regularly receive great football shows. It is very positive news for Portugal, in several respects, that the Portuguese Football Federation deserves a word of appreciation, not only for all the efforts it has made as well as for the organizational capacity of this type of event, which is not only recognized by us as by UEFA itself. It is a final one that, despite confronting two English teams, will also have Portuguese players as protagonists, which is to us the reason for additional pride. An event of this size, which reaches millions of people, by nature, far beyond the borders of our country, significantly projects Portugal at a crucial time when many Europeans are planning their summer holidays, making our country an even more appealing destination. The proposal which the Government brings to us, at a point scheduled urgently, is the proposal for tax exemption to apply to the income associated with this event, a condition, indeed, compulsory for the same to be done in Portugal or anywhere else. It is a condition that we believe to be proportional to Portugal's projection and publicity around the world. The desired economic effect began to feel immediately after the announcement with the exponential rise of hotel reservations. It is therefore unequivocal that this event has in our country, in a sector so whipped by the pandemic, which is why the PSD is not going to oppose, and also because the loss of tax revenue is not at stake. However, it is ironic that we are discussing a tax exemption for non-residents when residents bear the greatest tax burden of all time. This Government proposal may be a response to those who accuse it of not reducing, or even exempting, income tax. However, this is obviously not as much as the Portuguese want. at a time when many Portuguese saw their incomes diminished, what they expected was a response by the government that would relieve the tax burden — most of all, I repeat — which, even in this pandemic period, did not stop increasing. What our companies wanted was incentives and tax benefits that stimulate investment to leverage the desired and necessary growth of the economy. It was this kind of proposal that the Portuguese wanted the government to bring the debate urgently. Still, as I said, the loss of revenue is not involved and this event allows a high projection not only of Portugal as of the North and Porto region. Because the country is far more than Lisbon, it is more than fair that this time it is the city of Porto to receive this end, compensating in some way the cancellation of the end of the European Supertaça 2020, against which Mr. President of the Porto Chamber had been — and well! — insurgent. I would also like to appeal to Mr. President of the Port Chamber, although for these days he may have greater concerns, so that he is attentive to the e-mail box, it will not happen in Porto what happened in Lisbon last week. In this regard, I also appeal to the Government, represented here by the honourable Members. State Secretaries, although not guardianship, so that we do not repeat in port the unfortunate events that we have seen a week ago in Lisbon. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u303	Let the lack of planning of the government and the municipal chamber not spoil the party that is sport, the party that must be football. Ignoring the PSP opinions, the Government is solely responsible for the unfortunate events of last week, for which neither Sporting nor its followers can be held accountable. In this regard, Mr President, allow me to use these last 19 seconds to congratulate Sporting, his leadership, technical team, players and supporters for the well-deserved title won days ago. An example of work, dedication, consistency and seriousness, with the bet on training, which should inspire us a lot. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u304	Mr. Member, I don't want to get into controversy, regionals or clubs, but I wanted to! Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u305	Soccer jokes aside, I express my solidarity with Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, ladies and gentlemen. Members : This coincidence is given today that we are discussing in Parliament for the second consecutive year the allocation of tax bills to UEFA and football clubs, due to the end of the Champions League in our country, precisely on the day when sports leaders and clubs are being searched by the Judicial Police for suspicions of tax fraud and money laundering in connection with transfers involving two clubs. It has already been said that in March the NAP questioned the Minister of Finance about the suspicions involved in these transfers, more precisely about the exact value of the loss of tax revenue that they entailed, about the ongoing investigations and, of course, about the structural measures to be considered to curb the opacity and crime associated with these businesses. At the time, the government responded by taking a comfortable refuge in the figure of the tax seal and stood there in such round responses as the will to act in these areas seems to us. This lack of will is also evident in the proposal that has been brought to us today. If, on the one hand, for the suspects of the custom, we again have millions and complacency, on the other, for those who really need only coughs, labor laws or any other budgetary constraints that prevent us from investing in absolutely structural matters for the country. They've been talked about here too, even though the gentlemen. Government members are not responsible for guardianship, differences of criteria, with the absence of planning to allow the championship to be celebrated here, for example, in contrast with the Champions, in which we do not, indeed, allow them to come to our country to celebrate as there no longer exist the health criteria that limited the holidays in Lisbon. Back at the heart of this proposal, tax bills to UEFA and football clubs seem to us, at least, immoral, especially in a context where the country is experiencing socio-economic difficulties, also as a result of the health crisis, where we have failures, collective dismissals, unemployment at worrying levels, reduction and loss of income. Having now the Government and the Socialist Party say, on the one hand, that there is no money to give support to those who need the most and those who are underprotected and, on the other hand, that there are fiscal bills for the Champions, it seems strange to us, at least, that Mr. Members of the Government here present. Moreover, because of the terms in which it is also designed and the effects it has on the market, it seems to us that this scheme can be translated into a selective tax measure, i.e. that it may also violate the criteria laid down in Article 107 ( 1 ). that of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and thus constitute State aid, also unlawful. Even more serious is that the government uses the argument that we should give this tax stamp to the Champions League because UEFA so requires. However, as this argument is not new, we have not been able to grant how the government goes after UEFA's's little cry'. Certainly there will be no regrets to come at this time, which would be much happier if there were a resolution. In fact, they will not have the support of the NAP to avert what could be the diversion of money to major investments for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u306	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u307	I really am concluding, Mr President. The NAP will not vote in favour, quite the contrary, we will vote against this bill. So, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, we appeal that there will be no tax bills in the future for the interests installed, to the detriment of the interests of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u308	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Brás of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We have here for debate and vote a bill from the Government, which establishes the tax regime of the organizers of the end of the UEFA Champions League 2020 / 2021 competition. This bill, adopted in the Council of Extraordinary Ministers of the past 18, aims to create a temporary tax regime for the realization in Portugal, more specifically in the city of Porto, as already mentioned, of the end of the Champions League 2020 - 2021. This tax regime applies to the organizers of the so-called football competition and its participants and is in everything similar to what we approved here about 10 months ago at the end of the 2019-2020 Champions League in Lisbon. It is consistent with the exemption from taxation, within IRS and IRC, of income relating to organisation and participation in the test, provided that taken by non-resident entities in Portuguese territory. Under this scheme, organisational entities, including their representatives and staff, participating football clubs, as well as athletes, technical teams, medical, security and other support staff, are involved. It should be noted that the creation of a special tax system is one of the conditions set by UEFA for choosing the country responsible for the final competition of the Champions League. It is worth noting that we are before entities that are not considered to be residents in national territory, nor do they have a stable establishment here, so the tax dispensation in Portugal could already be ensured, for some types of income, by the application of conventions to avoid double taxation held with the countries of residence of the entities involved. In these cases, the special scheme now proposed for exemption from IRC and IRS ensures, above all, a simplification of procedures, preventing each beneficiary from having to act on its own convention. This is a practice adopted by all countries and also benefits the Portuguese clubs when they participate in this competition. Another of the conditions laid down by UEFA is that of public presence in the stadium, and therefore 12 000 followers are allowed. This number ensures the necessary security conditions, because, as you know, the maximum capacity of the Dragon Stadium exceeds 50 000 people. The UEFA Champions League is an annual football club competition at European level, organised by the Union of European Football Associations and played by European clubs. It is one of the most prestigious tournaments around the world and the most prestigious club competition within the European territory. It is disputed by the teams best rated in their national championships at the previous time and the end of the UEFA Champions League is one of the most seen sporting events around the world, reaching many hundreds of millions of spectators. It is therefore a reason for pride for Portugal to be able to host this competition and to confirm our country as an excellent organizer and an excellent stage for the realization of large-scale and media events. On the other hand, the choice of our country by UEFA confirms that Portugal is a safe country, both in the health field and at all other levels and attests that Portuguese are complying with the indications of the government and the health authorities and that we are presently winning the war against SARS-COV-2. in a country where tourism has the economic weight that we all know it has and at a time when we try to relaunch the economy, the realization of this type of event and its global projection are a remarkable added value for the promotion of the fate of Portugal and to accelerate the economy. The government, UEFA, the country, and in particular the city of Porto, which will be the stage of this great event on the next day, are therefore delighted. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u310	Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u311	Mr President, we have discussed the tax exemption at the end of the Champions League in Portugal — that is what we have discussed, a tax exemption. Portugal has sufficient sovereignty to treat this event, which is a business and business event like any other, and has the obligation to treat this event as another business any would be treated. Now, in this case, that is not what happens. Any of these clubs, which will come to play Portugal at the end of the Champions League, have multi-millionaire business, have owners who are oligarchs in their countries, do business of millions every year and is famous for bypassing any kind of financial fair play. Not long ago, the sports community joined against the realization of an anti-sport competition, the European Superliga, driven only by the financial greed of these super-enterprises, which are some of these major football clubs, and Manchester City and Chelsea, which come here, two of these major clubs that were trying to associate in this way. We are therefore faced with an elite football business, with which European States please relate, establishing for it a system of privilege and a system of tax privilege that is totally unacceptable. Even today, in this plenary, at the beginning of our work, we have discussed, with regard to a political declaration by the CFP, the question of the support for clubs and the delay that these support have had, even in a situation where the Government already has a recommendation adopted in this Parliament to move forward with these support to avoid the shortage in which so many of them live. It is therefore on the same day that we are discussing this situation that we are now called upon to approve a tax exemption or a system of privilege which has been repeatedly approved by this government in the face of such competitions. Don't count on the Left Block for that. We defend that this business is a business like any other—in fact, probably more obscure and with greater darkness—in compliance with the rules to which all companies should be embarrassed. We therefore defend that it is treated as such. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u312	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u313	Mr President, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs: It is appropriate to answer some more technical questions, such as why advertising and sponsorship revenues are also covered by this exemption. If it is true what the Secretary of State says, that is, there is European harmonisation in this area — and there is! — in particular by means of double taxation — and that is true! — it is no longer understood as much because sponsorship and advertising, which is, in particular, carried out in Portuguese territory and where the fact of tax is in Portuguese territory, continue to maintain that exemption. I believe that the Secretary of State has also spoken about this and it was important to clarify this matter. Just as it should have been clarified for a long time why the premiums paid to players do not have a substantial part or at least a minimum part which is retained in the source territory, i.e. in the territory where the competition takes place. And this is not in fact just a government issue, but it is a matter that the Portuguese Government should guard, so that in all competitions there is a share of this income remaining in Portugal. Finally—and also greeting Sporting for his title—it is not understood, Mr. Secretary of State, how we will have 12 000 people watching the Champions game and we cannot have people watching football games in Portugal. Is it only safe for the English? Is it not safe for Portuguese people who want to watch, for example, at the end of the Portuguese Cup or then at the end of the Supertace? What is the problem of, in football stadiums, being able to exist public when we can have it for the English? Are the Portuguese less careful than the English?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u314	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies. It's out of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u315	I will finish, Mr. President. The government says there are rapid tests at the entrance of the stadium. Do it too in Portuguese football games! So perhaps we can have a minimum of dignity that Portuguese football also deserves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u316	For an intervention, I have the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary: Let me begin, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, with a note on national culture and cultural identity, to tell you that a country also grows when it values its own language. So let me give you this suggestion: the government, when deciding to pass bills to bring to the Assembly of the Republic, put aside the UEFA Champions League 2020 - 2021 and treat things for its Portuguese name, which in this case is the League of Champions 2020 - 2021, because the use of the Portuguese Language also enlarges us. [[Congratulations on the PCP and on the PSD.]] On the substance of the matter, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to say that it is not even on the farm at any time. It was in 2000, in 2014, in 2019, in 2020, and with 2021, it is the fifth time that we are discussing an exceptional tax regime for the performance of a football competition in Portugal. And we are discussing, for the fifth time, a solution to this issue, when we should already have a general framework for dealing with these issues. It is that there are fundamental issues that must be considered with criteria, Mr. Secretary of State. And with a criterion that allows you to understand what is right and what is wrong, what is well thought and what is poorly thought, what is justified, in relation to the dimension, nature and type of event, and how that has to apply to an event or to more events of the same nature. Since 2000 the CFP has been asking the same questions and we are still unanswered. We shall see if this time we have left this debate with these answers. Why are non-resident entities exempt from IRS and IRC because they participate in the end of UEFA, when tax codes explicitly provide for the taxation of these income arising from the exercise of these competitions or activities when they are carried out in Portuguese territory? Why is this considered only in relation to a modality and within that modality only in relation to an event and is not considered in relation to other sports modes or similar events that develop in other sports modes? Why are only sports activities considered and not considered, for example, cultural activities, cultural and similar professional shows that can be considered for the same purpose? And why is all this not treated in a harmonious and broad way that allows you to understand what the criterion is and what is the discussion that must be made to avoid these decisions? That's still the big problem we have in front of us. We understand that, from the point of view of the international projection of the country, from the point of view of the projection of the sports infrastructures available to the country, it may be important to carry out the finals of sports competitions in Portugal. But it is no less, when it comes, for example, to the projection of cultural activity, it is no less when an international theatre festival is held that gathers, in Portugal, a relevant set of people involved, creators, stagers and actors, who throughout the world are recognized and participate in activities of the same nature, in Portugal. Why is culture less than sport? Why are these issues not considered articulated and harmoniously, with defined criteria generally so as to be understood why it can be and in other circumstances cannot be? I would like to leave only one last reference, which I think is useful, so that this debate may not be repeated, at least in the molds in which it has been repeated. The issues of double taxation are not, in fact, secondary. But the issues of double taxation can also be resolved in a different way than the one with which they have been resolved. It is that the issue can also be resolved by taxing incomes in territories where those activities or events occur and not in others where tax taxable persons may have to pay their taxes. This can also be a contribution that the Portuguese State can make in the international discussion, with regard to the tax framework of these matters, within which the organization of these matters is prepared. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u318	To close this debate, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by telling Mr João Oliveira that you are absolutely right. We have no need to say that we are going to have the Champions League here. We can say it in Portuguese, which is certainly much more beautiful, at a time when we also celebrate the language. I would also like to congratulate you, Mr President, not only on the repair you have made on the question of the Portuguese language but also on the serious way in which you put the question here, which, in fact, repeats and is consistent with at least the last two debates I have had on this subject and the position that the CFP has had. And why does this position make sense? Because, unlike what many are saying here about this matter, we are not discussing any tax bills or tax exemptions here. We are here discussing how to avoid double taxation of an activity which is regulated at European level. And Mr. João Oliveira is quite right: what has happened is a principle in the frameworks of the UEFA countries, as I said recently in my initial intervention on reciprocity and uniformity in relation to the criteria. That is, whenever UEFA competes this way in any of the countries or states that belong to UEFA, these countries apply exactly this regime. And they do it about non-residents for what? To ensure that residents involved in this competition continue to pay where they have to pay, ensuring that they always pay in the State of residence. That is why this tax system applies to non-residents in order to avoid double taxation issues. And yes, it is done case-by-casely and perhaps a uniformisation for these types of competitions should be discussed at European level. But what we are doing is exactly what Mr. João Oliveira here has identified, and well, he has identified: we are defining a casuistic regime to avoid double taxation for these events. Mr Ventura, perhaps recalling today more of his fiscal aspect than his populist aspect, put the matter very well. Mr President, with regard to the rules for the distribution of advertising revenue, what we are doing, which applies and overlaps with domestic law — and you know this well — are the rules contained in the conventions to avoid double taxation. The only taxation that States abdicate in these types of regimes is in relation to royalties, and not even to all the value that could be taxed, but only partially. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, once again, I would like to welcome this debate, so that it will be focused on what it really is: the holding of an event of an important sporting nature for Portugal and important for the city of Porto and which shows that we are at a time when the country is seen, at European level, as a safe country. Fortunately, we have all managed to overcome the most difficult phases of the pandemic and we all hope that this will continue. Finally, allow me to address Mr Fonseca, telling him that I am not surprised by the obsession of the PSD with the tax burden. In fact, there is no debate on this matter, in which I am involved, in which the PSD does not talk about the tax burden. You have had very important news today, not only for you, but for the whole country, about how the country has managed to maintain its employment levels. Mr President, the tax burden is the sum of tax revenue with the revenue of social contributions, i.e. the contributions that employees make to the system of their social protection, and the weight of social contributions in GDP rose from 9, 6 % to 10, 3 %, because there is more employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u320	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u321	And because GDP, like the others. Members said, it decreased by 5, 4 %, but social contributions increased by 0, 7 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u322	It's the recipe!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u323	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's just a mathematical matter to understand what the tax burden represents.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u324	The liberal wanted the salary cut!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u325	Mrs. Members, in a debate in which we are also talking about the European Union, see also the data of the European Union. Mr. Alberto Fonseca, the tax burden...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u326	Please conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u327	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Mr, the tax burden in Portugal is the eighth lowest in the European Union at 27. The tax burden of the European Union, from year to year, rose by 1 percentage point and the tax burden in Portugal rose by 0, 3 percentage points. This is the truth, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u328	We have reached the end of this debate. We're going to get into the regiment votes for which there's a quorum. 223 Members are registered. We begin with the Voting Project No 583 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL, and non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Greetings to the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia. To read this draft vote, you have the floor of Ms.Secretariat Sofia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u329	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On May 17, the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia is celebrated, which marks the date on which the World Health Organization withdrew the homosexuality of the International Classification of Diseases in 1990. This day was instituted in 2004 to draw attention to violence, discrimination and prejudice to which lesbian, homosexual, bisexual, transgender, intersex and people with divergent gender expressions are subject. It is also a day to reflect on respect for difference, to point out the struggles and conquests of rights which, unfortunately, are still far from being a reality in many countries. In Portugal, this efemeride began to be marked in 2007, on the occasion of the European Year for Equal Opportunities for All, with the holding of a conference promoted by the Commission on Citizenship and Gender Equality ( IGC) against discrimination of LGBTI+ persons, which was formally enshrined in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 99 / 2015 of 22 July. Although the punishment of homosexuality was removed from the Criminal Code in 1982, in 2004 only non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation became enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic ( Article 13 ). o ). In 2007 the Criminal Code began to punish the promotion of hatred and to aggravate physical aggression and homicide motivated by homophobia. the measures adopted to promote inclusion and equality will highlight the legalization of marriage between people of the same sex in 2010, being Portugal the sixth country worldwide to do so ; the recognition of the right to full adoption in 2016 ; and the right to self-determination of gender identity and expression and to the protection of the sexual characteristics of each person in 2018. Currently, Portugal occupies 4. the place in Rainbow Map Europe, being, for the first time, in the top 5 of the countries that legally most recognize rights and protect LGBTI + communities. But it is necessary to ensure, at every moment, effective access by all people to all rights, always continuing to fight for silence, explain discrimination, remember good and bad practices and collectively assume responsibility for fighting for the dignity of a human person and against discrimination and homophobia. It is also necessary to combat the stereotype of a monolytic LGBTI + community, ensuring that the diversity of people belonging to it is celebrated and protected. The gross violation of the human rights of LGBTI+ people is a reality that deserves permanent surveillance. In times of pandemic crisis, in which the existing inequalities are intensified, making access to essential goods and services difficult, the most vulnerable people are the most affected and many have become worse at their living conditions, a situation where LGBTI + people also fit. Strengthening the rights of LGBTI+ people, preventing and combating discrimination, prejudice and violence is a work for each one of us, as citizens and as agents promoting political and legislative change. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia and reaffirms the commitment to equal rights for all people and to combating any kind of discrimination and violation of the rights of LGBTI people +. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u330	Thank you very much, Secretary Sofia Araújo. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u331	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u332	What are you doing, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u333	Mr President, it is only to announce that I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u334	All right. Mr. Pedro Morais Soares also asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u335	Mr President, it is also to announce that the CDS will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u336	All right. Be registered. We shall continue with the votes. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1267 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Slovenia, Bulgaria and Spain-Madrid. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on a request by the PS, on a bass basis to the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, without a 60-day vote of the Bill No 83 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Electronic Communications Act and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1972, establishing the European Electronic Communications Code. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote is followed by another request, submitted by the CH, on bass to the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, without a vote of 60 days from the Bill No 818 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — Amends Article 27 ( 1 ). the, adding points 3 and 4 of Article 53. that of the Law of Electronic Communications. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote in general on Law No 84 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the new Organic Law of the Foundations of the Armed Forces Organization. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD and CDS-PP, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and CH and abstentions from PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] This bill goes down to 3. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Law No 85 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the National Defence Act. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD and CDS-PP, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and CH and abstentions from PAN, IL and non-registered Members Joacine Katar Moreira and Cristina Rodrigues.]] This initiative is also down to 3. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u337	Mr President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u338	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u339	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a written statement of vote on the two proposed laws that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u340	All right. Mr Ventura also asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u341	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present a written statement of vote on the same proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u342	All right. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 792 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Change the National Defence Act ( second amendment to Organic Law No 1 - B / 2009 of 7 July ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and CH and abstentions against PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will now vote, also in general, Bill No. 793 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Alter the Organic Law of Bases for the Organization of Armed Forces ( second amendment to the Organic Law No 1 -A / 2009 of 7 July ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and CH and abstentions by non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u343	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u344	Sir, what are you doing?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u345	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a written statement of vote on the vote of the two bills that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u346	All right. Be registered. We shall generally vote for Law No 65 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends Article 120. that of the Code of Municipal Property Tax approved in Annex to Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November in the wording given by Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We are now voting in general on the Proposal for a Law No 71 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — At the end of geographical blockade and discrimination in electronic sales for consumers in the Autonomous Regions. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the abstentions of the PCP and the ENP.]] The initiative goes down to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u347	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u348	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u349	Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to announce that I will send the Bureau a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u350	It transposes Directive(EU) 2019 / 1024 on open data and reuse of public sector information. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS and PSD, votes against the PCP, the ENP and the IL and abstentions against BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 840 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Promotes the deepening of the provision of open data relating to public sector information( 3 ). the amendment to Law No 26 / 2016 of 22 August ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the IL, votes against BE and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstention from the PSD.]] We are now voting, in general, on the Proposal for a Law No 96 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the tax regime of the organizers of the end of the UEFA Champions League 2020 / 2021 competition. [[Subject to the vote, votes against BE and PAN and abstentions against the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] Mrs. Members, we will vote on draft resolution No 1251 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — For the speedy regularization of the situation of immigrant workers in Odemira municipality, ensuring their full access to public services, health, housing and decent work. The PSD called for a point vote, so we started by voting on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and other non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on draft resolutions Nos 60 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government enforce the obligations of the State and its agencies by ensuring a safe movement of the local population and of all who use EN225, 72 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent re-qualification of the National Road No 225, 121 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the rehabilitation of EN225, 133 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — By the urgent requalification of the qualification of the National Road Nos 225 and 236 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent re-qualification of the National Road No 225. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall jointly vote on the requests submitted by the PCP and BE for the full vote in the speciality of the Bills No 660 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Open competition for the extraordinary linkage of teaching staff of technical and artistic components specialized for the exercise of functions in the areas of visual and audiovisual arts, in public educational establishments, 761 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Determines the review of the recruitment and mobility scheme of basic and secondary teaching staff and 762 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Programme for the linkage of special technical teachers of specialized artistic education in the areas of visual arts and audiovisual arts. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us then move on to additional script I and proceed to the special vote of Bill No 660 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Opening of a competition for the extraordinary linkage of teaching staff of technical and artistic components specialized in the exercise of the functions of visual and audiovisual arts in public educational establishments. We begin by voting Article 1 ( 1 ( a ). o.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u351	Mr President, I believe that additional script I can be voted on together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u352	Mr President, there are those who have problems with this vote as a whole. So, let's vote one at a time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u353	Mr. President, if we vote for two separate points...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u354	Mr President, we call for a separate vote on Article 2 ( 1 ). o. As for the others, we have nothing to do with voting together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u355	Is that a CDS-PP?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u356	Mr President, we want Article 3 to be voted on separately. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u357	Mrs. Members, therefore, we shall begin by voting Article 2 ( 1 ). o. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and abstentions from the PAN and IL.]] We now vote on Article 3. o. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u358	Mr President, I wanted us to vote alone on Article 2 ( 3 ). o. Everything else can be voted on together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u359	Mr President, I am sorry, but the voting method was decided at the beginning with the two proposals that have been made, so we can no longer be changing. Now we have to vote together the rest...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u360	Mr President, I cannot be obliged to vote in any way I do not want.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u361	The honourable Member proposed that everything should be voted on together. Then there were two proposals, one from the CDS-PP and one from the PAN, and it is not now that there are more proposals. I shall therefore put to the vote all the other articles, numbers, points, etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u362	Mr President, I understand perfectly, but I cannot be forced to vote in a way that I do not intend to vote. If it's all under attack, I have to vote all the same and not...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u363	Mr President, then tell me what your concrete proposal is.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u364	Mr. President, I have already said. I hope that Article 2 ( 3 ) will be voted on separately. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u365	Let us then vote on Article 2 ( 3 ). o. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now, together, vote on everything else, the remaining numbers and points. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS were adopted.]] We move on to additional script II, which consists of the special vote on Bill No 761 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Determines the revision of the recruitment and mobility scheme of basic and secondary teaching staff.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u366	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u367	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u368	Mr. President, the previous script also included the overall final vote of Bill No. 660 / XIV / 2. a. Therefore, the votes we have cast together had already included the overall final vote. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u369	Mrs. Members, we can vote together in the specialty, the Bill No. 761 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Determines the review of the recruitment and mobility scheme of basic and secondary teaching staff? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u370	Mr President, on the part of the PSD, all articles together may be voted on, with the exception of Article 3 ( e ). o.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u371	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u372	Mr President, we have a number of explanations of vote, so it is appropriate that the vote be put to the vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u373	So let's start by voting on Article 1. o. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 2. o. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on Article 3. o. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on Article 3 ( a ). o. It's a little weird, because we voted the article before the points, but that's what's in the script. Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and IL and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We are now voting on Article 3 ( b ). o. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP and IL.]] The vote on Article 3 ( c ) shall follow. o. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the IL.]] We are now voting on Article 3 ( d ). o. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 3 ( e ). o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 4. o [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] Now, yes, we will proceed to the global final vote of Bill No. 761 / XIV / 2. a ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP and IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to additional script III...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u374	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u375	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u376	Mr President, the question which I have recently raised may now again be justified. A short time ago, in Supplement I, we also had a comprehensive final vote, but Mr President gave as a vote all together. The question which I had recently raised in the light of the clarification that the overall final vote had also been included in that final vote because, if so, there is no problem and the issue is settled. If there are any doubts about this, we will have to repeat the overall final vote, which I think is unnecessary, but I think it is important to clarify this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u377	I think it has been clarified with your statement, Mr President. We then move on to additional script III to proceed to the special vote on Bill No 762 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Programme for the linkage of special technical teachers of specialized artistic education in the areas of visual arts and audiovisual arts. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if we can vote together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u378	Mr President, if I may, we wish to vote separately under Article 2 ( 5 ). the, which is on page 3 of the script.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u379	Mr President, these requests are normally made before the vote, so that the Bureau can prepare itself and there is no improvisation, but I realize that this is a speciality vote and that it is therefore more difficult to do so, because there may be things that imply rejection of others.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u380	Let us then vote on Article 2 ( 5 ). or...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u381	Mr President, I am sorry, but to continue this tradition of making voting difficult, I would like to say that, on our side, Article 2 (1). the, as set out in the first page of the script, and Article 2 ( 2 ( b ). the, which is at the top of the second page, will have to be voted on before the vote on the overallity of the diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u382	So we started by voting Article 2 ( 1 ). the draft Law No 762 / XIV / 2. a ( BE). [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the IL.]] Let us now vote on Article 2 ( 2 ( b ). o [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the IL.]] We shall vote on Article 2 ( 5 ). o [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS and CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote together the remaining articles and points of the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS were adopted.]] We move on to the overall final vote of Bill No 762 / XIV / 2. a ( BE). [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded today's scheduled votes. We also have to vote on an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which will give us Mr.Secretariat Sofia Araújo. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u383	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Coimbra — Central Criminal Court of Coimbra — Judge 3, Case No 237 / 16.0JACBR, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Paulo Leitão ( PSD ) to present a statement as a witness within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u384	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Sofia Araújo will also give us a set of information. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u385	Mr President, I inform the House that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted to the following legislative initiatives: Bill Nos 95 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 96 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which falls to 5. the Commission ; Draft Law Nos 841 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 842 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 843 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 14. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission ; and Draft Resolution Nos 1276 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1277 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission, 1278 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 1279 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-20.u386	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will be held on Wednesday, May 26, and it is on the agenda, requested by the Left Block, the joint assessment of Bill No 839 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Strengthens mechanisms to combat forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation, directly responsible the whole chain of subcontracting and user companies, as well as managers, administrators and directors, and of Resolution Projects Nos 744 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — To combat the precariousness and promotion of vocational training and qualification of agricultural work and 1273 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Strengthening of means to combat exploitation. At the end of the debate, there will eventually be a vote on initiatives. I hope that we will be informed in due course whether or not it will exist. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your cooperation, which today has been very important for us to be able to take this meeting to the end without any incident. Good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 27 minutes.]]
