ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let's start our plenary meeting. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] Today's session has as its core point the Government's Request No 10 / XIV / 2. the, required by the CDS-PP, on the theme « Pandemic management, post-state emergency. Vaccination certificates and recovery in health, social and economic areas'. To open the debate, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor on behalf of the interpelent. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We first authorized and then discussed in this Chamber 15 states of emergency. From then on, in the post-emergency and post-Infarmed period, it is essential to ask the government about what is going on, about the evolution of the pandemic and the fight against it at this stage. Big way, what do we have? The pandemic does not give signs of slowing down, the number of cases has been increasing, such as the number of patients hospitalized, in general, and in ICU ( intensive care units). In Lisbon, the number of infections has increased five consecutive weeks. Great Lisbon is in the 3000 weekly diagnoses, in a total of 5000 cases at the national level, with more than 800 cases per day, according to the latest numbers. Although at this stage, fortunately, there is less reflection in terms of mortality, experts point out that we can be faced with a fourth wave and that the situation in Lisbon is a real 'explosive cocktail'. Do not keep on seeking. ” The first obvious question is why this is happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u4	Was that the entrance to the Delta variant? Was it football parties or something? Thus, despite the government's denials, we are strongly convinced that the way in which it has not been prepared or prevented, for example, the celebrations of the national football champion title had a direct relationship with the number of contagions. The data available indicate precisely the 11th of May and next as the expolet of the beginning of this new wave. If, in addition to this, we remember what happened shortly thereafter, with the completion of the Champions League in the city of Porto, we realize that the lack of decision, prevention and the crisis of authority by those who have the responsibility to impose rules is a disaster in a pandemic situation. The rise of R(t) is a worrying and undisturbed point, already at 1, 12 at national level. We are thus drawing closer to all the red lines defined by the government itself. This also raises a number of specific questions, such as: why is DGS (Direction-General of Health) not providing hospital admission data by region? On the other hand, why has the test schedule not been fulfilled in schools? And why do we not have concrete and up-to-date data on school outbreaks? What measures have been taken and what degree of risk do public transport represent at this time? These are concrete questions that we want to see answered in this explanation. This at a time when we once again felt that a set of wrong messages and disastrous communication would have had direct influence on the results we are facing. Here the question is obvious and direct: when is it that, once and for all, in the management of the pandemic, we will have a single, serious and strict communication on the part of the government, without bubbles or messed up?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u6	If the sentence of Mr President of the Republic, according to which « does not turn back », is at least a huge unhappiness, because contradictory to all that had been said before, the ping-pong followed between the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, of the kind «who sent me, who sent you», was absurd. I say this in the same terms that in the past I criticized the excess of Dupond and Dupont between the two protagonists. This was a good example of why communication fails and why citizens, when they look up, feel confused or even abandoned. If the pandemic, as Admiral Gouveia and Melo have told us, is a war, then it agreed there was a single, clear and perceptible voice of command. By the way, it should be remembered, and admitted, that not everything goes wrong in this context. Vaccination, although we are far from other countries, has taken place effectively and is not irrelevant to this at the time when the political commissioner who was dealing with the matter was removed, in order to put himself in front of the same capable and competent person. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Still, even in the issue of vaccination there are questions that make sense: what is the justification for an increase in infections in people already vaccinated? Is this phenomenon being duly assessed and weighted? Secondly, knowing that young people, at the moment, make most of the cases, especially those at the age of attending university, i.e. those from 20 to 29 years old, representing a fifth of the infected, would it not make sense, given the inevitable mobility that exists in this generation and in the universities in particular, also seek to anticipate their vaccination? Finally, we take this opportunity to know more closely what the so-called digital vaccination certificate represents and how effective it is. It is clear that the withdrawal that the Government announced yesterday, in particular with regard to the ten councils at risk and, to some extent, with respect to the 20 on the alert, and the announcement of new restrictions, including the ban on movement of and to the Lisbon Metropolitan Area at weekends, means that the Government will, as we have said, be looking for the term 'explosive cocktail' and the spread of the serious situation in Lisbon to the rest of the country. However, do so with a formula of dubious effectiveness. It would be necessary, indeed, from our point of view, to improve, as we have already said, communication, other kinds of action and measures, from the outset, not to allow exceptions to compliance with the safety rules and to ensure effective supervision. It is clear that this kind of action would recommend a new Minister of Internal Administration, since it is weakened and loses, from day to day, any shadow of authority. But it is also necessary to review and increase testing and epidemiological surveys, ensuring that, in particular, in the family aggregates of those in prophylactic isolation, all people are effectively tested. It is necessary to prepare hospitals for possible fourth strike and contract once and for all, with the private and social sectors, to recover from delays in consultations and surgeries. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is necessary to pay attention to and transmit correct data in relation to new variants and mutations of the virus, acting swiftly in the measures to be taken according to its dissemination, instead of using them as an excuse whenever it runs behind the damage and things start to go wrong. Finally, it is important to know whether serious errors have not been made in the excesses committed in some events or in the rush of opening and defining. Just remember the government's propaganda: we were the first and only country open to the English, so soon after the campal battles in Invicta, the same English people turned their backs on us. The Foreign Minister was patriotically indignant, but would they, the English, have no reason, however ungrateful they were? It was Delta, my friends! What bubble? Oh, my God! It was Delta! in these situations the question is always the same: whether, to carry out an event, political or not, one day, or to earn a few days in advance, we are not at risk of losing months or even the whole summer, so important for our tourism and restoration. A clear plan is needed and the government sets out rules, targets and objectives for economic recovery itself, as it is necessary to ensure, once again, that no one is left behind. from a social point of view it is necessary to sustainly help families and businesses in difficulties and consistently support the social economy, which is the main partner, indispensable for local development. The third sector cannot be forgotten nor can it be delayed, because it is fundamental for this goal of recovery. Otherwise, the government will continue to blame Portuguese, tourists, young people, climate or variants!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u7	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u8	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. The government failed in the post-emergency state. The blame is not for the Portuguese, but for the lack of planning, clear rules and the ability to enforce.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u9	Mr President, the time will be cut from you during the debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u10	If we want to avoid even greater backwardness, that is exactly what needs to be changed. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u11	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Antonio Lacerda Sales. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the exceptional period in which we live, the days have become years and the months have become decades. Only 15 months have passed, but perhaps the longest of our lives. The times that we live will be nailed to history, like the time of science in the race for a global response. But it will also be marked by the small individual stories: from the herculae struggle of the citizens to the constant sacrific of health professionals, also going through the demanding work of whom laws and implements public policies, in an unparalleled time in our collective memory. The pandemic caused by COVID-19 disease has profoundly transformed the life of contemporary society: the way we relate to each other, the safety and hygiene care that we individually had to adopt, the personal projects that had to be met, the priorities that had to be redefined and the difficult task of protecting the most vulnerable and at risk. The reports we receive every day are elucidative on the extent of the effects of this phenomenon. We are all aware of the difficult task that has been unexpectedly imposed on us by this health emergency, which unfortunately still remains in the community. We all know, too, that nothing will remain as before, but the future will certainly be better than the present which we live in. in these long months that we count of collective resilience much was what we saw, heard and read. The collapse of the National Health Service ( SNS ) was announced, the results of the disheartening mathematics were proclaimed, the lack of capacity of the health structures and the population was contaminated with artificial news, which only serve those who feed on fear. We never give up. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And whenever necessary we resumed at every moment, with humility, sense of responsibility and recognition for the scale of the challenges we had in our hands. The country, in an extraordinary national mobilization, invested in individual protective equipment, strengthened testing capacity, mechanical ventilation capacity, tracking capacity, strengthened the network of public laboratories and the academy, strengthened health institutions with more autonomy and more human resources, and knew a considerable advance at the level of digital tools. Therefore, SNS has given evidence of its vitality, readiness and ability to adapt and provide responses in the provision of health care to citizens, thanks to the remarkable capacity, effort and sacrifice of all health professionals. We have never doubted their abilities that are recognized today by a grateful country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As a health professional I am seeking to look at this period as a period of learning in which I highlight three aspects in particular: the awareness of our vulnerabilities and the vulnerabilities of others and that we only take care of ourselves when we look at and take care of others. I also highlight our ability to react to threats to our health, and the development of a vaccine in a short time is the greatest example of this. The appreciation of human life is based on the certainty that technical advances are crucial, but they are of no value without the humanization of care. Cumulative knowledge and learning at scientific and operational level were essential to promote better early organization and planning, greater management efficiency and predictability in solutions. It is therefore essential that we understand the last 15 months and look at the transforming course that Portugal and the Portuguese have made since the beginning of this pandemic caused by the disease COVID-19. A path focused on saving lives and ensuring the necessary health care, reducing the pressure of services and health and, in turn, controlling the rate of transmissibility, strengthening the means and capacity, which we do not have at our disposal, and preparing the country for the new reality through compliance with the health rules. in this framework of control of the epidemiological situation in the country it is necessary to view the next times as decisive to turn the pandemic page and prepare the future of the National Health Service for major priorities, such as ensuring and promoting the coverage of vaccination to the entire population, because the vaccine is the essential element for changing the paradigm. The vaccination plan for COVID-19 results from an extraordinary work of convergence between knowledge and scientific evidence that gives it strength and consistency enough to affirm itself as the path, not the end, to control the pandemic. It means that, despite having the pharmacological weapon, it does not invalidate the adoption of all measures, known as non-pharmacological, to control the transmissionability of the virus. Currently, we have a total of about 6, 9 million inoculations, 4, 5 million people with at least the first dose of vaccine, of which 2, 6 million with the full vaccination scheme, about 25 % of the population. A second priority is the management of the incidence of the risk matrix, a model that is socially rooted and is perceived by the population. It is essential to continue to bet on the reference regarding incidence and R (t), working and monitoring, obviously, other important and complementary indicators such as vaccination rate, testing, pressure on health services at the level of nursing and intensive care unit, variants and others. Third priority: recovery of the care activity advocated by COVID-19, in order to recover the care activity in primary health care, including the conduct of presence consultations, the follow-up of chronic patients and the reference to hospital care. When we compare homologous periods, the first quarter of 2020 with the first quarter of 2021, today we have more than 2, 4 million medical consultations in primary health care. In the same period, we have more 440 000 consultations in hospital care and more 39 000 surgeries. Although we still have no data validated in May, I can tell you that evolution is very favourable. Fourth priority: preparing the winter 2021 / 2022. On 31 May, the resolution of the Council of Ministers authorizing the carrying out of expenditure by regional health administrations with the acquisition of the influenza vaccine was adopted. Compared to the influenza period 2020 / 2021, 2021 / 2022 represents a global increase of 7 % in the overall value of 2, 240 million doses of influenza vaccines, representing an increase of 146 000 doses compared to the previous year. Fifth priority: to promote the robustness of the SNS. This pandemic in its reality and dimension required a conjuncural response and, at the same time, a structural response which will be guaranteed for the future. On the other hand, Portugal has today a set of financial instruments capable of leveraging structural reforms for the health sector. I speak to you about the Recovery and Resilience Plan (PRR ) in the area of health, which provides for the reform of primary health care, mental health reform and the reform of the governance model of public hospitals, considering still some investments in equipment and bet on digital transition. However, the action of the Government is not exhausted from this fundamental instrument, we also have other instruments such as the State Budget for the year 2021 that we are fulfilling and implementing article to article, measure the measure, within the framework of the care activity, human resources and at the level of investments. Let us keep an eye on the commitments made to the Portuguese on the horizon of the legislature, which is the programme of the XXII Constitutional Government, which we seek every day to follow. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we know that there is a lot to do, but that cannot in any way erase what has been done in our country. This time was a time when we had to give answers that have become reforms, when we made the crisis a moment of overcoming and resilience, a moment when from pain we made solidarity and difficulty we made a chance. The crisis, regardless of its nature, is a major challenge for democratic systems, both by the context of unpredictableness and by the effectiveness of the response, and also by the need to communicate with transparency and seriousness. That has been our way of working, and that is the way we should go. The year 2021 will be decisive in preparing for the future of the National Health Service, through the reduction of inequalities and asymmetries, of strengthening adherence to the National Health Service, which is today a factor of confidence. But it is also necessary to look at the human capital we have in the National Health Service, improving the working conditions and valuing health professionals, which are fundamental to the human development and progress of institutions. This is a national design that brings us all together in this Chamber. Mr Telmo Correia, let me remind you of what I said here in the gallery on 13 March 2020 when we all knew so little about this virus and the questions were much more than the answers. He wished the Ministry of Health, and the Minister of Health, in particular, good luck and that he did not lack the courage to leave a call so that there would be no hesitation in taking action.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u13	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u14	Mr President, I do not know whether we have, but today I assure you that we have never hesitated to take action and believe that we had to take very difficult measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u15	Mr. Secretary of State, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u16	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, I believe that we had to take very difficult measures in a scenario with which no government in democratic history had to deal. They were made with courage, determination, sense of responsibility, in order to respond to the needs of the citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u17	Mr Secretary of State, since he has exceeded the time allocated for his intervention, he will be reduced during the debate. Mr Telmo Correia, you have signed up to request clarifications from you two Mr. Members, one from PSD and one from PS. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u18	I will answer one by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u19	You then have the floor to Mrs Cláudia Bento from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mr Telmo Correia, are already known the numbers of this first year of the pandemic by COVID-19 in the context of health. The numbers are terrible. The government says it's okay, but we know and the country knows that it's not okay, because we could and should have done better. The numbers are there to confirm it and deserve a reflection. According to data from the National Institute of Statistics, between March 2020 and February 2021, total mortality in Portugal increased 21 %, more than 23 000 deaths than the average of the previous five years. More than one third of these deaths were due to non-COVID causes, i.e. more than 8,000 deaths that could have been avoided, if the health system had been able to respond jointly to the needs of our patients. This significant expression of non-COVID mortality clearly has various causes, including the increase in the number of urgent cases that did not have the appropriate and timely response or the increase in chronic patients who lost the follow-up or the increase in the number of people who no longer saw their diseases diagnosed due to difficulty in accessing health care or screenings, including diseases of the cancer, cardiovascular and respiratory forum.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u22	The increase in avoidable mortality, non-COVID, is the most tragic demonstration that not everything went well. Another evidence is the breakdown of the care activity of the National Health Service verified in the last year. Analyzing the figures according to the Transparency Portal in 2020, compared to 2019, there were fewer than eight million medical consultations present in health centres, a fall of 38 %, and less than 127 000 surgeries in hospitals of the National Health Service. More: about 25 million complementary acts of diagnosis and therapy and almost half a million oncological screenings have been done, which is very serious. There is an urgent need to reverse this situation and save lives! Mr Member, in view of this reality, that once again I can only describe as terrible, I ask the CDS what evaluation makes the Socialist Party Government's attitude to refuse to put people's lives in front of its ideological sectarianism,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u23	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u24	... where it could have facilitated the access of the population, ensuring the conduct of medical consultations and surgeries, to the social and private sector, in cases where the maximum guaranteed response times were exceeded. Furthermore, the CDS does not believe that, in addition to the obvious health gains, this measure could bring greater efficiency to the National Health Service? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u25	To reply, Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u26	Mr President, Mrs Cláudia Bento, perhaps in a simpler and more direct way, and in relation to her two more specific questions, I would begin by answering her yes and yes. But it's not enough, it's good to explain why. In order to explain why, I would like to say to you the following: The truth is that when you ask me for an assessment of the government's position, there is something that the Government and the Socialist Party have already used to us — and there are indeed the best in the world — that is propaganda! [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] Constant propaganda never fails, even when the situation would have some modesty and some prudence. Thus, and from this point of view, it is worth saying here, and in particular to remind the Secretary of State, who, to address this expression to the Minister of Health, wishing you good luck at a critical time, on the eve of the first serious measures that we had to take and do so with all sincerity, and would do so today again for her, for you and your colleagues who are in government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u28	This is because there is no Socialist Party government, nor is there any other party government, you sometimes see things like this. I think there is a Government of the Nation, and if things go well with the government, it is going well with the nation, for more at a time of pandemic and enormous difficulty. This is our sense of national responsibility, so to speak, towards our community as a whole. It's the way we see things, honestly. Furthermore, Mrs Cláudia Bento, it should be remembered that our two parties, from this point of view, have always been responsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u29	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u30	It never lacked the essential support, particularly in the approval of the emergency states, so that the Government could do so and adopt the measures. It then tells us that the government has taken many measures and that they have always been very determined and very courageous and very coherent. Mr. Member, we are both remembered, I think: the masks were counterproductive, was to use and then became compulsory on the street. As for the temperature, I also asked the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u31	On the same day!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u32	That same day! Temperature measurement was a bad idea because the person could have taken an antipyretic, I, unlike Mr. Secretary of State, am not a doctor. It was a very bad idea, but it became mandatory — we in the House are controlled every day, as it is well. With regard to the use of the private and social sector, as the honourable Member asks and, firstly, the Minister felt that it was not necessary for anything and it was devalued. But when we were in the worst situation in January, the government finally appealed to the private and the social to help fight the pandemic. That is to say, we have indeed had numerous contradictions, but I even do justice to acknowledge that the situation is not easy and that often we need to find the right path. I have even recognized what is going on better than the issue of vaccination, but to say that everything went well, that it was all perfect, Mrs. Member, is unacceptable because it does not correspond to the truth. What we should recommend to the Government was more humility and modesty in this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u33	To request clarification by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Telmo Correia, I am absolutely amazed at the assurances that the right has before us the uncertainty that this pandemic has brought us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I'm absolutely scared! And I'm so surprised when you're so sure, so sure, so sure, but over 15 months, you haven't heard a response to this pandemic. An answer! Criticisms were heard. Before asking questions to Mr Telmo Correia, I would like to tell Mrs Claúdia Bento that ideological blindness was, in the management of the previous crisis, you cut into the National Health Service as you had never seen before. That was not the answer to this crisis! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It is not worth crying crocodile tears when you were responsible for the biggest cut in memory in the National Health Service, for the benefit of the private. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Therefore, Mr Telmo Correia, the Socialist Party's bench can only thank you for bringing this issue to debate. We are grateful because, unlike what you say, it is not propaganda; what happened is that the state has not failed. When people needed the National Health Service, he, robust, responded without limit to the needs of the population. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When people saw their employment being involved, the State replied, and responded with the layoff measures, ensuring that, contrary to what happened to you, today, there is no unemployment rate of 17 %, there is an unemployment rate of 7, 1 %. The State did not fail in social protection when it guaranteed that no one could be without protection, even if it had never made discounts for social security. The State has not failed to support our economy, and therefore today the international forecasts, or those of Banco de Portugal, are more positive forecasts for our economy and for the prospects of the economy. The state did not fail when, unlike you, who negotiated in Europe the courting of pensions for Portuguese, we negotiated a Recovery and Resilience Plan that will guarantee the economic recovery of our country. This is called 'do not fail'! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Propaganda, Mr Telmo Correia, is to not want to show that one quarter of the population today is already with the full vaccine; it is to want not to show that there are 7 million doses administered; it is to want not to show that we are above the European Union average and that the state, once again, is not failing and is doing everything to give answers to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Propaganda, honourable Member, is when the incoherence of the benches to the right is evidenced. When DGS gives positive opinions to some demonstrations by some parties, there is a cry in this House. When, this week, he witnessed a negationist, irresponsible,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...with the DGS's negative opinion, Mr. Member of that bench had nothing to say. But there is one thing I assure you, Mr President: the Socialist Party and the Government will not fail in the response that the Portuguese need, because that is why we are here, to respond to the Portuguese, to respond to this pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] Without certainty, but with one certainty: everything, everything, we will do so that the Portuguese will leave this health, economic and social crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u35	To reply, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u36	Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, I am very grateful for your questions, which I will answer directly and in front of you. First of all, I would like to say that I do not agree with you when you say that some of the benches on this side of the Chamber, in particular my own, did not have a position, did not speak. We have always spoken to each other and have always put forward proposals at every moment of the pandemic. In fact, we were the first to propose contractualization with the private sector and the social sector, insisting and fighting for it, when the Socialist Party denied it. [[PCP protests.]] The honourable Member, apparently with great irritation from the bench of the Portuguese Communist Party, gave the example of the layoff, but the honourable Member is as reminded as I am of the number of times the government has changed the rules. How many times has the government changed the layoff rules? At least then in that first phase, it changed them three times,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u37	And what's the problem?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u38	... because they were not applicable nor were they correct. And it has changed them in the sense of many of our proposals. So we were always present. Secondly, the honourable Member is being very unfair. I don't have time for this, but if you want, I'll read the two paragraphs of my speech again on the issue of vaccination.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u39	Don't! It's so bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u40	I commended the way vaccination is taking place, although noting that it has improved substantially at the time when you removed the political commissioner who was in front of the matter to put Mr. Admiral Gouveia and Melo. [[Protests of PS Members.]] That was a decisive moment. Perhaps it was a good reflection for the PS in terms of political commissioners in general. Well, sometimes it's not a good idea. Madam Member, I am responding to your specific question, which is very important. There is a criticism that does not fit, in everything, on my bench and on the CDS, which is the affirmation of any kind of negationism. It is true that, in my view, there has been some denial in this House. And negationism does not consist only of individuals disguised as bison attempting to invade parliaments. It is not necessary to reach this level to conclude that we have negationism, that there are various types of negationism. [[Protests of PS Members.]] When, for example, some sides left, center, right and right voted systematically against the states of emergency, they were somehow denying the relevance of the pandemic, but this never happened with the CDS. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Mr President, the problem is that opening exceptions to politics is always a mistake, because one loses authority when policy is allowed what is not allowed to others. And that's why we criticized not the organization, because the organised PCP is, but the opportunity of the Front Party! [[Protests of PCP Members.]] What the Liberal Initiative did this weekend not only removes any critical legitimacy to those who criticized others in the past, as is the same in worse because it did not even have the capacity of organisation, more or less Soviet, that had the PCP. Mrs Deputy, it was the same as there was a party in Portugal called 'democratic party' and said that 'the only Democrats are us'. It is not because we demand freedom that we have freedom as an exclusive, because it is clear that freedom is a right of all those who defend it. For us, Mrs Deputies, there is a doctrinal difference — and let me put it through the doctrine of my party — between what we call an arbitrary book, which is the exercise of freedom based on a concept of responsibility, and pure individualism. It is that pure individualism, the « I can do what I want», ends up giving in negationism and can obviously compromise other people and their lives. And that's what I'm saying about some events, especially even football events. They are important arguments to say « we will make an event at night to demonstrate that the restoration must be open» or « we will do an event to demonstrate that everything is perfect in Portugal», and may even be relevant to those people, but may then compromise days, weeks or months of the life of entrepreneurs, hotels, tourism and restoration. That is why it is not an exercise of freedom, it is, in my opinion, an exercise of irresponsibility, and from this point of view, I agree with you, Mr Deputies. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u41	We will initiate requests for clarification to the Government. The Bureau noted the inclusion of 13 Mrs. Members, to whom the Government will respond, first, to six and then to seven. The first to make your request for clarification is Mr. Rui Cristina, from the PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Health, I was amazed by his statements, and not only by his statements, but also by those of Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes. If everything has been done so well, if everything is so well in the country, why is Portugal the only one on the edge of the fourth wave? Oh, my God! Explain to me, because I don't understand! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u43	Watch out for that sentence! Let's not forget that phrase!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u44	As we move on, we know that vaccination is the main form of protection of people against the COVID-19 virus and we also know that the process of vaccination, which has been underway for more than half a year, has benefited greatly from the exit of the previous task force coordinator...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u46	...and its replacement by Vice Admiral Gouvea and Melo. during these months, the PSD has followed the effort made by the health authority and the professionals of the SNS, especially in the case of nurses, in order to ensure the vaccination of the Portuguese population against the COVID-19. And we welcome in particular the sense of responsibility of the Portuguese and their adherence to the vaccines that have been made available. However, what already deserves some criticism is the recurrent and known geographical inequalities that are occurring in the vaccination process, such as in the Algarve region, one of the most late in this process and, in fact, until a few days ago, only 38 % of the algae received the first dose and 24 % received the second dose, when the national average is 42 % and 25%, respectively. from there a first question: what measures are planned to balance the process of vaccination against COVID-19 at national level and, in particular, to accelerate it in the Algarve? It is, of course, one of the most backward regions in this process and it is one of the most tourist regions that receives and where the socio-economic crisis is more felt. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to raise another question concerning testing. This week, the government launched chaos in the country on the testing process at public events, especially cultural events, and, two days ago, the DGS brought out a standard in which it determined that they should — the term is imperative! — tests are carried out in the case of events of a family nature, including weddings, christenings, birthdays, where the number of participants exceeds 10. This standard also imposes testing in cultural or sporting events where the number of participants or spectators is greater than 1000 in open or more than 500 environments in closed environments. Next, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Health said that testing is not mandatory, after all, but rather, and I quote, "strongly recommended". He also said that people should be prevented from participating in events if they are not tested, but that is to adapt gradually. I mean, Mr. Secretary of State, with these inconsistencies, makes the government fall into its most complete ridicule. On this floor, the Minister of Health will, of course, arrive in the Government of António Costa! What Portuguese people want to know, once and for all, is whether tests for the detection of VOCID are mandatory at family events with more than 10 participants and whether they are mandatory at cultural or sports events with more than 1000 spectators in open or 500 in closed environments. In the case of these cultural or sporting events, while testing is mandatory, does the Government recognise that it has a duty to bear the costs of testing? In conclusion, realizing that it is not possible to test all those who participate in these events, the government now comes, in one more experience—I can only consider this as an experience! — to say that digital certificates can replace tests in weddings, christenings and birthdays, as well as cultural and sporting events. What I ask you is very simple, Secretary of State: how does the Government intend to implement this new measure, especially in the case of family meetings with more than 10 people? Who's going to check? The security forces? DGS? ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority )? Does anyone believe that this measure is practical in the terms in which it was announced? We don't believe it! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u47	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mr Secretary of State, the Country, and in particular the Region of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, are experiencing an undeniable increase in the pandemic. Many weeks ago, we are witnessing an increase in the number of cases, which seem to be accelerating in recent days. There are some who say—probably, with much reason— that we are watching the embryo of a fourth wave in the country. It may obviously be because of new variants that you knew they would appear, as the population was being vaccinated. But it was also certainly because testing capacity has never been properly exploited by the government, and the Left Block has been alerted to this for months. The Minister of Health, several months ago, said that Portugal had a testing capacity of 100 000 tests per day, but we never, ever, achieved this test capacity—in fact, a few days ago, the country had dropped its daily testing almost for values that were practiced at the time of confinement. Therefore, it is true that there are new variants, but it is also true that the government has not taken advantage of testing capacity. And it is also true that at certain times — and at very recent times — he has had a very bad health communication. Today, we again experience an increase in the pandemic, but with an additional problem: it is an increase in the pandemic, an increase in pressure on the National Health Service, which continues to fight the pandemic alone, but it is also an increase at a time when there is an exit of professionals from the National Health Service. We heard about 50 professionals who left the IPO (English Institute of Oncology) in Lisbon in the last few weeks, but for example, looking at the National Health Service Transparency Portal, we also see that between March and May this year, therefore, in the last two months, some 600 professionals have already left the SNS. In fact, in March 2021 — data from the SNS — there were 148 235 professionals and in May 2021 — data from the SNS — there were 147,646 professionals, i.e. less than 600 professionals, at a time when the pandemic was once again growing in the country. The truth is that during the whole pandemic - more than one year of pandemic - we have heard from the Government, as we have heard today from the Under-Secretary of State and Health, a verbal gratitude to health professionals but which is not at least accompanied by acts, behaviour or measures of the Government. In other words, gratitude in words often corresponded to a symmetry of ingratitude in acts to health professionals, and I believe that this ingratitude is being greatly felt by health professionals. in the last year and a half, the government has not been able to capture, fix, value health professionals and that is why they are now leaving, because they do not feel valued, after a period in which they were giving everything they had — and often what they did not have — to the country and to the National Health Service. It is not enough to say, as I said in the case of the Lisbon IPO, that contracts will be allowed, because the government knows, probably much better than we, that many of these contests, which may be authorized, will become fatally deserts. In fact, this is the history of the final competitions, for example, for the hiring of doctors, in which more than a third were deserts. It is that the reason is earlier and this is this: there are no professional careers worthy to capture professionals, there is no remuneration that is worthy of health professionals, there are no working conditions that have been strengthened or improved by the government. So what the Left Block would like to ask the Government at the moment is whether, before this exit of professionals, it is now that it will finally advance with fundamental proposals that should have been applied for a long time now—and that the Left Block proposed for the State Budget for 2021, but that all were rejected by the Government—such as the review of careers, the increase in professional remuneration and the issue of exclusivity for the National Health Service. I wonder if it is now, once and for all, that the Government finally admits the need it did not admit during the discussion of the State budget for 2021. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u49	For clarifications, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we congratulate the CDS on its relevance. Certainly, it will not be the last time this House will look at the management of the post- pandemic, a pandemic that is still very present, as we are reminded by the backwardness of the measures imposed for the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon (AML), which will enter into force as of today. The pandemic is not a solved issue and many of its consequences and successive confinements are still unknown. Recovery, despite demanding complex processes, knows part of the solution in the State Budget for 2021. The government has the levers for this recovery, which only does not apply if it does not want to. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens have always shown great concern about primary care. If it is true that the National Health Service gave a very important response, when others closed their doors to the unknown, it is not understood the option of closing almost total primary health care, a little throughout the country. It is to health centers that the elderly, the most vulnerable, resort, to follow up on chronic diseases, to prescribe medications, but also to feel accompanied, to be heard, finding in the doctor and in the family nurse a friend shoulder. With closed health centres, with conditioned hours, without staff to answer the telephones, to make the necessary and required hygiene in pandemic time, without the proper spaces to receive patients with the restrictions imposed, it is not possible to recover the consultations that were delayed and return to normality, to a more strengthened normality. Thus, there are numerous questions on this subject: health centers continue to be in the middle of gas, with limited hours and poor telephone service; presence consultations remain very limited, prevailing telephone consultations; several health extensions are still closed, that I give you only the example of Campia, in Vouzela Town Hall, one of those places where public transports are scarce or even non-existent; and there are health centers whose schedules have not yet been restored, as is the case of Oliveira de Frades and even Almada. The chronic lack of health professionals, to which the CDS, when passing through the government, contributed, of clinical secretaries and operational assistants for primary health care, became even more visible, because many health and administrative professionals were affected by vaccination, making it difficult to respond to users. When will the government make the investment in primary health care so necessary, especially for the inhabitants of the interior, where access to the nearest hospital is an additional expense to the reform parks? What guarantees can you give us here, as regards the guarantee of stability of workers who have been hired to respond to COVID? Can they count on employment, or will they be put in unemployment at the first opportunity? The SEP (Sunion of Portuguese Nurses ) has already denounced the risk of this happening to thousands of nurses. Are we now going to have a generation of heroes in unemployment?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u51	For clarifications, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Health, what the epidemiological situation reveals is that what the government needs to do, the measures it needs to take are measures in the field of public health. When the CFP here stresses the need to track, test and vaccinate and, of course, to ensure social support for all workers and the population they need, these must be the priorities adopted. The Secretary of State also referred in his speech to the priority given to vaccination. Well, Mr Secretary of State, then let us see what needs to be done in this regard, because in fact the data reveal the importance and effectiveness of vaccination. For this, it is necessary to increase this capacity. Increase this capacity, recovering delays, through the provision of more vaccines, but also by strengthening the capacity of the vaccination centres themselves with more workers, in order to allow the vaccination process to be more rapid. There are, therefore, several aspects here that need to be taken into account. So I ask: what is the government doing to make us have more vaccines in our country? What is the government doing to make more nurses, more workers in vaccination centers? It is not worth pushing for the authorities, because this is a responsibility of the government, and the government has to take on and not take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u54	What is the government doing to increase testing? And I ask what is being done not in the paper, but in reality, so that this test is effective and that there is a faster identification of positive cases. I want to ask you two or three more questions. The first concerns strengthening public health teams. It is not enough to say that we are strengthening, Mr Secretary of State, because, before a sign of increased incidence and cases, the weaknesses of the public health teams, as well as their difficulties, come to the top. The important thing is not only to strengthen these teams, so that they have an effective and rapid response capability at the moment we live, but also to have a structured intervention, to give these teams capacity in their intervention. In his speech, I did not hear words regarding public health, public health that is essential to respond not only at this time, but also in possible future situations. I end with one last question: what measures is the Government taking to prevent workers, who have been hired in the context of the epidemic, from leaving the National Health Service, but who are integrated into a career with rights? It is that they are needed today and tomorrow. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u55	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u56	Mr. President, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Mr. Secretary of State brought us, in addition to some rhetoric, which I have already commented on, a sort of a global report of activities in your area and in your Ministry. What I asked you most was, in a very direct and very concrete way, to answer some of the questions, which, moreover, have already been put here, of the moment and on this situation. It is that the situation is, in fact, worrying and these measures being taken may or may not be sufficient. I have asked you very specific questions, Mr Secretary of State, such as: do you have any explanation and monitoring for these cases of infections in people already vaccinated, in some cases at both doses? Do you think that specific measures are necessary for young people, or that it will be necessary, or not, to anticipate, in the case of university students, vaccination? The testing and screening plan, especially in schools, began, or did it not, late and will it be, or will it be, strictly fulfilled? These are very concrete issues, at a time when the pandemic seems to actually be entering a fourth wave. And we already realize that, at these difficult times, it is necessary to react—and react in anticipation and not run after the damage. I would therefore ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to answer these specific questions I have asked you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u57	in this block of questions, the last one is Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday, by resolution of the Council of Ministers, we learned that the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon would be conditioned in its travels at the end of the week, as a result of the concern that lives with the number of infections, hospitalizations and deaths and also with that which is indicated as a new variant of the virus. However, this topic of the new variant is not new—in fact, at the last meetings of Infarmed (National Medicines and Health Products Authority), several times spoke about it. This is a fundamental issue and is related to public health policies. If since the beginning of this health crisis one of the assurances that we have quickly had was the importance of testing, tracking, monitoring and anticipating this virus in the community, in a perspective of not running after the damage, it is important now and now to realize what the government has done about this new variant at the level of public health. This is because if we look at the whole process, in view of the one who has been the clear failure of the number of public health professionals per capita throughout this process, we can draw some conclusions, and they are not in favour of the government. And let us remember here: when we had structural problems regarding the number of public health professionals, what the government decided to do was to seek out environmental health technicians, seek out other health professionals, dislocating them from areas as important as, for example, medical boards, failing a state duty on equality in access to social support for people with disabilities and for people with chronic illness, or oncological disease. The government has opted for a policy of remedy, for a policy of kicking off to cover the head, and that, indeed, cannot continue. Therefore, at the level of public health, what we want is to get concrete answers. That is, when is it actually going to be fulfilled the ratio provided for in the law of a public health professional for 25,000 inhabitants? This is an aspect on which, of course, we have to present our criticism: in view of the need of public health professionals, the first competition opened on 12 August, only for doctors specialists in public health. When will the government actually recognize that, in addition to the competitions it has already opened, there are other public health specialists from other health areas? Since we are talking about public health, we cannot stop talking about environmental health and the importance of these professionals in the protection of human health. We are well aware of the importance these professionals have in monitoring the various institutions, in controlling water quality, in controlling air quality and ventilation. They do indeed prevent a number of Community communicable diseases. But these professionals are also clearly insufficient. In fact, the law ratio of 1 per 15 000 inhabitants since 2009 remains to be met. At the headquarters of State Budget for 2021, this guarantee of strengthening environmental health technicians was entered. We would be talking about a need to achieve this ratio of 1 per 15 000 inhabitants, a reinforcement of 303 environmental health technicians, which would hopefully be what should happen, and this indication must be given by the Government. But we are scared, Mr. Secretary of State of Health! The Ministry of Health issued an order that limits the hiring of these professionals to a third of the needs. Therefore, it limits to 110 environmental health technicians. We already realize that we are not going to miss the 303, but what we want to know is this: when are we going to have the 110 that the government assumes it will hire? We also ask whether this answer will take as long as the psychologists' competition for the National Health Service has taken place since 2018. Mr. Secretary of State of Health, three years back, we still don't have 40 psychologists in the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u59	You have the word to answer, Under-Secretary of State and Health, Antonio Sales.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Deputies Rui Cristina, Moisés Ferreira, Mariana Silva, Paula Santos, Telmo Correia and Bebiana With the questions they asked. Mr. Rui Cristina, started by saying he was overwhelmed. Well, I would say that we abysmates are left when we realize that the opposition, which should be responsible, does not say anything when Portugal is in a better situation than the other countries in Europe. Mr President, that is not really the most important thing. We're not on a country ranking. This is a struggle for humanity, in which, of course, there is much uncertainty and in which we certainly continue to ignore many situations. So, Mr. Deputies, you don't have to get dizzy. You have to realize that we have to adjust our policies to the evolution of the pandemic itself. On the communication, which he also mentioned, we recognize that communication is indeed a challenging exercise of the pandemic. But one thing is certain: the opposition has not contributed to this improvement either. Often, they do not read the documents and prefer noise and politicism to read the documents carefully. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u61	Don't we read the papers? Oh, my God! Honestly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u62	Mr Rui Cristina also spoke about geographical inequalities. Mr, at present in the North, 41% of the population has already taken the first dose of the vaccine and 27% the second dose. In the Centre, 48 % had already taken the first dose and 29 % had the second dose. In Lisbon and Tejo Valley ( LVT ), 41% already took the first dose and 20% the second dose. In Alentejo, 50 % has already taken the first dose and 30 % of the population already has full vaccination. In Algarve, 38 % has already taken the first dose and 24 % of the population already has full vaccination. Mr President, we are making an effort to give greater equity to the different regions, and the figures I have presented to them, all of them, however, are very similar. Obviously, epidemiological developments in each region are different, and this is something we must be aware of. With regard to Norma 019 / 2020, as regards testing, Mr Rui Cristina, I can tell you that I was very explicit. Where the resolution of the Council of Ministers (RCM) says 'can', we have to say, of course, in the standard of testing, 'we recommend'. We recommend to some entities, such as companies, the Public Administration and others. Where the RCM says « must » there is only one meaning in Portuguese: it is « to be obliged to». I repeat:'mus' means 'be obliged to'. Therefore, they should be forced to test at family events, weddings and, as I have already said, at other possible cultural events. He also spoke on the issue of supervision. Of course, there is co-responsibility by the promoters in this monitoring, as well as by the authorities, as is also significant, particularly in sampling situations. Cost support in cultural events—we have already said it and said it again—is certainly attributable to the final consumer. Mr. Moisés Ferreira also spoke in the test. Mr. Deputies, we did more than 12 million tests and we have 162 laboratories to test. In fact, we're doing more than a million tests. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, we are working and strengthening testing, particularly in regions where epidemiological developments so require, as is the case with the Lisbon Region and Tejo Valley. With regard to health professionals, trying to answer all questions cross-cuttingly, I mean that this government has established a clear human resources policy, a structural investment policy in the most valuable heritage of the National Health Service, which are indeed human resources. I recall that, compared to December 2015, there was a net increase of 28 000 professionals: 6000 doctors, 10 000 nurses and 1800 superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. This Government also entered into a commitment to hire 8400 professionals between 2020 and 2021. I would also like to remind you, Mr Moisés Ferreira, that this way of commitment goes by the law of the State budget, in particular by Articles 276. o, 278. o, 279. o, 296. o is 297. the, through which, and with Dispatch No. 4794 -A / 2021, will be able to make 2474 new contracts, of which 1370 in primary health care. Intensive care units will be able to hire 884 workers and public health units, also responding to the question about public health, 220 workers, with employment contracts in public functions for indefinite time, being 110 specialist nurses and 110 superior technicians in the area of diagnosis and therapy. On the question of Mrs Mariana Silva on measures for the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, as we know, the cumulative incidence of 14 days ago per 100,000 inhabitants in the municipality has been a growing trend since the beginning of May. This is a situation that concerns us, of course, and which must be seen as a warning sign. Reinforcement : alert, not alarm. We know that population density and pendulum movements are, in fact, much larger, making this dispersion much greater as well. Therefore, we must act in an articulated, preventive and proactive way, in agreement, in fact, with the Plan to Promote the Operationalization of the Test Strategy and, of course, also with vaccination. in this sense, in order to contain the increase in incidence that has occurred, the resolution of the Council of Ministers of yesterday, which they know and which has been approved, provides for the prohibition of movement to the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon at the end of the week, between 15 hours on 18 and 6 hours on 21 June. Like what happened in the prohibition of movement between municipalities, these are exactly the same exceptions that will be applied to this prohibition. I refer to Article 3. that of the RCM, which refers in turn to the exceptions of Article 11. Decree No 9 / 2020. With regard to the assistance movement, which we have also been asked about by several Members. Members, I would say that, in fact, in primary health care, we had more than 2 million and 400 thousand medical consultations, about 25, 9 %, in the first quarter of the year — January, February, March and April — for the same period of 2020. We have more 2 million and 400 thousand consultations, we have more 400 000 consultations in hospital care and more 39 000 surgeries. Mrs. Members, in the oncology area, which is an area that we are so concerned about, having in December 2020 about 5800 people on a waiting list for oncology surgery, I mean, in an optimistic word, that during the first four months of 2021 we managed to solve about 70% of this list, i.e. the situation of nearly 4000 users who expected this oncology surgery. Mrs Paula Santos raised a question about vaccination nurses. Mrs Deputy, we are hiring in the schemes you know: normal work arrangements, supplementary work arrangements and service provision. These are the regimes and the legal frameworks that we currently have. According to the indications given to RSA(regional health administrations) and management bodies, we are obviously strengthening. There were indications to strengthen these human resources, also through new contracts, as you know from January 1 to June 31. Therefore, the Ministry of Health contracts and always fulfills its tables, also according to its own work organization. Mr Telmo Correia, I would like to say that the question of infection in people with vaccination is, in fact, our concern. But I also tell you, Mr, that we have about 1000 infected and about 5 deaths in 6, 6 million infected people. I would say that in the number of infected, it is less than 0, 1 % and, in the number of deaths, it is less than 0, 08 %. So these are tiny numbers. Anyway, we're worried about all the numbers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u63	Is it being monitored or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u64	We are certainly monitoring, together with the Directorate-General for Health, and, of course, always concerned, because a life is a life. Therefore, this concern remains, and we will give this information as soon as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u65	We're going into the second block of questions. Mr Helga Correia spoke for the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I welcome the CDS for bringing to debate a relevant topic. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot speak in economic and social recovery without talking about measures and policies to support families and thus alert to the end of banking moratoriums for families. This is a concern already demonstrated by the PSD, which we reaffirm at a time when families once again paid monthly benefits, in many cases without financial means to do so. We cannot speak of economic and social concern without warning the problem of the sustainability of social security. We cannot speak in economic and social recovery, when the government burys its head in the sand and is unable to adopt public policies capable of responding to the effective needs of businesses, workers and families, as was demonstrated in the debate yesterday. We cannot speak in economic and social recovery without talking about the underfinancing of social solidarity institutions, institutions that replace the State in support of the most vulnerable and are in line with support for people. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Social Democratic Party again alerts to the underfinancing of these institutions, which are, in many cases, the largest employer in the region where they are inserted. It's not us, PSD, that we say it. Even this week, in Portalegre, on the PSD parliamentary days, we have heard even alerts from institutions that support people in the field. For all this, it's important to know, sirs. State Secretaries, whether companies, persons and institutions may or may not rely on the Government, whether the Government is concerned about the sustainability of social security and what measures it will take. Is the Government willing to review the cooperation agreements with private institutions of social solidarity or will it do as it has so far, that is to say that it is nothing with you? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot speak in economic and social recovery without worrying about the weakest and cannot speak in economic and social recovery without speaking in inclusion. [[Protests by PS Deputies Carlos Pereira and Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are very nervous, but they'll have your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u67	Nervous? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u68	in this sense, we take advantage of the presence in this debate of the Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities to say that the government is failing with people with disabilities. The government has been creating expectations. The Government and the Socialist Party in this House have said that they will present the study of the early reform of disabled people. They said they would present it until the end of the year, later they said it would be until the end of March 2021 and, arrived in mid June 2021, the Secretary of State, we did not know the study. It is important to know if they really will make the study available and when they will.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u69	Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u70	To conclude, and on the subject of the vaccination certificate, addressed in this debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u71	Look, I've got mine here!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u72	... it should be noted that not all Portuguese have digital means and not all have the same digital literature as you have. [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Pedrosa.]] So we are concerned about responding to all Portuguese, without leaving anyone behind. The PSD Parliamentary Group yesterday presented an initiative with a view to setting up a counter to support the obtaining of Green Digital Certificate in vaccination centres, allowing vaccinated citizens to obtain the certificate from the end of their vaccination scheme. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u73	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Mr João Dias, from the CFP, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State Antonio Lacerda Sales, I would like to say to you that we are faced with another pandemic, a silent pandemic, resulting from suspended health care. And this fights with the investment that the National Health Service lacks, whose need is chronic and which has now emphasized more. Access to health care is concerned, from the outset, in prevention, diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation, whether in the area of mental health, whether in the area of oncology or in the area of diabetes, whether in the area of hypertension, several areas in which the population lacks investment. And I ask you of course what is being done, Mr. Secretary of State, to combat this silent pandemic that needs an answer. We understand that it is necessary to guarantee what is essential, which is the strengthening of the investment in the National Health Service, to give it the future he needs. We cannot allow a business to be made of health, because it is a right, and it is a right that only the National Health Service can fulfill. It is in this sense that I would like to ask you a very specific question and that has to do with the implementation of the State budget. Mr Secretary of State has already said that you are fulfilling the article by article, but you know that it is not true. Much remains to be done about the State budget. of the 35 proposals presented by the CFP, there was a set of them that were approved. in this State budget are the tools needed to cope not only with the pandemic but also with the significant delay in health care that are suspended. It is in this sense, Mr Secretary of State, that I would like to ask you whether the Government is available to abdicate its insistence on non-compliance and move on to comply with what is in the State budget, ensuring the necessary care for the population. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u75	You now have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mrs Telma Guerreiro of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u76	Mr. President, Mrs. State Secretary, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not surprised by the statements that the PSD has been bringing to this debate because we realize that it is difficult for the PSD to understand and recognize certain facts. The former Government of the Socialist Party recovered the SNS; the current Government of the Socialist Party strengthened the health budget before the pandemic. With the pandemic crisis, the Government of the Socialist Party continued to strengthen the budget and invest in the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] At the time of thinking of recovering Portugal, through the PRR, the Socialist Party Government assumes as one of its priorities health. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The right of this Parliament may not want to see, but Portuguese and Portuguese are witnesses to the indisputable strengthening of the SNS and the robust response that the SNS has been able to give in the most difficult hours of the pandemic we live in. This was possible, contrary to what has often been vaccinated by the right, because the SNS has professionals of excellence, who have been strengthened, as has already been very well demonstrated here. And still yesterday, in the words of the Pharmacist Order Office, we could once again perceive a clear greeting to the government for compliance with the reinforcement and consideration of this profession. It was possible because digitization is a reality. It was possible because beds were reinforced in intensive care. It was possible because the SNS24 line was strengthened in capacity and diversity of responses. It was possible because, after all, the vaccination process, contrary to what Mr Rui Rio said here, in recent times, was no asselhice, it was, and it is, a national pride that gives us security and hope in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also remember that this vaccination process is not only a success from the moment Mr. Vice-Admirante enters. And we do not, in any way, withdraw competence from either Mr. Vice Admiral or Dr. Francisco Ramos. What happens—and we all recognize—is that the vaccination process runs very well and that progresses when there are vaccines in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Did everything go well all the time? No, everything didn't always go well at all times, not in Portugal, not in the world! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u77	But this is where Portuguese and Portuguese perceive the difference between direct action on the left and right in governance. In the PSD/CDS government, in the face of a crisis, the political option was to double the cuts in the SNS than those recommended by the troika. For the socialist government, the political option was to strengthen services and public responses, affirming the social state as the great stabilizer in the governance and life of people, bringing balance in social responses, health responses and the economy. In view of the analysis of the contexts, the right does its best,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u78	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u79	...the populist speech. The Government of the Socialist Party is looking for decisions with courage. Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, if it is important - and I will conclude, Mr. President - that the Portuguese understand the rational policy of the Socialist Party Government since 2015, which has defended, recovered and modernized the SNS, it is also important that they realize the importance of the Recovery and Resilience Plan. Therefore, I ask you to explain to the Portuguese and Portuguese how they will feel in their lives, in their daily lives, the improvements of what this recovery of the country will be through the PRR. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u80	Mrs Mariana Silva, from the ENP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the time to debate how to resume. It is true that we are still with some imponderable ones, but we must resume life and economic and social activities and, for that, two elements are needed: support and clarity in information. If the first ones are scarce and come late — how many times too late — the second, at least in some sectors, does not exist at all, which creates numerous difficulties for those who want to safely develop their activities. The case of culture is perhaps the most paradigmatic, and that is why we continue to watch the fighting actions of the agents of the sector. But today we bring here the problems of disabled citizens, particularly affected by the epidemic. These people, to a large extent, with various associated diseases, need regular medical follow-up, so many times with reduced mobility, and were subject to a double isolation situation. If they needed support before, they needed more support now. It is essential to trace, resume contacts and connections, it is urgent to resume the functioning of associative and specialized structures. But there are problems that existed before the pandemic. Disability bonus is an addition to family allowance for children and young people that is attributed when, due to congenital or acquired loss or anomaly, of psychological, intellectual, physiological or anatomical structure or function, the child or young person needs pedagogical or therapeutic support. Children up to 10 years of age who required disability bonus from 1 October 2019 are entitled to bonus. Children and young people with disabilities under 24 years of age who were holders of disability bonus on 30 September 2019 retain the right to bonus while maintaining the conditions that gave rise to their allocation. Despite these essential additions to family allowance, many are still families who do not know about this bonus due to lack of information, for example for children who attend speech therapy. On the other hand, it also came to the Greens' knowledge that, even though the parents had submitted requests at the end of 2019 to obtain their family allowance bonus, so far the proceedings have not yet been analyzed or referred to by social security, harming their families and children. Does the Government confirm that there are parents who have been waiting for more than one year for the analysis of their applications for disability benefit in the family allowance? Has the government disclosed this bonus of family allowance to families with children or young people with disabilities, especially at this time when all support is important for anyone to stay behind? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u82	Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I finished the last intervention to speak of mental health and to ask Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health if it would indeed be in 2021 that we would see the competitive procedures of the 40 psychologists for the SNS completed. Perhaps Mr. Secretary of State can respond at the next opportunity. But speaking in mental health, I would also take this opportunity to ask whether the one who has come to be a demand from the Director of the National Mental Health Programme, to create a mission structure for the implementation of mental health policies, precisely with the European funds that we will, of course, be able to allocate to strengthen these policies, has already had a response by the Government or if you already have a position on the part of the Government. Speaking of mental health, it is also necessary to speak of young people and their demands for more effective responses for better access to mental health. A particular group of young people whose request for help increased during this health crisis and in the post-emergency is the group of young people who lived in residential care. These young people do not have an easy life in their empowerment, in that, after reaching the majority, they can enter the labour market, therefore there is an increased need for specific policies for the inclusion of these young people. We would like to know whether the government is available for this, whether it has this matter signalled and what it will do on purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u84	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, I have listened carefully to your speech and your answers. In terms of recovery of activity in primary health care, it is the doctors themselves who say — I am not telling you — that they will give a note to users asking for understanding of the delays that are taking place. And warn them until it gets worse. I know that there was an office of the Minister in March to create a system of incentives for recovery, while doctors were diverted to vaccination. But one thing doesn't play with the other, and that's why these things happen. Mr. Secretary of State may continue to make comparisons with the year 2020, but it would be serious to make comparisons with the year 2019, which was a regular year, because otherwise it is cheating. It's just that half the time has been closed, which is natural, so it's better that I wasn't getting back. In fact, the Minister of Health assured at the National Congress of the Medical Order at the beginning of June that there was a very strong recovery of the care activity at all levels. Anyway, I'd like to believe that. And, yes, we know that the services are working for this recovery, but the truth is that not only is it not enough, because this comparison with 2020 is artificial, as in addition to the goals defined in the State Budget for 2021 — and the Secretary of State knows this very well — in terms of consultations and surgeries, are below those defined in the years 2017, 2018 and 2019. So there's no ambition out there! But that's not even the point. The point is that it is clear that, because of many financial resources that are placed above the health system, they will not arrive. And it's not because of the lack of work of health professionals, it's because there's a limit on the SNS' ability to give that answer. This is not ideology, it is pure and simple pragmatism. Therefore, if the average waiting times for consultations and surgeries were already difficult before—it is a structural problem of our health system—the truth is that they have not improved much now. I can give you examples for the Secretary of State and for everyone to confront the hardness of these numbers. An example: March 2021, cardiology consultation, in Guarda — 1511 days of waiting. Another example, not to mention low-density territories: Dona Estefânia Hospital, an orthopaedic surgery, very priority— 124 days of waiting instead of 15. This is an area that Mr. Secretary of State knows well. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, the issue will not be resolved only by making laudatory proclamations to the SNS. I have told you this once and I will say again: I have a faith, I have even a faith founded...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u86	It's interesting!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u87	Faith is the right word, but it is a rational faith based on the following idea: Mr. Chief of the Prime Minister's Office, Prof. Vítor Escaria, one month before being head of office, he was a teacher at ISEG ( Superior Institute of Economics and Management) and produced a document that says « it is necessary to extend support mechanisms, such as the system of vale surgery, to other health services such as, for example, medical consultations and examinations, as a way of mitigating high waiting times».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u88	That's an opinion article!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u89	I therefore place a lot of faith in Mr. Chief of Staff of the Prime Minister in the discussions he has in the Council of Ministers, or where you are, do this pedagogy that he had when he was Secretary of State, for the benefit of the users.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u90	It's not faith! It's interest!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u91	In conclusion, I would say that there was a lot of talk about inconsistencies, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes spoke a lot about inconsistencies. There is one I particularly like to put before Mr. Secretary of State, to see if we can help.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u92	Please conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u93	I will finish, Mr. President. In the Committee on Health, she asked a few years ago to say that in terms of PPP (public-private partnership ), they were very much to wish with regard to the provision during the time of COVID and that they did not give the help they should have given. It is extraordinary that the same Minister of Health who said this went to visit the PPP hospitals to deliver a certificate that says: "In recognition of the work carried out by the exceptional commitment of health professionals, within the scope of the COVID-19 pandemic". So what are we staying on? Were they closed or had an exceptional performance? For inconsistencies, I think we're talking. And it is a good time to seal this debate! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u94	For a final request for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u95	A sardine! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u96	It's gonna be an arraiial!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u97	I haven't even started yet. [[Pause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mr Secretary of State for Health, I have one or two important requests for clarification to make to you, but first I cannot help telling Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes and, through social communication, her advertising department, that this attempt will not work to hold the liberal camp accountable for all that is happening in Lisbon... [[PS protests.]] It is not an event with hundreds of outdoors that will pass over the responsibilities of unplanned events with thousands of people, besides that the pandemic data in Lisbon are growing for weeks, it is not something yesterday! [[PS protests.]] And if you want to take responsibility, you have a very good theme for it, 48 hours: a few days ago there were hundreds of people at the door of the Justice Camp, having some last night to be able to renew the citizen's card or get it. And many of them are undocumented immigrants, so they certainly do not have access to tests or vaccination. [[PS protests.]] They've been together and the government hasn't done anything at all! You want responsibilities? Find it there! With the Liberal Initiative, it will not make propaganda work. It's ugly enough not to take responsibility, but pass it on to others much more ugly is! [[PS protests.]] I must also tell Mr Telmo Correia that I very much agree with you that there are various types of negationism. One of them is to think that it is equal a Front Party made before winter, with 0% of the vaccinated population, and an arraial made at the doors of summer, with 43% of the vaccinated population. That's negationism too. [[PS and PCP protests.]] Let me tell you that if the only crisis here is that we have not been Soviet enough, because I think this is a great, great compliment! [[Northern Cristovão PSD member's laughs.]] Mr. Secretary of State for Health, I want to say the following: New University recently concluded that 25% of Portuguese have stopped going to SNS. Mr. Secretary of State, 25% of Portuguese stopped going to SNS during the pandemic, but 18% of them went to the private sector during the same period. [[Protests of PS Members.]] In primary care consultations — minus 15 % in SNS, plus 5 % in private; in specialist consultations — minus 8 % in SNS, plus 13 % in private; examinations and other diagnostic methods — minus 6 % in SNS, plus 8 % in private; episodes of urgency — minus 7% in SNS, plus 3 % in private. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, my first question is to help me bury the myth, that BE and the PCP try so hard to demonstrate in this House that the privates did not help in the pandemic and did not help the collapse of the SNS, and saying that in fact the role of the privates was essential and continues to be essential. But it is considered that, in the future, complementing the public, private and social sectors can help to recover the enormous delays that we still have in consultation and surgery. The second question concerns the digital vaccination certificate. It was known a few days ago that an instrument that was supposed to be just to ensure travel abroad safely will become used in various circumstances of our internal life. We will have to have time to discuss the exact details, but I want to ask two specific questions: what was the National Data Protection Commission's statement on the use of this tool? And how is the data safeguarded? And was there any analysis and testing done by the National Cybersecurity Centre regarding the security of the personal data that this certificate implies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u98	Having completed the requests for clarification, I give the floor to Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Antonio Lacerda Sales, to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u99	Mr President, thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies Helga Correia, João Dias, Telma Guerreiro, Mariana Silva, Diana Cunha, Ana Rita Bessa and João Cotrim de Figueiredo the questions they raised. Mrs Helga Correia, allow me to tell you that if vaccination is going well, the fight against this pandemic must admit this, it is clear that it is also going well. So this is an unequivocal situation. For the digital green certificate, since June 17, through the SNS portal, it has become possible to obtain it. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] In fact, Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa is showing one who has just obtained, which is a certificate that has the components of vaccination certificate, test certificate and recovery certificate. I recall that according to the European Digital Certificate Regulation, European verification systems should all be in force from 1 July. Mr João Dias, yes, measure the measure, article to article, we are fulfilling our commitments in the law of the State budget. Mrs Telma Guerreiro, on the PRR : increased responses to primary health care — 463 million; wagered on the national network of continuing care — 205 million; completion of mental health reform — 85 million; equipment of the hospitals of Seixal, Sintra and Lisbon — 196 million; and digital transition — 300 million. Mrs Bebiana Cunha, as you know, nutritionists' contests have already ended. With regard to the competitions of psychologists that you mentioned, I spoke with Mr. Bastonário of the Order of Psychologists, who will collaborate in the constitution of judges and we will try that by the end of the year these contests may be completed. I did not want to make this commitment here, because it may not happen and we may have to extend to the beginning of 2022, but we will certainly make every effort to complete these tenders by the end of 2021. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, as you have heard recently, in fact, there is a strengthening of the care activity. The numbers are what they are. You know, of course, recognize them. There is indeed a strengthening of the care activity for 2020. As to comparing 2020 with 2021, notice that we had two bad months in 2020, as we had two bad months in 2021, so we are comparing homologous periods. Similar periods should be compared. I have said several times that we do not have ideological prejudices, Mrs. Deputy. What we have is a constitutional orientation and a Health Bases Act that we comply with and, obviously, we favour the National Health Service and we use the complementarity of the social sector and the private sector to do so, as it has, indeed, happened. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo referred to some figures, such as that of 25 % of the Portuguese who chose by the private sector. I would like to tell you, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, that, in the same sustainability index as you are referring, and that was published on 15 June, 73, 2 % of Portuguese people trust the National Health Service and declare that there was an excellent response from the National Health Service to this pandemic. [[IL protests.]] It is important, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, that you look at this sustainability index and see this number too. And, Mr President, with all due respect, you will allow me to tell you that popular parties, at least, had the opportunity to show how much we can count on the Liberal Initiative for pandemic control. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, we therefore expect greater responsibility, greater wisdom and exercise of their rights, of course, but also of their duties as a public health officer in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u100	We now move on to the intervention period. To this end, Mrs Diana Santos of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: At a time when we are thinking about the future, it is good to note that the government banned the movement of and to the Lisbon Metropolitan Area yesterday, which just shows that we are not yet free of the pandemic. The pandemic has exposed the human rights fragility of disabled people as well as their families. The latest report People with Disabilities in Portugal — Human Rights Indicators 2020 shows that in June last year there were 13,270 people with disabilities registered as unemployed in employment centres, with a 10 % increase in comparison to the overall 2019 data. My first question is: what specific proposals does the Government have to reverse these numbers, in particular in support of employers and in monitoring compliance with quota law? It is known, Mr Secretary of State, that all persons with disabilities — and I repeat, all — face a greater risk of contracting COVID-19 either because of existing health conditions, contact with mobility or communication support objects and, above all, the inevitable close contact with their caregivers, formal or informal, or providers of support services. We recall that according to the World Health Organization ( WHO ), people with disabilities are categorized as vulnerable populations in emergency public health situations, so special attention is needed for this population group. Now, the attention of the government to these people came late and at much worse hours, with dramatic impacts on their health, learning and social exclusion. In fact, only a small group of these people is considered priority for vaccination, but the government assumes the fragility of these people by decreeing the continuity of telework to whom it so requires, and very well. In this respect, however, I have to say that the Left Block Parliamentary Group has reports of workers with more than 60 % of disability to whom the telework requirement has been denied. Speaking again about vaccination, I ask the Government: why has there never been a response to the petition based on the recommendations of the International Disability Alliance, signed by 67 Portuguese organizations for people with disabilities and subscribed by 6161 individuals, where was vaccination requested for persons with disabilities and all formal and informal caregivers of the persons referred to? Why do they continue without inserting personal assistants as priorities, having their functions very similar to other care providers? Another very concrete question: while we are in a period of time—is it expected — of progressive defination, but still mandatory masks, will there finally be distribution of masks adapted for deaf people in relevant services or the government's contribution to this level was limited only to visiting the company Chromatic Profile? As far as the right of deaf and low-hearing people to access information is concerned, I ask the question: is there a legend of content in campaigns or communications related to COVID? Many people who have been deaf throughout their lives or who have a low hearing or have only Portuguese as their only language and, in such cases, the gestual language is not answered. I would also like the Government to respond, even if it is not unpublished, when it comes to the presentation of data from people with disabilities, why there are no figures on the pandemic situation in residential homes, as has happened for the homes of the elderly. Finally, I would like to reinforce that waiting times have been reported, up to 18 months, for the marking of medical board for the evaluation of disabilities. What measures is the Government taking to reduce this wait for 60 days, as required by law? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u102	You have the floor for one speech, Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : Having won the state of emergency, the expectation was that the progress of the vaccination process, the preservation of the basic rules of individual protection and the implementation of mass testing were necessary and sufficient conditions for the defination to take place without any setbacks, reopening life in society, supporting the economy, allowing an increasing number of citizens to carry out their life projects. And for all reasons, for freedom, for sickness, for physical and psychological reasons, for the economy, for work, for defination is an imperative that we cannot see delayed, especially because Portuguese people know that Portugal is one of the countries with the biggest economic breakdown, it is from the countries where the least state has mobilized resources to support families and businesses, it is from the countries that will recover later. That is why the perpetuation of this situation calls for poverty, it announces inequality, poverty makes victims and deepens the gap, the divergence, in this relentless course towards the tail of Europe which has marked the last decades and which is no cause of concern or distress for those who rule us. Thus, to exemplify, without excuses, without stumbling, was all and only what was asked or, better, was all that was required! Once again, a disappointment and we stayed there! We fell short of the mass testing, failure which has been pointed out for many months, but which led to a task force being formed late in March, having only been set this week the standards of testing, especially for family, sporting and other events. However, these same rules did not resist more than 24 hours, having already been the subject of various interpretations by the government itself, throwing chaos on their decisions, undermining their authority, showing exactly how it is not governed without clarity and objectivity. We fell short of the sequencing of the genomes of COVID-19, which is fundamental to being able to be a step forward of the disease, detecting variants and taking measures to prevent its spread. It is not unusual for us to have known that in Portugal there were records of a Nepalese variant through public statements by the British authorities, realizing that our country maintains a weak capacity for sequencing genomes, which we did not know and for which no one had warned, which once again undermines confidence in the State. We fell short of applying rules and respecting ourselves. A state that, fascinated by the great organizations, has released thousands of English people loose in port, allowing them everything that is denied to our citizens, ordering that the law and order should not be applied, is a State that decreases in its action and whose legitimacy is corroded, a symbolism that underlies and humiliates us. It was of no use, because we saw, astonished and without a word of international repudiation, the United Kingdom shut the door on our face with a loud noise. We fell short of the diagnosis and treatment of other diseases, with gross increases in mortality, unable to maintain a high level of health care, thus disprotecting many people, as a rule those who do not have the means or health insurance to run private units: 25 % of users left the SNS and 18 % moved to private use. We were left in the digital green certificate, which is operating in nine countries. We, of the most interested, of those who most have to benefit from this instrument because of tourism, have not yet been able to verify certificates, which prevents us from hosting people in our airports in a timely manner, proving their situation. We have fallen short of public investment, the last at European level, in response to the health, economic and social crisis, the penultimate at European level. In all these parameters, we are one of the countries that has made the smallest budgetary effort in Europe to support families and businesses, a bill that will be very expensive. Finally, it is extraordinary that, in the face of such inadequacies, adding to the serious indecisions and inconsistencies that have made Portugal — this must be said! — if it became one of the 20 countries in the world with the highest mortality per 100,000 inhabitants, do not listen to the government a word of critical reflection, no repair and objection. On the contrary, we have heard, yes, an arrogant self-sufficiency that ignores the problems and prefers to mobilize their energies, not to solve this problem, but to forge a narrative, instead of recognizing and finding the right way.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u104	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u105	It didn't go wrong—it's true—but it didn't go well.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u106	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u107	And it doesn't run for the best because the government refuses to admit what went wrong. And those who don't recognize problems are not and will never be able to solve them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u108	Mrs. Members, Mr Carlos Pereira has signed up to request clarification from Mr Cristovão Norte. However, Mr Cristovão Norte no longer has time to respond. So I wonder if the Socialist Party is available to yield 1 minute so that the answer can be given. Otherwise, you will have to sign up for an intervention. We ask for clarifications to whom you cannot answer is a very easy way to change the order of inscriptions. Therefore, there is no time for reply, if Mr Carlos Pereira wishes, he will be enrolled for an intervention. Mr. Carlos Pereira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u109	Mr President, I am taking part in an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u110	You are registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Diana Ferreira from the PCP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : in this debate, the problems of workers cannot be ignored at all. The use and opportunism of employers, especially large businesses and economic groups, is increasingly evident, with the aim of dismissing workers, promoting precariousness and trampling rights in a scandalous way. There are many specific cases. The Madureira Group ’ s fires 50 workers and does not pay due rights — compensation, paid holidays, vacation or Christmas allowances. In Avipronto, workers have been on strike because the company unilaterally denounced the collective contract of work. With decades of home, they earn the national minimum wage and have their rights mirrored by a company that decided that the collective contract no longer applies. It is also a company that violates the right to strike. The INATEL Foundation does not comply with the company agreement. There are workers over 20 years old at home to earn the national minimum wage, with precarious links, with schedules unilaterally changed by the company administration. EDP is one of the champions of precariousness: 3000 workers who have ensured, many of them for decades, services for the EDP Group — such as telephone service or in stores, for example — continue to have precarious links. EDP needs them, every day, to respond to these services. It is also necessary to respond to workers in this context, including those who are unemployed or those who have lost income and all those who are in a fragile situation: the elderly, the disabled, the poor. It is necessary to ensure and implement, in a timely manner, all social support, without subterfuge and without any delay, to respond to the social situation that these people face. An Act (Working Conditions Authority) is also needed to be effective in its action, speedy and effectively monitoring the performance of companies, with the proper consequences for employers who violate the law. The examples we have left here demonstrate the urgent need for redundancies, compensation rights, the serious rules of labour law, such as the lapse of collective bargaining, the restoration of the most favourable treatment principle, the end of precariousness, the value of wages and the guarantee of decent working conditions for all workers. In the fight against the epidemic, these are fundamental struggles to which the CFP will not miss. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u112	For an intervention, Mr André Pinotes Batista, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u113	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the members of the Government here present and the Members. and the Members. Today, in this House, we are debating pandemic management after the state of emergency, social recovery, health dimension and also economic. However, it is not only important to note that, although we present ourselves with great humility in this debate, the time period chosen by the CDS was the period after the state of emergency, that is, after 15 months of an unheard situation at a global level. the pandemic phenomenon and its transversal nature all over the world, which much of the right is meant to fail to perceive and try to see meopically, as if it were just a national reality, what the CDS and the right wanted to highlight, of 15 months, were only the last six weeks. But we are here to do this debate not because, in the previous 13 months, there has not been a tremendous response from our government, and the humility of recognizing that everything has not been right, but, yes, because it has been far more correct than that which has failed, in particular because of the existence of this flexible planning capacity and also the humility of correcting and calibrating, within the response proportional to each problem that arises, and because we also understand that this choice which makes a certain form of being symptomatic is symptomatic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that the right has never ruled in such a crisis, nor do we wish for this experience. It is, in fact, an experience of enormous hardness to which only a few had the ability to react. However, we must say that we have recorded the ferocious criticism that the CDS made to Mr. President of the Republic. But for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, institutional cooperation is a greater value, because it has also been very relevant to finding effective answers to this pandemic crisis. So we will continue to rely on scientific knowledge, yes, because it is the scientific knowledge that has guided us to protect public health, to make decisions that recover our economy so as not to let anyone, from a social point of view, stay behind. It is in scientific knowledge that these answers are in him that we have placed ourselves and that is where we will continue. It is also important to look at this exercise of the CDS, when we come here to schedule a debate of the greatest importance, in a tone of great strictness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u114	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u115	... and say 'yes, we recognize that vaccination has gone well', as if vaccination was a matter of little importance. It is important to rescue CDS from this misunderstanding! Vaccination is, in fact, the most decisive aspect of combating pandemic. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we find ourselves at 7 million doses administered, a quarter of our population with the vaccine scheme already completed! More: if, in the sector of those over 80 years of age, we have 97% immunisation, from 65 to 79 years of age, we have 96% immunisation and, even from 50 to 64 years of age, we already have 70%, it is to say that although they recognize that vaccination has been successful, because the fact that vaccination is running well, from a substantive point of view, means that the fight against pandemic is going well and that, despite the crisis has not yet ended, despite the pandemic is not yet overcome, the truth is that we are on the right path, in the path of normalization. I would end by saying the following: in our hands, in the economic dimension, we have an absolutely historical recovery plan. It is the Recovery and Resilience Plan — Portugal was the first to present it and also the first to see it approved — which overall confers EUR 57, EUR 9 billion between this recovery plan, PT 2020 and the Plurianual Financial Framework. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that transparency, the promotion of transparency, the guarantee of good enforcement and the guarantee of effective supervision are fundamental. The role of this Parliament has been central and, as there is a possible committee that has done this work, we will put forward a proposal to extend its object and also to extend, until the end of the legislature, this very role which Parliament has fulfilled, challenging all of us. Members to adhere to this proposal. In front of this list of assurances on the right that, for us, is a list of the need to be humble, we guarantee only the following to the Portuguese: we will continue to respond to this crisis in the way it needs to be answered, identifying the problems, having the humility to adapt what is to adapt and act in proportionality. This is what they expect of us in times of crisis, that is what the government and the Socialist Party's bench have done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u116	Mr Pedro Morais Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the sectors most affected by the pandemic was, and continues to be, the third sector, the social sector. The social economy has a particularly relevant role in Portuguese society, because of the proximity it has to people every day and in the responses it gives to the most unprotected people, our elderly, our children, people with disabilities and the most deprived families. Social institutions, as active partners in local development and support for the most unprotected, thus play a decisive role in each of our communities, from north to south, from inland to shore, without ever forgetting our islands. These entities, in the face of all adversitys, such as those caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, were not only able to develop and maintain their activity, as the vast majority of them were able to reinforce their responses of proximity to all those who needed it most. And this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it has an incalculable value. All the social support work these institutions have done and continue to do in the fight against the pandemic. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the social economy continues to be indispensable to ensure the provision of intergenerational services and for the future of our country: a country where families have more opportunities for foster care for their children; a country where every elderly person can choose to stay at home and be more and more accompanied or go to a home and find good conditions; a country with continuous care of quality, close and accessible; a country where people with disabilities do not have to leave their lands to find those who care for them. This is what the CDS has always defended, always wanted, and that's what I just said, that the CDS recognizes that it is so often assured by the entities of this sector. Mrs. Member States, Madam Secretary of State, the CDS presented a proposal for a change in order to ensure by the Government an update of the cooperation undertaking concluded with the Union of Portuguese Mercy, the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions and the Union of Portuguese Mutualities, with a minimum of 6 %, in order to cover at least the increase in the minimum wage. Mr. Secretary of State, these entities face difficulties that have been aggravated with the pandemic, many of them being financially strangled. The CDS has been alerting, successively, to this problem. Today, one of the headlines of the New newspaper says: « The austerity of the Minister suffocates institutions of solidarity ». The CDS believes in the third sector and its ability to arrive often before the State, closer than the State or where the State does not even arrive. Social institutions, the Secretary of State, aim, yes, and create, also sustainable employment throughout the country, fight desertification and seek to improve the dignity of our elderly, our children and people with disabilities. Mr Secretary of State, the cooperation commitment with the Union of Portuguese Mercy, the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions and the Union of Mutualities has not yet been updated and we are now in mid-June 17th. therefore, Mrs. Secretary of State, that the IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity) are desperate for the financing commitment that this sector supports. It is not acceptable for us to be in the middle of the year and the social institutions do not yet know what they are counting on this year. from there I would like to ask you whether you will be updated to a fair value, a value that covers at least the increase in the minimum wage for 2020, which you have to cover, and the increase in the minimum wage for 2021, or whether, as in last year, the updating of the cooperation agreements will be of a lower value, thus leaving these institutions in a financial and economic suffocation once again. Madam Secretary of State, do not forget that we are not only facing a pandemic, but in front of three pandemics, a public health pandemic, a social pandemic and an economic pandemic, and supporting the social economy and the third sector is essential to support families with economic and social weaknesses, support our elderly. Portugal cannot let those who need help stay behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u118	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u119	In conclusion, Mr President, as I said, IPSSs are financially strangled. Not only is it necessary to update this year's agreements, but it is also necessary and urgent to update and compensate for 2020 values. We must not forget that the IPSS had its costs increased with fixed costs, with the costs of increasing the minimum wage, with the costs it had to combat this pandemic, so the costs of the IPSS have gone up, shot, and the government continues to disregard and fail to make commitments with the social institutions. How can the institutions of the social sector, the Secretary of State, fulfil their commitments, fulfil their budget if, in the middle of the year, they still do not know what they can count on from this government? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u120	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the figures Mr. Secretary of State brought here today can be seen in many ways, but there are figures that Mr. Secretary of State cannot deny: 9 million present consultations in health centres less than in the previous year — 9 million! — and 121 000 surgeries and 1, 2 million consultations unless in hospitals. You can't deny these numbers, no matter how much you want to turn back the numbers you brought here today on that file. And, yes, Mr Secretary of State, this is also an ideological complex, because the right often brought to this plenary the possibility that, when the State did not respond properly to the specific problems of citizens, without consultation and without access to health care, private and social operators could do so and it was the left that vetoed this possibility, placing an ideological complex in front of people's health and the well-being of Portuguese. But we wouldn't get along well with ourselves if we didn't speak today and we wouldn't confront you, Mr. Secretary of State, with the siege that is being mounted in Lisbon and the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. The same government that allowed celebrations of the national football champion title of Sporting completely disorganized in this city, with a President of the Socialist Chamber, the same government that allowed the English party in Porto, is the government that now comes to close the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon and tell the citizens of the Metropolitan Area that they have to take care of, that they cannot enter and leave their lands. This government which said we would not go back, which is now confused with the President of the Republic about whether or not there can be more confinement, now imposed on the most populous area in the country, the area of greater housing intensity, an unacceptable siege, which only the courts can reverse. But when mortality reaches, in numbers per 100 000 inhabitants, the largest number of the European Union, what do we hear from the Secretary of State of Health? Not a word! In any other country of the European Union, this Parliament would be here demanding responsibilities—for you and your Minister—for allowing the country, which was so good two months ago, to become in the country with the highest mortality per 100,000 inhabitants. I do not know, Mr Secretary of State, whether we can guarantee that we will, or not, have a new confinement, but should — I repeat, but I should — because the Portuguese are tired of having their establishments closed, the operators are tired of seeing their closed shops and those who work every day to support income and wages deserve a word from the Government and not the confusion established between the President of the Republic and the Government, because they do not understand whether or not they are going to need a new confinement. But what did we hear? That the Minister of Health is tired, that she considers the mission accomplished and that she thinks it's time to go home. Today, you are before this House, Mr. Secretary of State. Mr. Secretary of State doesn't know whether you're going to be Minister of Health or not. The press ensures that you will be the next Minister of Health and that your Minister of Health is outside, on the way home. Perhaps it would be a good time to tell this Parliament whether or not it is true that, at the time when we return, when the numbers increase again, when confinement is a new reality, the Minister will take her bag and set herself up, leaving her with the baby in her hand. Perhaps Mr. Secretary of State can tell us, then, whether or not we are going to have a new confinement. It is that we are generating the perception, Mr. Secretary of State, that soon we will close everything again.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u122	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u123	I shall conclude, Mr President. And there is nothing worse for an economy, there is nothing worse for tourism, there is nothing worse for employment and there is nothing worse for economic growth than a government that says one thing one day and says another day, than a President of the Republic who says one thing and one government that says another. Therefore, every bankruptcy, every unemployment, every unpaid salary, this House must charge you and your government with each of these disasters that we will have in the near future.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u124	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After that, let's go back to the essential. When the debate is almost at the end, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I cannot but underline what seemed to me to be one of the main tones of the interventions, above all, on the right. The main tone—and this must be said with all the frontality—is the kind of selective right-wing reaction to the fight against the pandemic. A selective reaction in which, when things are good, they are to hide, when things are worse, they are to amplify, which is truly a reaction contrary to what has been promised, for many months, for 15 months, i.e., there was a commitment of responsibility with the government to combat the pandemic. But that is actually the tone and that is what happened during this debate. I also want to say that the right has come to this debate by doing that exercise, which is dishonest—and it is also necessary to say this—which is to put the country into a bubble and forget what happens in the rest of the world or in the rest of Europe, to get closer. During the debate, I went to look for some indicators on the number of infections compared with some European countries and I reached the following conclusion: Portugal is today 7% of its number in the peak of infections, but Spain is 6%, France is 6%, Germany is 6%, Russia is 43%, Greece is 20 %, Holland has 9%, the United Kingdom has 13%, Finland has 9%, Sweden has 9%. Mrs. Members, this is what is happening in the world, it is not what is happening in Portugal. That's what's happening in the world! But more: Mr Cristovão Norte, who is no longer here, also spoke of the economy and I also went to make a comparison. What's going on with the economy? They see employment, and this government has said since the first hour that one of the main fights was to ensure that the productive capacity of companies is maintained, and that means maintaining employment. What is happening in Europe in 2020? In a whole year of pandemic, Portugal had 6, 5 % unemployment. However, the European Union had an average of 7, 3 %, Spain had 15, 3 %, Italy 10, 1 %. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to make this comparison. It is true that we have less room for manoeuvre to act in the economy, we have less money to inject into the economy, but what the Portuguese economy has shown is that it is resilient, it is enduring this crisis and the government's measures are being effective in combating the pandemic crisis that affects the economy, as we all know and with which we are obviously concerned. You ignore this, but we cannot let this happen. By the way, the ladies. Members who spoke yesterday about the Portuguese economy and about the possible lack of competitiveness of the Portuguese economy should read the Journal of Business, whose main headline is « Portugal attracts companies and capital as never before ». We're not the ones who say it, they're specialists. This is a global analysis that the foreign direct investment stock is the largest in recent times. So, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight we are fighting for an economy that includes the struggle for public health and social support is difficult and there is no single path, but you have brought nothing new here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u126	Mr Duarte Alves, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: The management of the pandemic at the economic level has been marked by benefits for large companies, the main beneficiaries of measures such as Layoff. at the same time it remains behind support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the basis of Portuguese business fabric, which are the ones that create more employment and greater turnover. It was small companies that suffered the most with successive confinements, with restrictions on the entry of tourists, but also with delays and discrimination in support, with the lack of public investment, which promotes the activity of many of these companies. Yes, there's been a lack of public investment. We simply see the difference, as a percentage of GDP ( gross domestic product ), between economic support measures in Portugal and other European countries. Instead, we had bank moratoriums and the problem we cannot ignore is that September is already there, around the corner. Without measures to restore the normality of life and economic activity, the end of moratoriums may mean that, at one time or another, thousands of households with housing credit and thousands of companies are in breach of compliance because they do not have the means to pay their benefits. We proposed the extension of moratoriums taking into account this situation and the measure was limited by PS and PSD, but the CFP will not give up solutions to prevent the disaster in September and, above all, substantive solutions that solve the problems. In business support measures, discrimination is maintained on the basis of the EAC ( Portuguese Classification of Economic Activities ), whether they have workers or not, from debts to banks or even the type of accounting, as if the entrepreneurs who decided to use simplified schemes — which the law allows! — were outside of her. Finally, the Government cannot ignore the cost of context that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises face and that has increased in recent times, at a time of crisis and difficulties. The costs with energy, with fuels, which have increased, with the tolls, with the revenues, with the credits, with the unfair competition of multinationals, that, indeed, brings to life small businesses who try to survive this crisis. How will the Government respond to these specific problems faced by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u128	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The pandemic we live in has not brought just a public health crisis. It also came, as expected, an economic and social crisis, but the economic and social impacts are always better understood when compared with the impacts of other crises. The fall in GDP in 2020 was higher than the fall in GDP in 2012, but when we compared unemployment, the rise in unemployment in 2020 was much lower than the increase in unemployment in the beginning of the last decade. The social crisis we are living in is great, but it does not have the dimension that has been announced by many, the social crisis we live in is incomparably smaller than the previous social crisis and the great difference for these different results is not in the crisis. The answers given are that they are being radically different and that is the big difference. We managed to cushion the impacts of this crisis, but not thanks to the markets or to any invisible hand, on the contrary, it was even thanks to a very visible hand, thanks to the hand of the social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2020, social security expenditure grew by more than 12 %, but even if compared with the years 2012 and 2013, when unemployment and social protection reached the highest values of that decade, the growth in social security expenditure in 2020 is almost twice — almost twice as much – of the sum of social security expenditure growth in 2012 and 2013. I do not make these comparisons to criticize the governance of the PSD and the CDS, but, rather, so that, once and for all, they realize that when the crisis strikes there are no markets or invisible hands that save us, only a strong social state can protect our economy and our society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Secretary of State, we are still far from the end of this crisis. What guarantees can the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security give that the many measures taken for social protection will continue to be the best weapon to defeat this battle? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u130	Mr Hugo Costa of the PS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since March 2020 we have been experiencing a health crisis, but economics and health cannot be incompatible and it is important to say what was the economic and social response to this pandemic. We are talking about more than EUR 3000 million paid in direct support to Portuguese families, more than EUR 10 billion credit to businesses, more than EUR 900 million from the APOIAR programme. This response, for example, allowed the impact on employment in Portugal to be much lower than in other economies, with unemployment being around 7 %. But it is also important to talk about the future and, for that, we need to talk about the Recovery and Resilience Plan and remember that Portugal was the first country with an approved recovery and resilience plan. It is EUR 13, EUR 9 billion in direct grants in three key pillars — digital transition, climate transition and resilience — plus EUR 2, EUR 7 billion in loans. The Recovery and Resilience Plan, the central point of our country's economic and social recovery, can only be worked together with more than EUR 33 billion from the new Community support framework and the remaining of more than EUR 10 billion from Portugal 2020. thus, the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group recalls the importance of economic and social support in economic recovery and in response to this pandemic, realizing that many people have been in very difficult situations, but also the confidence that the Recovery and Resilience Plan is the answer that the country needs to find new solutions for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u132	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As it has become too obvious in times of crisis — and this has been a marked moment of crisis, as a result of a pandemic situation — the only reality that can be of value to us is, in fact, a strong social state, as has been shown to be ours, in the support that has been, permanently, seeking to assign to individual citizens, to the institutions of the social and solidarity sector and to businesses. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer the questions that have been put to me. Mrs Mariana Silva, in effect, with regard to disability bonus, wanted to alert the publication of Ordinance No 108/2021 and Order No 5265-C, which sought to respond, precisely, to this difficulty for which she alerted. We have had some delays in deferring some disability bonus processes — the new ones, not renewed ones — due to situations of inconformity that have been communicated to us successively. I remember, and many will remember, situations that have been found that condition these support are given to children who, indeed, have disabilities and not to situations that will hardly fit into this concept and with which we cannot continue to compact. With regard to medical boards, I wanted to say that the Government has managed, through the extraordinary regime for the establishment of medical boards, to have already on the ground 104 medical boards which, since July last year, have carried out a total of 38 000 evaluations. There are evaluations to be made, there are delays, yes! This is a reality of the pandemic but it is not exclusive, it came from before, thanks to the difficulties that we have been having in carrying out these joints only with the cooperation of public health professionals, which cannot be an exclusive, as we all know. With regard to the questions put more directly by Mrs Diana Santos, I wanted to say that, indeed, the criteria that the World Health Organization has defined put people with disabilities recognized as a group of special vulnerability and we are all in line with this. The situation is complicated when the WHO itself defines those who understand to be the criteria to determine who integrates the risk group, which was defined as a risk to life rather than the risk of infection or contamination by the COVID-19 virus. All the situations in which we were effectively reported difficulties were assessed by the National Health Service and in several of them, as happened with the social responses in residential homes, autonomous residences, activity centers and training for inclusion, vaccination was ensured from the first moment. Situations of concrete health disorders also achieved this same priority. What we have not been able to achieve so far, and this is an assessment for the Ministry of Health, is that this priority is given in a cross-sectional manner to all people who have a degree of disability equal to or greater than a given percentage. As far as the issue of masks for deaf people is concerned, the honourable Member is wrong. In fact, the masks were distributed not only through the INR (National Institute for Rehabilitation) by public services, but also by all reference schools. Mrs Helga Correia, since the beginning of this pandemic 15 months ago, the Government has in particular supported 2, 9 million individuals. This social state! The government executed EUR 4100 million in social support to individuals, and 887 million were specific only to institutions in the social and solidarity sector. These are numbers that, I think, speak for you. We are working on the cooperation compromise 2021 - 2022 and the institutions know our proposed update, which is 3, 5 %, while the compensation support for the minimum wage updates is out of this update. Therefore, this value of 3, 5 % is extra pay updates. This is the support we propose, we are available to sign this agreement at any time and to proceed with the payment of retroactives, with effect from January. And let me just say that such a government that blows up to the side, that government that applies austerity in the social area has been implementing updates of at least 3, 5 % since 2019. The lowest update you promoted was 1, 3 % and I wanted to say that from 2011 to 2015 the highest update we had was 1, 1 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u134	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u135	If the institutions of social solidarity are currently in a delicate situation, we imagine how they would not be at that time. In fact, «well preaches Friar Thomas, makes him say, do not do what he does». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u136	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: Support for the economy and economic recovery is in fact one of the central issues when we talk about the pandemic. Nor are criticisms and warnings made by the Left Block about how the government failed in many matters and how it came late in some support that was predictable, earlier than they were approved. For example, the government took a long time to admit that there were precise lines in the background, it took time to understand that there was a need for direct support, such as for fixed incomes or costs, and therefore during the pandemic year we had a lot of time without these measures. It is important to understand what can and should be done at this time, especially with regard to micro and small enterprises, which are the overwhelming majority of Portuguese business fabric. Here there has been a very large contradiction between, on the one hand, the way the Government has presented the alleged results of the support and, on the other, the reports that continue to reach, in particular, the Portuguese Confederation of Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, but also several associations of many sectors, that there are too many companies that do not receive any support and so many others who continue to struggle for survival. Therefore, I would like to see if the government has measures planned for this time of the pandemic that look at the risks that are placed on the table. For example: will there be a chance of deep support for micro and small business treasury? Another matter has to do with the moratoriums. It has already been said, but it is important to ask this question, because it is very pressing. There are several proposals on the table, but, in fact, we do not know exactly what the government is going to do and it would be important for the Secretary of State to clarify this issue right now. September is right at the door, there is no decision and these micro and small businesses cannot remain undefined until the time comes. Also on housing moratoriums, for example, the Left Block has already proposed a transitional regime that restructures this debt and provides for the ban on permanent housing to be imposed so that, in September, we do not have a waste tragedy, for example. There are also several other sectors of activity that continue to present very great difficulties, namely the culture sector, which continues to be one of the most affected, even from an economic point of view, with this crisis, and which has seen only appreciable measures — today one goes out, tomorrow another leaves, there is no structural definition for what one wants to respond to this sector. So it seems to us that less indefinition is needed at this time and above all, less serious measures and a more structural look at the Portuguese economy, its characterization and how to have measures that respond to the overwhelming majority, to micro and small enterprises and also to workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u138	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the closing stage of this request, so I give the floor to Mr João Pinho de Almeida. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate we must say that it was worth the CDS to schedule it and it was worth choosing this issue. Indisputably, both on the part of the Government and on the side of the opposition parties and, from the very outset, on the CDS, it was possible to make an analysis of the evolution of the fight against pandemic and, above all, as was the purpose of the agenda, to look forward to the future and the recovery of the country. We have reaffirmed here, in the face of an exceptional and unpredictable situation, the solidarity of the CDS with whom it governs, but of course also the dedication in the representation of those who have been left behind at every moment. That is our role as an opposition party: to be able to meet institutional responsibilities, but not to abdicate at any time the representation of those in the CDS who have the voice they need to have in this Parliament to make their concerns heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u141	We have always rejected the fallacy of the new normal because, obviously, we do not conform to the normalization of a situation that is absolutely exceptional. We have therefore been pointing out this exceptionality, also pointing out that it was necessary to respond effectively to it. We always said that what happened during the fight against pandemic was abnormal and would have to be seen as such, was exceptional and could not become a rule. Therefore, we appealed to as soon as possible—and today it was also the day of the emphasis—to begin the recovery, recovering, of course, all that was lost and recovering everything that was lost in the lives of each of the Portuguese, which was not only in one or another area. All Portuguese lost and lost in all dimensions of their lives. That is why recovering is to begin exactly there, by returning to the Portuguese what they did not have during this period. So it is also essential that, after recovering, we can restart a path of achievement of social well-being, which, of course, is also the design of all of us. To recover there are challenges and solutions. In health we talked about the challenge of waiting lists for consultations and surgeries, which have increased dramatically during this period. They had to increase, but we need to have a solution for this and we have again presented the contractualization with the social and private sectors as urgent and necessary so that we can quickly recover from the delays in the waiting lists. In the social sector and in the support of the most needy, of course, there is still pressure on the institutions that provide such care, which, of course, justifies the Government's concern and appreciation of these sectors. But we have not talked so much about the economy and it is important that we talk about it. Portugal has had the biggest falls of gross domestic product in the European Union and the growth that is announced for the next two years makes recovery very small and maintains the trace of the Portuguese economy of the last 20 years: anemic growth that does not allow a recovery and conquest of competitiveness. Moreover, in these 20 years Portugal has always had one of the lowest GDP growth, has had a constant loss of places in which GDP per capita represents, has lost productivity, has lost investment and, in addition, has failed — as it is obvious, in all these circumstances! — improve in terms of average wage the effective representation of an improvement in quality of life. That is why we must have measures for investment, we must have measures for recruitment and work, we must have measures that dynamize the economy in a way that socialists have never succeeded in dynamizing, even when they had, a few years ago, the possibility of managing the country in the best international environment ever. Until then there have been anemic growth. That is why we said in this debate, and we reaffirm — and I shall conclude, Mr President — that the Government when it corrected, has always improved, and when it insisted, it has usually worsened.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u143	In particular, in relation to economic issues, there must be no sad figures like the one that the Prime Minister made this week. It is not worthy of a country that has been part of the European Union for more than 30 years, which is a full member of the European Union, when a plan is approved, to ask whether it can go to the bank. This is the perspective of a country that does not respect, that does not understand the role it plays within the European Union and that is not up to the dignity that the Portuguese demand of a prime minister. That is why the question can never be « when we go to the bank », the question must always be « when we start to do different, when we start to do better. » And the answer can only be: now! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u144	To close the debate, in the representation of the Government, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Economics, John Neves. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The last few months have been of the most demanding of our country's democratic history. No one in any part of the world was ready for the situation we were living in. The pandemic represented one of the most serious public health emergencies that there is, requiring the adoption of several extraordinary measures, which forced the restriction of various rights and freedoms, including economic matters. The first quarter of this year was marked significantly by the confinement determined in mid-January, which proved to be very narrow, severe and prolonged. In order to mitigate the negative impacts on businesses and families, it was necessary to strengthen the support launched, in particular, the maintenance of family income and the preservation of employment, with the recovery of the simplified layoff regime and the strengthening of the system of support for progressive recovery, and measures to support the relief of business treasury by strengthening the APOIAR programme, the new fiscal moratoriums and the maintenance in force of lease support measures, such as the extension of contracts or the reduction of counter-shares paid by shops in commercial groups. Only under the APOIR programme, we approved more than 100 000 applications until yesterday and have already been transferred to the companies EUR 1070 million in full. Despite the very significant impact of this new confinement, the economy, after the end of the state of emergency and the lifting of some restrictions, has again given very positive signs of resilience: the contraction of GDP in the first quarter was less severe than last year's, which means that companies have been better able to adapt to this new reality; in April this year, exports of goods have increased by 83 %, even by 7 % exports of April 2019; turnover indices in industry and services have grown by around 50 %; IEFP data indicate that unemployment has recovered in April; the daily economic activity indicator of the Banco de Portugal is now above the same period of 2019; the consumer confidence indicator has increased significantly in the last three months, reaching the maximum value since February 2020, the last survey before the pandemic; and the economic climate indicator has also increased significantly between March and May, exceeding the level observed at the beginning of the pandemic, which has been seen as a transverse behavior to all. In short, not only did SNS show an enormous resilience capacity as the Portuguese economy is showing itself to be very resistant, with a huge adaptability. And economic recovery, lifted by improving the epidemiological situation, is proving very fast and vigorous. These signs are therefore quite encouraging and allow us to look forward with optimism. In fact, the new Banco de Portugal Economic Bulletin revised growth projections for the Portuguese economy and revised unemployment downwards, including the government's forecasts in the Stability Programme. According to Banco de Portugal, GDP is expected to grow 4, 8 % by 2021 and the economy is expected to return to pre-crisis levels by the beginning of next year. The government's priority will continue to be to safeguard public health and citizens' safety and we will not hesitate to take the necessary measures. The very favourable evolution of the vaccination strategy, which allows us to reduce the severity of the disease, gives us hope that the normality of economic and social life can be gradually resumed. Therefore, the focus of economic policy at the next stage will be aimed at supporting economic recovery and strengthening the confidence of economic actors, and this new phase is essentially based on two pillars: incentives to seek, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to extend extraordinary tax credit to investment. The Assembly of the Republic was proposed to strengthen incentives for the capitalisation of the companies currently in force; to implement the Plurianual Plan of Support for Tourism Activity, with an immediate focus on supporting business activity and the external promotion of the destination Portugal, but also ensuring support for the re-qualification of supply and growth; and a new competition of the Business Investment Incentives System, with the prior registration of investment intentions already raised to more than 1600 million euros, of which 600 million foreign direct investment. In the coming weeks we will also launch the first measures of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which has now received green light from the European Commission, including the Mobilizing Agendas for Entrepreneurial Innovation, which will support projects with potential transformer of the national production structure. With the approval of the RRP we will also be able to strengthen financial instruments to support companies. With regard to the sectors most affected by the pandemic, we will support the end of the banking moratoriums, ensuring part of the loan under moratorium, so as to extend the deadlines for reimbursement of these claims and to free up the treasury of companies. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation we are living in is still fragile. Control of the epidemiological situation continues to be a priority, but we have, on the economic side, positive signs that we must continue to stimulate in order to ensure that companies and workers face in the best possible way in the coming days. The government has been, is and will be prepared for all challenges. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u146	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the discussion of the first item on today's agenda. We will move on to the second point which, as you know, consists of electoral votes. We have quorum more than enough, 210 ladies and gentlemen. Members who have registered and, therefore, we will immediately initiate the votes, not before I say goodbye to the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. Until next chance. Let us then begin the votes by the Draft Vote No 600 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and signed by a PS Member ) — Despite the death of João Manuel de Serpa Oliva. I would ask Mr Telmo Correia to read the draft vote. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died on June 4, at the age of 72, João Manuel de Serpa Oliva. Natural Coimbra, a city that loved as few, João de Serpa Oliva was always a reference within the party and one of the best of the CDS. Member in the XI and XII legislatures, between 2009 and 2013, has always carried out his office with a huge spirit of public service and high quality, particularly in the areas of health and European affairs. Son of one of the founding partners of the Casa de Saúde de Santa Filomena, in Coimbra, João de Serpa Oliva occupied several social positions in the group SANFIL Medicine, notably clinical director of the Casa de Saúde de Santa Filomena and later clinical coordinator of the group. As a doctor, he was one of the most well-known and respected orthopedic surgeons in the country, being head of the hospitals of the University of Coimbra and created the Osteoarticular Septic Pathology Unit (Orthopedics 5 ), which led for 25 years. during his career he performed more than 15 000 surgeries, was an effective member of several national and foreign scientific societies, highlighting, among others, the Portuguese Society of Medicine and Foot Surgery, which he chaired, and the Portuguese Society of Corporate Damage, that he was president of the General Assembly, and the award of the gold medal of the Latvian Resheach Institute, for the contribution in the relationship between the specialists of Orthopedics of the former USSR and Portugal. In 2014, the Portuguese Association of Podology instituted in its honour the Serpa Oliva Prize, of which it was the first winner, an annual distinction aimed at the public recognition of personalities or entities that have contributed to the development, growth, sustainability and affirmation of podology in Portugal. John of Serpa Oliva has always been a loyal and good friend of all those who have crossed the Parliamentary Group of the CDS, all marking for his knowledge, dedication and humanism, and I am sure, in Parliament, a longing that, we are convinced, is shared by all his contemporaries and all those who have deprived him, whether they are deputies or civil servants, regardless of the parliamentary group to which they belong. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expressed its deep regret at the death of João Manuel de Serpa Oliva and presented to his family, especially his wife and daughters, here present, his deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u148	The President of the Assembly of the Republic is also associated with these greetings, greetings and condolences to the family. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the legislative part of the draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we follow the Draft Vote No 606 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PSD and signed by members of the CDS-PP and PS ), regretting the death of writer Antonio Torrado, who will be read by Secretary Lina Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u149	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « António Torrado, one of the most renowned writers of the contemporary Portuguese literature for children and young people, died last day 11, at 81 years of age. Poet, dramatist, argumentist, fictionist and author of school textbooks, António Torrado was born in Lisbon, in 1939, graduated from Philosophy by the University of Coimbra and began publishing stories for childhood only 18 years old. António Torrado, one of the most important figures in our literature since April 25, was a high school teacher and was linked to the editorial and pedagogical universe. He founded a childhood and basic school, pioneer in Portugal, of the Modern School Movement ( Freinet techniques ) and was a teacher of child literature at the School of Children in Lisbon. In 1974, he joined the RTP as head of the Department of Children's Programs. He gave teacher training courses in Portugal, Guinea-Bissau, Angola and Cape Verde ; he collaborated in newspapers and magazines such as The Professor, World Life, Africa and Vertice, among others, and directed the child supplement Moinho de Vento, of the newspaper A Capital, between 1968 and 1972. As a poet, it is represented in various anthologies. He was a founding member of the Portuguese Association of Writers, the Institute of Support for Children and the Portuguese Society of Authors, a member of the International Association of Literary Critics and responsible for the dramaturgical writing chair of the High School of Theatre and Cinema. António Torrado, holder of an unusual imaginative capacity, writing with the simplicity of a storyteller, dedicated to the younger of his writing and much of his time and talent. its extensive work, with more than one hundred books translated into several languages, exceeds literary production for children, widely awarded in Portugal and Brazil. Among many other awards, António Torrado was awarded four times with the Grand Gulbenkian Prize of Literature for Children and Youth: in 1980, with the book How to Make Orange Color; in 1984 with The Book of Seven Colors; in 1996 with The Marketer of Nothing, and in 1988 with The Stars- When Kings Were Princes. In 1984, he received the Children's Theatre Award from the State Department of Culture. In 1974 and 1996 some of his books were included in the Honorary List of IBBY - International Board on Books for Young People. He was the candidate of Portugal for the Hans Christian Andersen Prize in 2000 and 2014 and in 2013 António Torrado was nominated for another important award in the area of early childhood literature, the Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award ( ALMA ). at this time when Portugal loses a wonderful storyteller who had the gift of imagination, word, writing, poetry, beauty and humor, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deepest regret over the death of Antonio Torrado, addressing his family and friends the most sincere and deeply regretted loss. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u150	The President of the Assembly of the Republic is also associated with this regret vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the legislative part of the draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we move on to the Vote Project No. 608 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PSD and CDS-PP Members, by unregistered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, by PS, BE and PAN Members ) — From greeting to António Guterres, which will be read by Ms Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u151	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « The General Assembly of the United Nations today shall vote on the unanimous recommendation of 8 June of the Security Council for the re-establishment of Antonio Guterres as Secretary-General, a formal act which shall precede the oath and hold for a second term before the most important international multilateral organisation, bringing together 193 Member States. This decision, which is so proud of Portugal and the Portuguese, is a consequence of the competent, rigorous and committed manner as Antonio Guterres has served as Secretary-General over the past five years, as well as the strength of his leadership, anchored in the essential values and principles in which the United Nations is based. After a long process, with hearings and debates, guided by great transparency, in which his candidacy was clearly victorious, and five years of great demand, marked by great tensions and the most serious pandemic crisis in recent history, Antonio Guterres receives, unanimously, the confidence vote of the United Nations Security Council, which is due to his human, political and intellectual qualities and how he placed his many and diverse capacities in the service of peoples and nations, proving that, just as five years ago, Antonio Guterres is the most prepared personality to face the complexity of the problems of the present world. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, greets Antonio Guterres, warmly congratulating him and addressing him with the best wishes in the second term as Secretary-General of the United Nations. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u152	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the legislative part of the draft vote. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] [[PS and PSD, standing, CDS-PP, PAN and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u153	Mr. André Ventura, are you asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u154	Mr President, it is to announce that I will send a statement of vote on this matter to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u155	Be registered. We now proceed to the vote of the General State Account 2019. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS were adopted against the CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions from the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1235 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the necessary efforts for the depollution of Tornada and Arnoia rivers. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are going to vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 1242 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government measures to combat menstrual poverty. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEN, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 1257 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government should ensure that menstruation is not a form of discrimination, economic and environmental disadvantage. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] We now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1307 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Free distribution of menstrual health products. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] This diploma is down to 9. the Commission, such as previous draft laws on the same subject. Mrs. Elza Pais, did you ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u156	Mr. President, with regard to these bills, I and Members Susana Amador, Susana Correia, Sara Velez, Cristina Mendes da Silva, Silvia Torres and Martina Jesus, intend to make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u157	A written vote statement?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u158	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u159	All right, get registered. Mrs. Members, we follow the vote on draft resolution No 1301 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Protection of human rights and the European Union's external migration policy. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the CDS-PP and CH.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1310 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — By a migration policy that guarantees the effective protection of migrants from the European Union, the fulfilment of human rights and the safeguarding of humanitarian intervention to rescue shipwrecks. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and IL abstentions.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 787 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Promotes vocational training and combating precariousness in the fisheries sector. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1272 / XIV / 2. a ( Unregistered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government the definition of the profile of the curator-restaurator ensuring the preservation of cultural heritage. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u160	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u161	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u162	Mr President, it is to announce that we will deliver a written vote statement on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u163	Be registered. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1298 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — The urgent recovery of student learning through a rigorous assessment of the impact of the pandemic, ensuring the necessary resources for no student to be left behind. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1311 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — By asserting education as a guarantee of opportunities for younger generations. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and the abstention of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Then we vote on draft resolution No 1282 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Extension of employment contracts to the end of public higher education teachers and researchers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 745 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the opening of an extraordinary process of equalization to the career of higher health professional-branch clinical psychology, accessible to all clinical psychologists, including ITCs. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1182 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — For greater equity in the distribution of European structural funds to the Setúbal Peninsula region. [[The vote was taken in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and PSD abstentions.]] This diploma goes down to 13. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 1312 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — The urgent creation of NUTS II and III - Setubal Peninsula. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PCP and ENP abstentions.]] This diploma also falls to 13. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u164	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u165	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u166	Mr. President, I inform you that I and the Socialist Members elected by the circle of Setúbal — Eurídice Pereira, Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos, André Pinotes Batista, Sofia Araújo, Fernando José, Clarisse Campos and Ivan Gonçalves — will present a written statement of vote on the last two projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u167	Be registered. We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance on Bill No 717 / XIV / 2. a ( CFP ) — establishes the extension and extension of bank moratoriums. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u168	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u169	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u170	Mr President, it is to inform us that, on this vote, we intend to make an oral vote at the end of the vote, and it will be Mr Duarte Alves doing so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u171	All right, Mr. Deputies. At the end of the vote, this declaration of vote by the CFP Parliamentary Group will take place. We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 238 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation and enforcement of measures to combat obesity, 244 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of integrated measures to prevent and combat obesity, 763 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Recommends to the Government measures to prevent and combat obesity, 961 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Measures to combat obesity, 1035 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to prevent obesity, 1085 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Measures to prevent and treat obesity and 1096 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — proposes a strategy to promote the prevention and treatment of obesity and the maintenance of adequate weight. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then vote in a global final vote on the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions No 950 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government protect the Fifth of the English and 1245 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard and enhance the environment and heritage of the Fifth of the English, ensuring its balance with the remaining urban and environmental ecosystem. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u172	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u173	Mr President, the statement of vote will be made later...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u174	No, Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u175	Be registered. I now give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to give us an account of the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Juiz do Trabalo de Lisboa — Juiz 3, Case No 15878 / 20.3T8LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Bebiana Cunha ( PAN ) to intervene within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u177	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You may proceed, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Auditors — Section 3, Financial Responsibility Procedure No 5 / 2021 - JRF-3aS, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to deliver an opinion to authorize Mr Marcos Perestrello ( PS ) to testify in the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u179	Let's vote for him. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Judge of Criminal Instruction of Braga — Judge 1, Case No 31 / 21.7GCBRG, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mr André Ventura ( CH ) within the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u181	Let's vote for him. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Administrative Court of Lisbon — Organic Unit 6, Case No. 951 / 02.8BTLSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. Raul Miguel Castro ( PS ) to testify in the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u183	Let's vote for him. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] For an oral vote on draft Law No 717 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), Mr Duarte Alves of the PCP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Banking moratoriums are much larger in Portugal than they have in other European countries. The prospect of the abrupt end of the moratoriums, in a situation where the normality of life and economic activity has not yet been recovered, may represent the failure of thousands of families to comply with the credit to housing and thousands of companies that have resorted to banking credit. In order to address this situation, the CFP presented an initiative extending the moratoriums, extending the deadline for those who had resorted to private moratoriums to make use of the public if they met the criteria, and allowing access to moratoriums to credits made by the end of 2020. This initiative was generally adopted. However, in a rapid legislative process, given the urgency of the topic, the PS imposed a request for an opinion from the European Banking Authority ( EBA ), extending the discussion of the project for more than 30 days. After 30 days, EBA replied that it did not produce an opinion because, and I quote, « the bill presents only tender links with the ECB's tasks ». This answer only shows that the outlook for the disaster of the financial system, launched by the PS and the PSD, if the proposal of the CFP was approved, was not right, otherwise the European Banking Authority would have said something. In the specialty, the PS and PSD have withdrawn from the scope of this initiative housing credits, which affect thousands of families, and have limited business credits only to some EACs (Portuguese classification of economic activities ). And even worse: they decided to subject this extension to the authorisation of the European Banking Authority. It is limited by PS and PSD, in its scope and in the possibility of having practical consequences, the approved proposal, which resulted from the CFP's initiative, calls on the Government and the Banco de Portugal to remove from the European authorities any obstacles to responding to a situation that particularly affects our country and that will have consequences from September onwards. The CFP will not give up and will re-submit proposals to prevent families and small businesses from seeing themselves at an abrupt end of the moratoriums in September, without the possibility of starting the regular payment of benefits. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u185	Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has several information to give to the House. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Resolution Projects Nos 1341 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 1342 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), 1343 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 1344 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and 1345 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ). I would also like to inform you that you were present by video conference. Members Marta Freitas and Olavo Câmara, PS, elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-18.u187	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. It remains to be announced that the next plenary meeting will be on 23 June, Wednesday, at 3 p.m., and the agenda will include the discussion of Bill No. 807 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ) — Amends the Penal Code and creates Article 335. o -A, defining the crime of illicit or unjustified enrichment, clarifying its objective and subjective assumptions of application, as well as the applicable criminal framework, still distinguishing according to whether or not the agent holds political office. At the end of the debate, there may be a vote. I wish everyone a good weekend and till Wednesday. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 16 minutes.]]
