ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority, we will start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] Mrs. Members, as you know, our agenda today consists of a debate with the Government, on general policy, with the presence of the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. First of all, by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Prime Minister, we have been living today hard times, difficult times, sad times, perhaps the saddest and most hard since 25 April 1974. The PSD wants, at the beginning of this debate, to make public its solidarity with all the families who have already suffered in the flesh the deaths caused by this pandemic. On the other hand, the PSD also wants to praise the thousands and thousands of health professionals who, without measure, readily, generously, volunteer, try to save lives, often from people who do not even know, take risks, enormous risks of their own life, with generosity, with altruism and with self-denial. For many years, Portuguese people will be indebted to these health professionals. This is never too much to underline. It is with great honor and great pride, Mr. President and Mrs. Members, that the PSD has, on its bench, a Member who, in his time outside Parliament, summarizes his duties as a doctor, an infectious doctor, to save lives, to ease suffering and bring hope to the citizens who seek salvation in hospitals, particularly in the hospital of Cascais. There, in the front line, there, in the vault, is where Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite is when he is not in Parliament. [[PSD applause.]] It's a pleasure Ricardo, it's an honor! Thank you, Ricardo Baptista Leite, Dr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, for the generosity and altruism in front of those who suffer and who see die in the hospital of Cascais. In the hospitals of Cascais, Santa Maria, São José, the Covões, Coimbra, Garcia de Orta, Torres Vedras, at this time there are dramatic hours because it is increasingly difficult to respond not only to citizens with COVID, but also to other citizens who seek to save their lives, fight their disease and who no longer have the chance that they were expected and should be. In fact, it demonstrates the office of the Minister of Health. We're leaving people behind. Yesterday, Portugal was the worst country in the world in relation to the number of infections per million inhabitants. Yesterday, Portugal was the second worst country in the European Union in relation to the number of deaths after the Czech Republic, with the Czech Republic decreasing and Portugal still increasing — today, more 218 citizens have died. Therefore, the feeling that there is is that the times of the so propagate go far, and correct, « Portuguese miracle». So, Prime Minister, the first question I ask you is: how did we get to this situation? Mr Prime Minister, how was this human catastrophe possible after everything went so well in the months of March and April last year? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u3	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u4	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, thank you very much. Mr President, I think you have made an excellent synthesis of the one who is the feeling shared by all Portuguese. We certainly live one of the saddest moments, of greater pain and suffering, and the solidarity that we should have toward each of the grieving families, for each of the infected patients, for those who are currently isolated prophylactically is what should cause us all to seek the best answers to face this pandemic. This pandemic has had different phases in the different countries of the world. When the foreign press, and even our President of the Republic, referred to the "Portuguese miracle", I always said that it was necessary to have serenity to see what would happen next, because this pandemic had not come for 15 days, it had not come for three months, it was even a marathon — that is the expression I have used. And it is a very hard marathon, which will require that, at the same time, we work in two fundamental dimensions, being one to continue to increase the response capacity of the National Health Service, which is a flexible, extensible response capacity, which has so far managed to respond to times of greatest need and progressively according to needs. In mid-October, when the government declared the state of calamity, we had 1424 beds affected by COVID; at the end of November, we had extended that number to 3545 beds; today, we have 5795 beds occupied with COVID patients and still have extension capacity. If I wonder if the extension capacity is unlimited, I will tell you that we all know that the extension capacity is not unlimited, because having COVID care beds is not just putting beds, it is not just putting fans, which we have fortunately had the ability to duplicate practically from March to now; it is essential to work and the availability of human resources. Mr. Deputy referred to Dr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, but we can certainly refer to all health professionals in this country who have not turned their faces to the effort that is necessary to confront and stop this pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is something that is absolutely essential for us to have consciousness: we can rely on health professionals, but the greatest help we can give to health professionals is to avoid becoming more sick or to create another patient they have to treat. Now, this does not depend on doctors, nurses or any other health professional; it depends on each one of us, how we adopt individual protection measures and how we ensure physical distancement and comply with the rules to stop this pandemic. It is necessary to address a word of praise to the Portuguese who were, in fact, extraordinary in this first wave in March, which were also extraordinary in those 19 parishes who, in June, resisted the pandemic in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon and who were once again extraordinary when, after the summer, it was necessary to break the second wave. And we managed to do it significantly until Christmas. Despite the accumulated fatigue, despite the accumulated pain, despite the added difficulties, because there are more people who have lost their jobs, because more people have lost their income, because there are more companies that are weaker, despite all this, I am sure that the Portuguese will again mobilize to stop this third wave and they will again be able to overcome, together, this third wave. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is to this end, Mr President, that the government is focused and that is the aim that we are all, I am sure, focused. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u5	Mr Adam Silva continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, the importance of health professionals is disproportionate, and I have left it very emphasized here. The question of individual responsibility and solidarity is absolutely incontrovertible and I would say, even, that this is the circumstance, this is the moment when we are all tested in the need to feel the other and to feel members of a group, a group, a nation. But, Prime Minister, I want to tell you that, in order for all of this to work well, the rules must be clear, rigorous, well explained. And by the time we arrived, as we came to the need for a second confinement, the feeling that we are left is that this was not what happened. The government has not fulfilled its role, the government has been vague in this matter, announced a boundary of account, with so many exceptions on rules that should be clear, clear, clear and understandable. In fact, the government itself was the first to recognize that the rules were not well drawn, they were not well-defined, they were not easily understandable. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister knows that, from Friday to Monday, it was necessary to correct what had become imperfect and wrong in these instructions and in these rules of confinement. We were puzzled! So I ask you, Prime Minister: is there a lack of planning on the part of the government here? Is there an exercise too improvising on the part of the government here? Is there a lack of credibility here for you and for the Government in relation to the Portuguese, or, on the contrary, is there a lack of confidence at this time for the Portuguese in relation to the Government? I leave these questions to you, Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u7	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u8	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, thank you very much for the questions, part of which I will leave to the analysts. As far as I am concerned, I will always say the following: in September, the Government declared the state of contingency; on 15 October, we declared the state of calamity; on 2 November, we asked His Excellency the President of the Republic to declare the state of emergency. As you know, the government has fought with great national consensus so that we can avoid, at all costs, a new general confinement, because we are all well aware of the cost of general confinement. But in April, when we started preparing the defination for the month of May, I also said that I would never have the slightest welcome or the least shame to take a step back if circumstances imposed it. What happened yesterday was not to add to what we had said last Thursday, it was to take into account what we were seeing happening and that required an immediate response. When we allow a restaurant that continues to operate on takeaway we are not opening the door so that an improvised sprawl will mount so that people there will be drinking coffee or drinking a beer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That was the clear sign we wanted to give. We will always give the clear signs and we will always take the measures that, at every moment, justify themselves, with a rule of common sense and balance which I think is absolutely essential, which is the following: to do everything that is necessary, but nothing more than what is necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u9	Knowing it's hard!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u10	We are beating ourselves at the moment by keeping schools open, because we know exactly how much social cost it represents to close them. Tomorrow, we're going to start a quick test campaign in every school to strengthen security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mr President, if for the week, if tomorrow, if tomorrow, or if we know from here to 15 days, for example, that the English strain has become dominant in our country, we will most likely have to close schools. in this case, I'll do what I have to do, which is close schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, at that time you may come to say that I have retreated, but with great pride I will tell you that I have retreated because I will always, at every moment, do what is appropriate in my conscience to do. at this time, it is appropriate to protect and ensure the education of this generation. When the survival of this generation depends on the closure of schools, this will be done, if necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u11	Mr Adam Silva, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, will then begin at schools now to carry out rapid tests. Seeing, as you are seeing, that the most affected age groups are those of the young people between the ages of 13 and 25, I ask: why didn't it start early to perform rapid tests? [[PSD applause.]] Now, Prime Minister, why did not the distribution of computers and the installation of computer networks that you promised in April 2020 begin in the beginning of this year? [[PSD applause.]] I will remind you, Prime Minister, that you said in April 2020 and that you certainly did not forget. It was as follows: "We have taken on a very clear objective. We will start next school year by ensuring universal access to the network and equipment to all students in basic and secondary education." But, Prime Minister, until the end of the first quarter, only one tenth of the necessary computers had been distributed! A tenth! Mr Prime Minister, if you come to technically find reasons—in fact, the technicians are saying that there are — for closing schools, the PSD will never say that you have withdrawn; the PSD will say that you finally made the right decision! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I'll finish. Ex.a said that what we were seeing happening required an immediate response and, as you still have a few seconds to answer me, I ask you: seeing what you were seeing, as I was seeing, on Friday, on Saturday and Sunday, that the reduction in circulation had been of only 30 % compared to the end of the previous week, because it was not the news on Sunday night to make an instant appeal to the Portuguese, to do pedagogy and demand that they comply with what was determined in the containment plan? Why didn't you do that? Oh, my God! It was announced that I was going to make a Council of Ministers on Monday, with new measures to be implemented, it is known when and whose effect is unknown. But, Prime Minister, in my view, you should have gone, on Sunday night, to speak to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u13	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u14	Mr. President, I conclude now. That is what the country needs, a present Prime Minister, to deal with and act at the moment it needs. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u15	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u16	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, I should like to know whether the only doubt I had in my conscience should be whether to speak to the Portuguese on Sunday night or to meet the Council of Ministers on Monday at lunch.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u17	Both!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u18	I wish that was the only doubt in my conscience! On the other hand, you're right, we don't meet the objectives. So far, we have distributed 100 000 computers, which have covered all the students on steps A and B, and we have already awarded the remaining 350 000 computers. I didn't express myself recently. He said we were going to start the antigen test campaign because now we're going to do it in a systematic way and as a campaign, but fortunately, we've already done antigen test. Mr President, I can tell you that the President of the Republic has already promulgated our decree, which will be published today and will enter into force at 0 a.m. tomorrow. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u19	Mr Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u20	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, let me start by noting the enormous concern about the number of infected people in the country, the number of dead — today, 218! — and it is good not to naturalize what is happening. I would like to express my regret for all the lives that have been lost prematurely because of the COVID, as well as a huge thanks to the professionals of the National Health Service (SNS ), who have been tireless, and also to the workers of homes and all essential services, security, transport, cleaning, those who ensure that nothing is missing in the shelves of supermarkets, those who are every day in schools, those who do not miss anything to the country in such difficult circumstances. We need to think about who is ensuring the country and having the enormous humility to understand the difficulty we live in. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had differences at various times — and democracy does not stop! — on what to do, but it is an immense hypocrisy that we try to blame each other, as if someone here had a miraculous solution to what is happening. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u21	That didn't happen. Do we have differences? Yeah. Should we discuss them? Yeah. And so I will. But what responsibility asks us right now is not the pass-by, but the debate on solutions. This is certainly the most serious situation we have already experienced and our solidarity with families, for those who have lost their loved ones, for those with whom you are ill, for those who are on the front line is in the sense of discussing solutions in a clear way and in a solidarity like the country has to face this pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u23	Mr. Prime Minister, the Left Block has simple criteria, which have dictated our actions and what we are proposing, in solidarity with what the health authorities are decreeing and contributing, at every moment, with what we think can be ideas and solutions. We think it is essential that you stop what you can stop and whose stop breaks contagios and that the affected sectors have the support you need, because families have to survive. We're already on the 11th. the month of the pandemic and the social situation is very hard. Yes, stop what has to be stopped to stop contacts and contagions, with the necessary support, in a country that has been suffering for 11 months with the pandemic. All that is essential must continue to be maintained, naturally ensuring the safety conditions of those who work, ensuring the safety conditions at work and also the safety conditions for us to know the risk better. So we have come to propose that there be more testing, screening and knowledge than is happening on the ground. Thirdly, we argue that the National Health Service is strengthened — that the National Health Service is strengthened, I repeat! — which is currently under unprecedented pressure and must be able to respond to priority care, COVID and non-COVID. The country depends on the National Health Service and, therefore, this is our greatest concern, and this is where I wanted to start the debate. Mr. Prime Minister, the Minister of Health announced last week, in the face of pressure in the National Health Service, that it passed to the maximum contingency plan, so priority care and even priority surgeries that did not put the patient at risk of life or serious injury would be postponed. We have SNS hospitals delaying everything, even oncological surgeries, provided they do not put lives at risk immediately, so that it is possible to respond to COVID and we have professionals in the truly exhausted SNS. Exhausted, and I'd say they do miracles, but I don't know if we can ask them any more. And how they need support! We have said it is important to strengthen the National Health Service by requiring installed health capacity in the country, social and private. The government has said that it prefers to do so by agreement. Mr. Prime Minister, last week public hospitals passed the maximum contingency and began to postpone priority surgeries, even oncological, because the SNS was already within its limits. From there, the cases of admissions have grown in more than 200 per day and what we know of the agreements that are made with the private ones is that, in fact, the beds that the privates have made available to COVID do not even arrive for the new infected ones today. There are 80 beds and only today there are 126 more interns; yesterday, there were 276 more, I think, almost 300. What privates are agreeing to make the country available to COVID patients is a drop of water in the middle of a tsunami. And when we look at everything the privates have made available, we see that only 800 more beds have been made available for non-COVID patients. The association of private hospitals tells us that they have 1300 beds, but what they are putting to the service of the country, by agreement, does not reach 8% of their capacity. It is only 800 non-COVID beds and 80 COVID beds. That's not enough, Prime Minister, it's not enough! If not now, when will it be? The government said it would only require the private if and when it was necessary. When we get to record numbers of victims and boarding school, isn't it now? Oh, my God! When the private, after months of negotiation, are not able to provide the State with 10 % even of its capacity, is it not now that we have requested them? If not now, when will it be? We have SNS campaign hospitals that can't open because they don't have enough professionals, but there are professionals and facilities in private and we don't require them. If not now, when will it be? When? Our responsibility is to take care of this country, to care for COVID and non-COVID patients, and that is why I leave this appeal to you, Prime Minister : we place all the installed health capacity of the country, private and social, under the height and joint of the SNS. This moment is not that of each being rowing to his side, this moment is of articulation and to respond, in a disciplined way, to the greatest needs of the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u24	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u25	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, as I have said, has managed to deal with this crisis, even in a state of emergency and without suspending democracy. And it is very important that this is the case, because the debate and the confrontation of ideas result in better solutions, as long as the debate is effectively directed at the search for solutions and not in the logic of confrontation. We all know that the disease results from the virus and that he is not sitting on any of these benches. Those sitting in these benches are the representatives of Portuguese who, legitimately, have different political options and different solutions and ideas for the country. And we have achieved, over these months, a reasonable consensus at the different times when it has been necessary to decree the state of emergency, when it has been necessary to decree restrictive measures of rights, freedoms and guarantees. We have not been unanimous for a long time, but there is, however, a very broad consensus. This debate is important. For example, when it was time to know what was done at Christmas or New Year's, a good consensus was established between the greatest opportunity for families to join in Christmas and the closing of meeting opportunities in the New Year's period. And so we should go on. Madam Member, the instruments of the law should be used whenever necessary. Whether under the state of emergency or under the Basics of Civil Protection Act itself, it is possible for the State to require both human and material means, including establishments to develop activities that are essential and that cannot be developed by any other way. So we will do it - we will do it, but we understand that at this moment it is absolutely necessary not to create conflicts where they are not justified and we can reach agreement whenever possible and as much as necessary. I would like to ask whether we would like to have a broader agreement with the social sector and the private sector. I'm sure you will! We are today better than we were in the past: today, there are about 38 conventions that are already signed, there are already several beds available, either by the social sector, in particular, but also by the private sector, and the government does not need to use, if and when necessary, the measure of the requirement when justified. We haven't reached that point yet, and I hope we never get to that point! And once again I insist: we have to look at the response capacity, but our focus must even be on our determination to prevent this pandemic; on the ability to cut transmission chains, and therefore it is so important to increase the number of beds in intensive care, but it is so important to increase the number of trackers that quickly allow us to accelerate epidemiological investigations; on the identification of cases to be isolated, because this is the only way we can do the cuts in transmission chains. It is therefore essential that we give a new, even stronger boost to testing. Since the beginning of this pandemic, Portugal has been one of the most tested countries. This has even left us exposed, in a difficult way, at a critical time for our tourism industry, which was the beginning of summer. But we also had no doubt that, between the protection of tourism and the identification of cases that we had to identify to isolate and break transmission chains, there was no choice: we had even to invest in testing. Now, we are doing everything we can to keep our education system in full operation, not to disturb, in a second consecutive school year, the formation of these new generations. Today we know what we already suspected in March, but today we can be sure: that the closure of public school, the absence of presenceal education makes inequalities worse and irreversibly harms learning processes. So we have to go to the limit of our forces to protect the public school. So we will launch a new fundamental campaign, starting from tomorrow, starting in the councils of extreme risk, to increase security in schools. Fortunately, schools have had a limited number of cases. No outbreak has emerged, so far essentially, in school space and we must therefore continue to follow this effort so that it will be crowned successfully. Therefore, Mrs Deputies, what I would like to assure you is that if and when the Government feels that it is even necessary to make the request, we will proceed to the request either under the state of emergency, if it allows it, either under the Basics of Civil Protection Act, because that certainly allows it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u26	For the PCP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u27	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, allow me also to begin by subscribing the greeting that was initially made here to all health workers and also, if I may, to extend this greeting to the 2 million Portuguese workers, whether in schools or in transport, whether in large areas, whether in agricultural production or in so many sectors, can work at risk so that many others can be confined. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] The health, economic and social situation that the country is going through requires emergency measures from the Government to address the problems and to ensure the necessary solutions and that they are not limited to measures already taken to protect health. It is necessary to strengthen SNS in professionals, in equipment, mobilize all existing health services in the country, under the direction of the National Health Service. It is necessary to ensure the health protection of those who continue, every day, to work in essential services, including in schools. The workers who are missing in the homes must be hired. It is necessary to ensure that firefighters have access to vaccination and to the appropriate financing of their associations. The problems of the country are wide and deep and the answer must also be. The Government has in the State budget the basis it needs for that answer, and it must give it. I want, therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, to start by questioning you about the area of health, especially the area of vaccination. Pharmaceuticals producing vaccines approved by the European Union do not have sufficient production capacity and do not agree to suspend or share patents for vaccines to be produced by other laboratories. Portugal cannot be a hostage to the European Union and limited to the vaccines of these pharmaceuticals. What will you win, Prime Minister? What will you win in this arm of iron, Prime Minister? The value of profit or the value of human life? As for the strengthening of the SNS, we insist on some solutions that are still urgent and necessary. Will the Government strengthen public health services with the hiring of technicians for public health teams and the hiring of reformed health professionals to conduct surveys and telephone contacts, which are taking some weeks? Will the government move forward with the full use of the Military Hospital of Belém, the Pulido Valente Hospital and other facilities from which the State has to strengthen the hospital response? We know that there are no more beds, more campaign hospitals, there is a need for corresponding health professionals. What is the point of the situation regarding the measure in the State Budget for 2021 regarding the strengthening of health or investment professionals in primary health care? How many of these measures have already been implemented and what does the Government expect to achieve in the short term? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u28	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u29	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, first of all concerning vaccination, what science has provided was absolutely extraordinary, which was to achieve, in less than a year, a vaccine that industrial capacity has been producing. The European Union's decision to make a joint purchase for the 27 Member States, covering the entire population of the 27 Member States and ensuring simultaneous distribution according to its population, was a decision of the greatest importance for Europe as a whole, but surely it was especially important for countries with smaller and lower resources. The fact that Portugal did not have to compete with the major countries of Europe to ensure the availability of vaccines for all its population was absolutely extraordinary. The fact that the European Union has already managed to strengthen the number of doses to be made available and to enable the different Member States, together with Portugal, to contribute to the overall effort of the international eradication of COVID-19, through support, in particular, to African countries, and, in our case, in particular, to our brothers in the Portuguese-speaking African countries, is of the greatest importance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To break this sense of unity, as some have threatened, is indeed a danger and a threat to the guarantee of the fundamental principle of equity between us all. Fortunately, we have had access to vaccines that allow us to carry out the national vaccination programme with a single 24-hour delay. And so we're going to do it, fulfilling, by step and by step, the plan defined by the task force. The State budget has entered into force a few days ago and we are now starting to implement it, particularly with measures that have immediately entered into force, such as the Layoff to 100 %, such as the extraordinary increase in pensions, and the processes that will continue to strengthen the human resources of the National Health Service are also under way. If we are to see now, in January, the number of doctors, for example, and compare it with the number of doctors last January, we will verify that, now that the quarterly variation has been eliminated, we already have more doctors in the National Health Service than we had a year ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is this effort that we will continue in the implementation of the State Budget, which counted on the decisive contribution of the Portuguese Communist Party, not only to be able to be approved, but more than that, by containing the necessary and just measures to respond to the crisis that the country is going through. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u30	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much, Prime Minister, for the explanations which are not entirely convincing. [[PSD Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u32	It's not bad anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u33	We also want to talk about other measures included in the State budget for 2021. The CFP sought to be included in the budget measures for the recovery of workers from essential services, measures to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, payment of 100 % wages, support to those who were left without wages, without employment, increase the value of unemployment subsidies and support for the culture sector. The importance of these CFP proposals was already recognised, but they are now central to the situation in which we live. What is the point of the situation with regard to its implementation? When will essential service workers begin to receive the risk supplement that was entered in the Budget? What is the situation with regard to access by micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to public support? What measures have been taken to eliminate the restrictions that existed and what results can the Government present on the scope of such support? What realisation is being made of payment of 100% wages and support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ( MPMEs ) for this purpose, leaving no one out and ensuring due attention to sectors again affected by restrictive measures, including hotel, tourism and restoration? In relation to the situation of workers, the green receipt, the management partners, the workers with precarious or informal ties and others who have been without wages or activity, when will social security begin to pay the extraordinary social benefit that was created in the State budget for 2021? What about the increase in unemployment benefit, Prime Minister? Has the minimum amount of €504 already started to be paid, or has it been delayed? Finally, in relation to culture, we insist that the proposal of the CFP which was included in the State budget must be fully implemented, it cannot only be half of the money it was estimated.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u34	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u35	Two lines are missing, Mr. President. This support must reach cultural agents, creators and artists, in order to address new limitations that were imposed on their activity but also with the perspective of the resumption of artistic and cultural work. We insist, Mr Prime Minister: the problems of the country are wide and deep and the government's response must also be, even though no one here has the answers all. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u36	They were two lines 'fats', Mr. [[Laughing.]] In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u37	Mr. President, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, in order to try to meet the time I have available, I will reply telegraphly. There are measures that have automatically entered into force, such as payment of 100 % wages, and therefore all people in Layoff are entitled to receive the 100 % salary, without additional charges for companies. With regard to this new support package which has been approved to respond to this new crisis, it has been ensured not only for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for companies without organised accounting that have ceased to suffer any kind of discrimination. The extraordinary payment of pensions is guaranteed. The payment of extended unemployment allowances will enter into force and will be made by February. The extraordinary social benefit will also come into force and will be paid in February. As for penosity and risk subsidies in essential services, they are being worked between the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Finance and, in the context of the negotiation process that is still under way with regard to wage valuation, this is being adequately addressed. Finally, as regards the culture sector, as Mr. Minister of Culture had the opportunity to say, the Guarantee Culture Programme is the first phase of the programme which was approved in the State budget on a proposal from the Portuguese Communist Party and which joins the other measures also adopted, namely those resulting from the extension of the support of DGArtes (Direction-General of the Arts) competitions, the reinforcement that was made for the competition for cinema support, the introduction of 30 % quota for Portuguese music in the radios and the specific measures adopted for literary creation grants to publishers, bookstore support and also for museums. Therefore, in all of these measures, some adopted by the Government, others contained in the State Budget on a proposal from the Portuguese Communist Party, what has been announced is that this is the first phase, and that is what we will run throughout the year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u38	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u39	Mr President, Prime Minister, the feeling of emergency, solidarity and regret is common. Having said that, I have to ask you a question. At a time when everything that we wanted from the beginning to do is happening, at a time when Portugal, in terms of the pandemic, is one of the worst countries in the world, regardless of the ranking that we have followed, what I ask you, Prime Minister, in consciousness, is whether, knowing what you know today, you would have taken the same measures you have taken during the period of holidays and Christmas. It is a question addressed to your conscience and also to your humility.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u40	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u41	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, there is one thing I can assure you: today, in the circumstances in which we are, none of us would have defended those measures. The measures are taken in accordance with the circumstances and data we have. We have always tried to ensure that decisions were made on the basis of better scientific information. Consider the example of the current circumstance: we have always renewed the state of emergency of 15 in 15 days. However, in January, we understood that it was sensible only to extend the state of emergency cautiously for seven days, so that we could decree the current state of emergency taking into account a more consolidated information on what was the reality of the country after the holiday period. And we did well, we did well! It is that if we had had the meeting at Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority) on the day originally scheduled, we would have adopted measures for a reality in which we had about 4000 new cases—I believe that on that day there were 4950 new cases—when, two days later, the number of new cases was more than 10 000. And that's how we've been keeping ourselves ever since. So, fortunately, the measures we have taken have already been adjusted to the reality that we had in mind, which is that we have to be with more than 10 000 new cases a day, and not to the illusory reality that we would have had at that time, which was 4000 cases. If the honourable Member thinks that he solves the country's problems by saying that the fault of the way families celebrated Christmas was mine and that is why we are in the situation in which we are, Mr, offer me, from now on, to this sacrifice and let your conscience find it even that I was responsible for being in the situation in which we are. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But what I will never do is take refuge in the example of others who, at that time and in those circumstances, defended precisely what I did. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is how I live with my conscience, and taking full responsibility for the circumstances in which the country is today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u42	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u43	Mr President, Prime Minister, we are already going to the confinement and what everyone has defended — I am very pleased about that. Before that, I wanted to ask you a very concrete question. Mr. Prime Minister, we should have received 96 000 doses of the Pfizer vaccine this week. We receive, as far as I know, 47 000 and are expected to receive, I think, more 96 000 at the beginning of next week. I don't know how many doses we'll receive. I ask you: do you have guarantees of how many doses we will receive next week, or not? Another very concrete question, Prime Minister, is this: on the other hand, this failure in supply, Prime Minister, is due to what? Bilateral purchases from any Member State? Yes or no? And, if so, from whom? As you are also President of the European Council at this time, you will certainly know that. Mr. Prime Minister said he was going to make a stock management. I ask you what that means specifically. I ask you whether, as a media agency was particularly aware, this means or not delaying the second use of the vaccine and for when. It is that social communication has reported that the second take would be spent 40 days of the first, so there will be a delay. And the information I have is that of a Pfizer communiqué—I don't know whether there will be any further or not—that says there is no guarantee of the effectiveness of the same vaccine if the second take is done more than 21 days ago. This is what a Pfizer communiqué says, which I have access to, but I don't know if there will be any further, if there will be any information other than that. However, any postponement would entail a very great risk, Mr. Prime Minister. So I ask you whether you are going to do it or not. And if you admit to doing so, I ask you if you have any documents that contradict this document I refer to from Pfizer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u44	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u45	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, telegraphically, because you still have time to ask another question and I still want to have time to answer, I must say to you first that the break in delivery of the vaccines this week is due, as Pfizer explained, to the works you are doing at your factory, which led to a reduction in distribution for all the countries of the European Union. Secondly, what task force proposed was that there should be an acceleration of the vaccination, of the first take, in the homes, because it is proven that the first take, by itself, increases the degree of immunization, without there being a risk of postponement of the second take. Thirdly, what the European Medicines Agency and Pfizer have reported was that the second dose allocation period may be between 21 and 42 days. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u46	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u47	Mr President, Prime Minister, that reference to which the second dose allocation period may be between 21 and 42 days contrary to Pfizer itself, but obviously I must accept your answer. As far as confinement is concerned, I have always been in favour of the state of emergency, I continue to be and I will always be, regardless of the position of each one — that is known and public. But there's something that doesn't make much sense, Prime Minister. In March, when we started general confinement, we had 642 cases per day, 2 deaths and 20 admissions to ICU (intensive care unit). at this time, comparing with March, we do not have 642, but more than 10,000 cases per day, we have exceeded today the 200 deaths, unfortunately, and the ICUs are, by the news we know, on the edge of exhaustion. So what doesn't make sense, not just to me as surely to many Portuguese, is how the confinement is more light, let's say, now than what was in March. Doesn't seem to make any sense. In fact, this even creates the idea that we, instead of following what should be a general precautionary principle, of always being ahead of events, are following a principle of experimentation, a little to see if it results, if it does not work and what it does, always running behind the damage. This has to do with, when he was talking about the first measures, with the following example: before confinement, we had reduced hours, up to 13 hours, which concentrated people and originated one of the criticisms; now, we have longer times and, however, since three days ago, has also changed. With regard to schools, I want to ask you a question with great sincerity, without any exercise beyond that, and what has to do with the following: how many students do we have in the country? About 2 million students. In addition to these 2 million students, we certainly have, especially with regard to the younger ones, their parents, who have to travel to get them and get them to school. Now, the question I leave you with is this: how does the Prime Minister want to have an effective, rigorous confinement when he has 2 or 3 million people circulating every day? It is not possible, because this then creates the whole context of such movement, which leads to the lack of effective confinement. Mr. Prime Minister, first of all, says that there are no major contagions in schools. But I also told us today that it will start tests in schools tomorrow. So I ask you: if you're just going to start testing in schools tomorrow, how do you know there are no significant contagions? It's just that one of the experts we've heard says exactly...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u48	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u49	I am really finishing up, Mr President, without prejudice until I now spend time on the second round, if I may.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u50	So from now on, the most discounted time in the second round, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I said, one of the experts that we have heard says precisely that students from 13 to 17 years of age can be complicated cases in terms of contagions. Mr. Prime Minister also says that we cannot sacrifice the education of a generation. Mr. Prime Minister, I can't agree anymore. But if we don't sacrifice a month at most of classes, can we be sacrificing lives in other generations? Oh, my God! It makes no sense to me, Prime Minister! Even because you have other mechanisms you can resort to. For example, why does it not prolong the school year, compensating this month, then, when the situation is more controlled and the vaccination is more advanced and may have even vaccinated the teachers themselves? Why don't you use other mechanisms, Prime Minister? I tell you honestly, Mr Prime Minister, without measures of general confinement, we will hardly be able to overcome this situation. Mr. Prime Minister called for a civic assault. I accept, because there are situations of irresponsibility and irresponsibility is collective. But more than civic distress, political courage is needed to determine a serious confinement, because the situation is indeed very serious. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u52	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u53	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, the easiest, as a political decision-maker, was actually closing schools,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u54	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u55	...because the cost of closing schools is not immediate, unlike the cost of closing coffee, restaurant or small trade. The problem is that the cost of closing the school today will pay you 10 or 20 years from here. So politically, what was convenient was to close the school, but what is politically responsible is to beat us to keep the schools open. That's why we're gonna do everything we can to keep the schools open. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, we have a total of 5400 public schools — I am just talking about the public — in the whole country. at this moment, only 13 in 5400 — only 13 at this moment! — are closed by outbreaks identified by the health authorities. And whenever there is an outbreak, the health authority will close. We have a total of 1 140 000 students; at present we have 39 000 students in custody. What does that mean? This means medical surveillance is done. Ask me: “So how do you know? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” For a simple reason; every time someone is infected, there is an epidemiological inquiry and, therefore, it is known who is infected and what is the context. Here's the numbers we know. But there's a price. It is recalled that last year we made that decision. I made that decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u56	And he boasted of it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u57	And also in the face of the same lack of scientific consensus that exists today. The honourable Member was in the same session as I was at Infarmed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u58	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u59	And he saw, moreover, that on this subject there was even a quite lively debate among the different experts.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u60	There was only one dissenting opinion!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u61	Listen, it was much more comfortable for all of us, surely, that we have to make decisions, we can have the comfort of all scientists. Unfortunately, during this pandemic, rare were the moments when this was possible, which, in fact, is natural, because each scientist thinks of his or her head and this scientific freedom is fundamental. And it is also natural that, in the face of something that is new, there is uncertainty about the scientific position.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u62	Mr. Prime Minister, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u63	But, Mr President, this is like when we are going to drive: it is easy for those who are on the side to think, but those who are going to drive have a duty to know how to listen, to be attentive to the signs, to know when it can accelerate, when it has to stop, when it has to make another change and when it has to change its meaning. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's what I'm trying to do every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u64	I have the floor to ask questions, Mr André Silva, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u65	Mr President, I begin by greeting all those who are in the front line as the country borders again. Mr. Prime Minister, today we are one of the countries with the largest number of new COVID cases per million inhabitants and the third with the greatest number of deaths. We have queues of waiting for ambulances and people who die while waiting to be cared for. We therefore need intelligent and coherent measures. We know, through a scientific data analysis study, that mobility explains 99, 5 % of the territorial expansion of the pandemic, a study that points to a combination of four measures that minimize the impact on the economy and maximize the control of the transmission of the virus: the limitation of the public transport lot and the strengthening of its supply; the obligation of telework; online classes from the third cycle; and time restrictions of purchases by age segments. The telework must be compulsory, but Mr Prime Minister, if the Act (Working Conditions Authority) has means and even admits to strike, how do you intend to carry out the supervision? The increase in supply in public transport should have been planned since March, only in September has advanced with the competition, we are in January and nothing has changed. Now, those with their own car increase expenses and those who are not subject to them. As for schools, the age group from 13 to 17 years is the one in which the incidence of infection has increased in the last two weeks. We know that school is fundamental to reducing social inequalities and that, in order to take on online education, it would be necessary to fulfill the promises of the Minister of Education. What I ask you, Prime Minister, is whether the fact that the 3rd cycle is not taking lessons at a distance is not related to the promised digital transition that has not yet occurred.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u66	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u67	Mr President, Mr André Silva, the strengthening of public transport has existed since the beginning of the pandemic, either at the offer or by accompanying the reduction of the lot. With regard to telework, we adopted more measures yesterday, requiring that all workers in telework have a credentials passed by the employer attesting their indispensability and, on the other hand, with regard to large companies, i.e. those who have more than 250 employees in the service sector, who communicate to the ACT within 48 hours the nominal list of workers who consider it essential, so that the ACT can make the proper supervision. As far as teaching is concerned, yes, and I have had the opportunity to say, the process of acquiring computer equipment took longer than we wanted. We only have 100 000 distributed computers, which ensures compliance with all steps A and B; at present we have more than 350 000 already hired and we have to open an invitation to tender for the rest. But that is not why school is not closed. What justifies the failure to close the school is what we all learn about, on which none of us today may have doubts: there is no distance teaching, no matter what it is, that ensures the quality of present education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u68	Mr André Silva continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u69	Mr. Prime Minister, a Ukrainian citizen was cruelly murdered by the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders), an attack on the most basic values of human dignity and a black page in our state of democratic law. The Government and President of the Republic have failed and it is imperative that firm measures be taken to ensure that the case is not repeated. The government — and very well! — has promptly prosecuted the compensation to the family of Homeniuk. But, Prime Minister, it's not enough. We have to talk about the right of return, a dissuasive measure of undue behaviour of public servants, which, in essence, obliges the State to recover from those responsible the value of the compensation paid. The placement of judicial action by the State to ensure the effective accountability of those who murdered Homeniuk, more than a legal imposition, is a moral and political obligation of a State that really wants to demarcate these crimes. Mr. Prime Minister, will the Portuguese State try this judicial action or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u70	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u71	Mr President, honourable Member, the whole murder is barbarous and when committed by a police force is intolerable in a democratic rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the State acted from a criminal point of view and, moreover, from the point of view of the General Inspection of Internal Administration ( IGAI ), which was, in fact, further in the identification of those responsible than the criminal investigation itself had gone. But the State went even further because, as soon as it had completed the IGAI report, it immediately acted through the Ombudsman's compensation mechanisms, according to the victim's family, whose payment order has already been issued. And, as always, the necessary instruction has been sent to the Attorney General of the Republic — because in civil law matters we can give instructions — in order to exercise the right of return. We have done so in this case, as we have done with respect to compensation for the victims of the fires in Borba or for the victims of forest fires, and we will never neglect the exercise of the right of return, because the real perpetrators have to pay for what the taxpayers are doing in solidarity. But whoever's responsible really has to pay at the end of the day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u72	Mr André Silva, of the NAP, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u73	Mr. Prime Minister, on the construction project of Douro Marina Hotel, a luxury hotel in the municipality of Mesão Frio, UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ) warns the Portuguese State that its approval will place the Douro Vinhateiro landscape on the list of goods classified in danger, « opening the way for a future exclusion from the list of world heritage». We know, Mr. Prime Minister also knows that environmental impact assessments in our country are a fantasy and so often allow almost everything that has money. Dr. António Costa, what do you think of this project? How will you want to get acquainted with history? How did the Prime Minister who defended our natural and cultural heritage or the Prime Minister who allowed to declassify the High Douro Vinhatier of World Heritage?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u74	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u75	Mr President, Mr André Silva, there is one thing I can assure you: the last concern I have is my relationship with history. On this subject, it is in fact going through a public consultation of an environmental impact study until January 29. The North Regional Coordination and Development Commission shall, in due course, send the final documentation of the environmental impact assessment to the previous hearing until 12 March and, on the basis of this, there shall be the competent decisions by the competent authorities which, in this case, do not go through the Prime Minister. The stage in which I already had the skills to license works was an earlier stage of my life, but at the moment I no longer have the competence to license works. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u76	To put questions, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by greeting health professionals as well as all workers, who continue to allow the country not to stop at all. Some, even at risk, continue to ensure the essential in this fight, which is collective. Mr Prime Minister, at a time when the SNS is coming — if it has not already arrived — to the limit of its response capacity, particularly at hospital level, it is urgent to take measures that effectively contribute to resolving the problem and not to aggravate it. Every day is announced the creation of new beds, new campaign hospitals, etc. It may not be too much, but we all know that the crucial issue lies in the lack of health care workers, particularly nurses and doctors. As we know, in hospital terms, the response to COVID falls, above all, on certain medical specialties and the prolongation of the pandemic over time, the lack of rest, resulting from the time overload generated by the lack of health professionals, and the risk to which these professionals are exposed are major stress factors, which are putting these professionals in a state of fatigue above their limits and in permanent suffering. But among these professionals there is one group, which is not so small — we are talking about around 1000 — who is still suffering from another stress factor and experiencing a situation of great injustice. I am referring to the internal doctors who arrive this year at the end of the specialty and are obliged to take the final exam. In normal time, this examination takes place in March, but, after much pressure, Mrs. Minister of Health marked the exams for April. It happens that from March to April little or nothing solves, especially if we take into account that last year, with a much less complicated situation, the exams were postponed until June. As Mr Prime Minister should imagine, many of these young doctors, particularly those of the specialties, who assure the front line in response to COVID-19, are on the verge of exhaustion. They assure many of the nights—sometimes, several in the same week—, weekends and that they cannot use the rest days to which they are entitled. But, as we understand, this burden, coupled with the very anemic state generated by the situation itself, is not the most favourable framework for drawing up the final report to which they are required and studying for an examination that is of great importance to the future of their careers. In addition, during the three days of the exams, they are not only those examined who cease to be at the service, but also their doctors tutors and other members of the jury. It would therefore be wise to ensure that the examination takes place at a smoother stage of the contagion. What we wanted to know, Mr Prime Minister, is whether there is any opening by the Government to reconsider the marking of this examination in June, in the same way as what happened last year when the situation was not so serious. It would not only be a way of disrupting the fight against COVID at such a critical stage, but also an act of justice and the best demonstration of recognition and respect that can be done to these young doctors, who have given themselves both in the fight against COVID and who need time and quiet to prepare an examination with so much importance for their future. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u78	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u79	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, this time the answer is relatively synthetic. Mr CL will remember that, even very recently, when we discuss here the State Budget Act for this year, the Assembly of the Republic has asked to set out Article 278. the, paragraph 4, of the same law, the specific timetable for the entire procurement process, in particular the date of the examinations. at this time, the Government is obliged to comply with the timetable set out in the State Budget Act by the Assembly of the Republic, which has been approved, as we know, a long time ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u80	It is the time of Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, to ask questions. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, are indeed with the heavy heart that we are here today: 218 of our compatriots have lost their lives, more than 9000 since the beginning of the pandemic. But the Portuguese who did not have death near or have not suffered near are also sad, because yesterday they saw Mr. Prime Minister on television, angry to say that the fault was theirs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u82	I didn't say anything like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u83	I would like to take into account the commitments made by the Government seven months ago in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme to see if the Portuguese are actually to blame. It's because there are things that have been done, Prime Minister. The relief of the rules of public procurement was made and approved here in the Assembly the special regime of expropriations and administrative services, which awaits promulgation, but which is an unbelievable thing. However, computers and computer networks for schools have not been made; the strengthening of tables and reduction of judicial costs in justice has not been done; the increase in the solutions of Housing First for homeless people has not been made; the capitalization instruments for companies, whether the Capitalisation Fund, or the already famous one, that never again came out of the role, the Development Bank, have not been done; and in the SNS the care activity has not been stimulated—with the consequences known—and the epidemiological surveillance systems have not improved, which must be the source of what is a real confusion in identifying traces of transmission chains, and with this a loss of pandemic control. Is it also the fault of the Portuguese, Prime Minister, that none of this has been done in the last seven months?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u84	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u85	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, I can assure you that yesterday I should certainly not be smiling, but even an optimist, in these circumstances, has little reason to smile.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u87	But don't confuse the absence of a smile with irritation, because I wasn't angry. Much less irritated with the Portuguese and much less blamed the Portuguese. But if you review what I said, you'll find out I was wrong. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u88	To put questions, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, none of us ignores, in this House, that today is a particularly difficult day, in which there are more dead and more Portuguese infected. Therefore, the first word of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is of regret and solidarity with the families of those who have died, but also with those who are infected today. The second word is recognition, encouragement and encouragement for all those who, over the past 11 months, have not turned their backs on this fight, from firefighters to professionals of the National Health Service, from urban cleaning workers to workers who make us come home every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u91	Let me add to this herculean effort of the entire Portuguese society the effort, that I and this parliamentary group have been witnesses, of the government for the work it has done on all fronts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is easy to find in each of us, in our conversations, all solutions. It is easy to say: "Let's go here, let's go there", it's easy to say: "Close the whole country" and it's easy to say: "The best thing is not to close up". The difficulty, even difficult, is, in an emergency situation like the one we are living in, having to make political decisions, decisions that dramatically interfere with people's lives. To govern is to decide, but it is to decide with good sense, with balance and, above all, it is to decide in view of what are the recommendations that science, epidemiologists, our experience of these 11 months will give us to make those same decisions. It is therefore very important that now, in this debate, and on such a particularly sad day for many, of anguish and pain, we should not forget the work that the Government, together with this Parliament, has done. It's just that it was necessary, ladies and gentlemen. Members, over the past 11 months, respond to three emergencies simultaneously: the health emergency, the economic emergency and the social emergency. Because it is necessary to save lives and because it is necessary to treat people, we can say today that, over these months, we have doubled the number of beds of intensive care units;...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u92	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u93	... that we have more 8000 health professionals, only in the last year and only for COVID ; that we have a capacity, as never seen, of testing—we started with a thousand and few tests and, today, are made about six million—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u95	... that we went from 1 to 128 laboratories that do tests, 42 of which in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all this has been added to a reinforcement that has never been seen... [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] I know the right doesn't like it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u96	Don't you like it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u97	I know that the right answer was not to have more 8,000 health professionals, it was to have fewer than a few;...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u98	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u99	...it was not to have more testing, it was to have less than a few;... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u100	That's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u101	... it was not to bet on the National Health Service and that it could have the complementarity of private health professionals or the social sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u102	What a fool! We must have a sense of the moment we are living!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u103	The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if the numbers impress us, they give us determination to continue the fight and strengthening of the National Health Service in order to ensure that all Portuguese have the right to treatment. If we have done this fight to respond to the health emergency, we have also done so to respond not only to what was the need for a first confinement and a second confinement, with which we are now confronted, but also to the economic emergency. I think it is worth stressing here the government's efforts to inject in the Portuguese economy, in recent months, EUR 29 billion for small and medium-sized enterprises, for the various sectors,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...so that we will not suffocate the economy and ensure that, despite everything, things are going well. That is why the Government has from the outset guaranteed, with the support of several banks, but in particular of the Socialist Party, that the Layoff ceases to be 66 % and could be 100 %, because, for us socialists, it is essential that people can maintain their jobs and their incomes. Therefore, we responded to the social emergency and, if we did, it was because we did not ignore that inequalities became more demanding and needed a response, and this response could only be given by more social protection, by the extension of unemployment benefit, by strengthening social unemployment benefit, by creating a new social benefit. This one, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the fight of volunteers for one day to make politics in the other,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u104	...it is not the fight of 170 people at dinner without the slightest distance, so that the other day we will be crying "crocodile tears" for the deaths. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] This is a fight of all—of all! — and which requires the solidarity of all. That is why, Prime Minister, I will never steal from you to say that, in the face of the requirement, you have ruled, in the face of fear, if you have acted and, in the face of uncertainty, we have acted with no hesitation — to use your expression, Prime Minister — from here and there we have to go calibrate, because that is even to govern according to the situation, depending on what is happening. But today's responsibility—and it is the call of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group—is the responsibility to stay at home. The virus does not choose age, sex, religion or residence. The virus is invisible, it's implacable. There is no immortal in this struggle, there is only one thing: responsibility. And this war we have fought together will have to be won together and on that day we will draw the conclusions of those who have met the demanding challenge. For now, we only demand one thing: responsibility of all political actors, responsibility of all Portuguese! In the midst of this, Mr. President, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, these are dramatic moments, difficult times when we have to value everyone's effort, as I have already said, in health, as is obvious, but also in businesses and families, in their commitment to the economy and the rigour of implementing support measures. The data that we have today, Prime Minister, show that the economy has hit all the forecasts in the third quarter of last year and that it has continued with behavior above the forecasts in the fourth quarter, the result of the measures we have taken in the Budget, either in our Recovery and Resilience Plan, or in the measures we would have to apply, as in November and October, after the approved Budget, more than EUR 1500 million for our companies. And if there is no economy without health, there will also be no future without employment and without savings. The Portuguese economy is expected to fall sharply in 2020, it was inevitable, but I want to highlight two areas which are preparing for the future: employment, which has been resilient, with unemployment which has fallen since August ; and investment, which has had one of the best behaviours in all euro area countries, and must grow in the second half. No other country in the euro area has shown, in these indicators, the greatest focus on the future, employment and investment, which are the two biggest bets in the future that the economy may want. So, Prime Minister, the Portuguese economy continues to be surprised by the positive and what we can say today to the Portuguese...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u106	I'm done now, Mr. President. What we can say today to the Portuguese who contribute, with their daily efforts, to this behavior, is evident: if we are in the middle of a pandemic and an unprecedented war to save lives, we are also in an unprecedented war to save the economy, to save people and to save the social protection of those who need it most. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u107	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u108	Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, with all honesty, I think we have to assume that this is a fight that is still about to last for many and long months. This is because until we reach the level of Community immunisation, of collective immunisation of our society, we will not overcome or overcome this pandemic — and that moment will only be reached when 60 % to 70 % of the population is immunized — or because unfortunately, in the meantime, it has been infected or because, fortunately, it has been vaccinated. Until then, this fight will last. I remember that in March, many understood that we should soon enter the state of emergency, because we were going home for 15 days and we conquered this crisis. Unfortunately, it didn't happen. I always had the very clear notion that this was a marathon, and a marathon that would last much longer than the usual 42 km. So we still have a lot of time ahead of us, and in this time that we are in front of us, we must continue to be able to work on the different dimensions that this crisis requires us. Priority of priorities: health! And in health, we have a moment of hope today that we did not have. Today, we know that there is even a vaccine and that for many months that has led to the completion of the vaccination process, there is a way to reach the end of this tunnel. There's not only one light, it's even possible to get to the tunnel light. at this time, some thousands of health professionals have already received the second take of the vaccine and are therefore definitely vaccinated. by accelerating the process of vaccination of the elderly who are confined to homes, we will accelerate, over the next few weeks, the process of immunisation of the group with the greatest risk of contamination, and thus we will continue, step by step, to ensure collective immunization. Then there is another dimension: we must continue to increase the structural response capacity of the National Health Service. And, therefore, an important part of our recovery and resilience program is precisely to invest structurally in strengthening the National Health Service, and it is not for this pandemic, it is for the future of Portuguese health, because we know that the stronger the National Health Service will be the better the future of Portuguese health. We also need to strengthen the immediate capacity of the National Health Service. That is why an extraordinary effort must be made to « multiply bread», so that there is capacity and elasticity. And here I have exemplified how we have succeeded so far in increasing the number of intensive care beds, the inpatient beds of COVID patients, and how we have managed to count on the extraordinary support of health professionals. We know that in order to do so, we need to free hospitals from social patients. And what has been done, over these months, to remove from the beds of the hospitals who were abandoned there and to find them conditional accommodation, because they had nowhere to go, was absolutely extraordinary. Today, we have these beds available. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Tomorrow, the campaign hospital will enter into operation here, in the city of Lisbon, at the University Stadium. In the first strike, this hospital was mounted and, fortunately, it was not necessary; today, unfortunately, it is necessary and will be activated tomorrow. But let's also count, thanks to the collaboration of the Portuguese Football Federation, with the possibility of using the House of the Athletes, the house of selections, the house where our champions usually stay, to serve as a rear guard for those who need care that do not require hospital admission. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, we must continue to strengthen efforts in prevention and prevention means more and more tests, more and more screening and less delay in identifying and breaking the contagio chains, which is absolutely essential. But there is something that is absolutely irreducible: we may have the best National Health Service in the world, but if each one of us does not have the care due to protect his/her/its health, health and life from those around him/her, we will not be able to stop this pandemic. And what the Portuguese have already demonstrated, in the successive vacancies of this pandemic, is that they were even able to mobilize to confront it and to manage. I am sure that this, from the very beginning, is the most serious moment of the pandemic we have experienced, the Portuguese, once again, will be able to block. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is very important to have the notion that it is not because there are already some Portuguese with the first and second doses of the vaccine and that more and more Portuguese will have the first and second doses of the vaccine that the pandemic has disappeared. And, therefore, if we do not keep the care, after we succeed in overcoming this gap, we will surely have new vacancies ahead and new serious moments to deal with and fight. This is something that we have to deeply internalize in our everyday behavior. I understand very well what this means for people, at the end of all these months, and the difficulty in living with this restriction of their freedoms. I've been in prison 15 days and I know what it costs! Fortunately, I have not been ill, but I have seen many people who have been ill, some, fortunately, without symptoms and others, unfortunately suffering a lot from this disease, even when they did not have to be hospitalized. So we really have to assume this as a collective responsibility. If it is easy to say that the Prime Minister's fault is, they resolve your conscience like this; now, what they don't solve is the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we must continue this work and we must do it with a sense of national unity, with a spirit of community, as Mr Adam Silva said a few years ago, of this being one of those moments when it is really necessary to feel that we depend on each other, regardless of the differences of opinion that make each one feel at the bench where each one sits. And while we are fighting this battle for health and life, we must also fight for the preservation of Portuguese income and prevent poverty from increasing with this crisis, that inequalities worsen with this crisis. We must continue to fight to protect the employment of Portuguese and to defend the companies of Portugal and we must work hand in hand with the entrepreneurs, with the workers, with those who have lost their jobs, so that everyone feels that, no matter how difficult this is, no matter what difficulties we are facing, we will not leave anyone behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is an effort which, in fact, requires the mobilization of resources. Last year, the country will have lost something like EUR 15 billion of its national wealth and all the measures to support the economy, businesses and families totaled EUR 22 billion. And each person can ask: Is that enough? Of course it's not enough! How can we say that we support 20 % of the loss of turnover of a restaurant if this means that we are not supporting the remaining 80 % of the loss? Oh, my God! What this has to mean is an extraordinary mobilization of national resources to support those we have to support as much as possible. But without illusions, without the false illusions that we will leave this pandemic with no wounds and no scars! We're gonna have scars, we're gonna get hurt, but there's one thing we need to focus on, which is that we're actually going to be able to get out of this crisis, heal the wounds and assimilate the scars. This may take time, but it's the result we're gonna get. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u109	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall immediately move on to the second round of questions and answers. I have the floor to ask questions by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mónica Quintela.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u110	Mr President, first of all I welcome Mr Prime Minister, Mr President. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the appointment of the European Prosecutor, in press statements on 7 January, Mr Prime Minister said, and I quote: "Who is responsible for appointing the Prosecutor representing Portugal? to the Government. The pure government could simply have chosen anyone who understood well.' This is what Mr. Prime Minister said on January 7. However, realizing that he had to explain to Europe in a letter of 12 January, addressed to Dacian Ciolos, he said, and I also quote, that there would be no decontextualizations or truncated texts: « In this context, I inform you that, in Portugal, the selection of the three judges to be indicated for the European Public Prosecutor's Office is not the responsibility of the Government, but of the Superior Councils of the Magistrature and the Public Prosecutor's Office, in accordance with Law No 112 / 2019 of 10 September. Do not keep on seeking. ” Question : Where do we stand, Prime Minister, having made absolutely contradictory statements? Why did he give different explanations in Portugal and Europe, and both are false, because he cites a law, Law No. 112 / 2019, which still did not exist when candidates were selected? Oh, my God! in this letter, he also says that, in accordance with Article 13. the Law No 112 / 2019, the Superior Council of the Public Ministry selects and orders, which is false, candidates. And this mistake, like all the others, is not innocent, Mr. Prime Minister. How do you explain another mistake in a letter sent by the Prime Minister to Europe? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u111	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions. First of all, Portugal is only part of this enhanced cooperation mechanism of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, because the PSD / CDS Government has ended, which refused to integrate this enhanced cooperation, and my Government has entered into office, in which one of the first decisions was to join the enhanced cooperation programme, the creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. If it hadn't been this government, we wouldn't have European Public Prosecutor's Office in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, contrary to what the PSD and CDS government did, which amended the law as the Minister of Justice could choose who she fully understood to represent Portugal in Eurojust ( the European Union Agency for Criminal Justice Cooperation ), we proposed to this Assembly, and this House approved, that whoever selected the judges to be appointed for international bodies were the Superior Councils of the Magistrature and the Public Ministry. Who selected the three candidates presented by Portugal was the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, who scored them and ordered them was the Superior Council of the Public Ministry and I would like to know what the PSD would say if we, instead of having maintained the ordination made by the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, had opted for the ordination made by an international jury, which does not result from an independent and autonomous judiciary, but from a political designation, by a political body, which is the European Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u114	Finally, Mrs Deputies, the matter has already been duly examined in the Council and, therefore, the honourable Member will be able to find out what the conclusion reached on the legality of the whole designation process was. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u115	I see Mrs Mónica Quintela, and I say 'what I see', because, as I have two Members of the PSD registered to ask questions, they should say who speaks at every moment. You have the floor, Mrs. Monica Quintela.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u116	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, let's leave the past, because it's very easy to hide... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u117	Yeah, yeah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u118	...and that's not what happened. [[Go, go!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u119	Look, what the PSD would say about the indication of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office is that the law must be respected. But, Prime Minister, they do not try to divert the matter, because the explanations are not given and so much so that tomorrow in the European Parliament there will be an urgent debate on the transparency of the European Prosecutor's appointments. In fact, I want to see who goes to this debate, whether it is the Secretary of State for European Affairs or the Minister for Justice, who must be there, unless the Prime Minister understands, and will also answer this, that the Minister of Justice has no means to ensure this debate, which is another question I leave here. Does the Minister of Justice have the conditions to go to the debate tomorrow and then to respond on 27th to the Committee on Justice, Freedoms and Home Affairs? Another question: in that same letter, and in other statements, Mr. Prime Minister mentioned, as he said here, now that the Government followed the classification of the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry. How does it justify, then, an e-mail sent on November 25, 2019 by the Chief of Staff of the Minister of Justice, Commissioner Henrique Antunes, to indicate the name of the Prosecutor Conde Correia, secondly classified by the Superior Council of the Public Prosecutor, in order to occupy this position? This e-mail was addressed to the former Director of DGPJ ( Directorate-General for Justice Policy ), who sent it to Dr. Mariana Sotto Major, in REPER ( Permanent Representation of Portugal to the European Union ). One day this e-mail will appear and, therefore, now here, it is not worth denying it. This indication completely removes the argument that has been spent — right now, here, Mr. Prime Minister said - and that it has been used to justify the appointment of José Guerra. Knowing that it was not José Guerra the first choice of the government, I ask what was behind the choice of the European Prosecutor, Prime Minister. Has a competent but uncomfortable prosecutor been removed from the government, and at the same time indicate someone of the personal and political confidence of the Government, Prime Minister? I thank you for answering this question, because all this is about to be answered. The PSD is not satisfied, Europe is not satisfied and, indeed, these explanations are urgent. Everyone is waiting for you to give them, and so there will be debates. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u120	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u121	Mr President, Madam Member, I repeat what I said recently: firstly we only have European Public Prosecutor's Office in Portugal, because the PSD/CDS-PP government is over. The PSD government / CDS-PP was against the European Public Prosecutor's Office! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Minister of Justice Paula Teixeira da Cruz refused that Portugal was part of this enhanced cooperation and today we are part of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u122	He should be here and he's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u123	Secondly, the law passed in the Assembly of the Republic, on a proposal from this Government, has resolved in a very clear manner and in accordance with our constitutional model, that those who proceed to the selection are the organs that independently manage the judiciary and are not the political choices of the Government. Third, Mrs Deputy, I do not know « uncomfortable prosecutors» or « friendly prosecutors» of the government! I know the Attorneys of the Republic, who certainly fulfill their role in defending legality, irrespective of the government in office. [[P.S.'s applause.]] “Friendly prosecutors” or “uncomfortable prosecutors” are not prosecutors! Prosecutors are those who serve a dignified, autonomous judiciary like our Public Ministry, regardless of who the government is. I also want to tell you, on my side, that the government does not have any prosecutors as uncomfortable or as friends. The government has chosen what it should choose in this case. Ask me why the government has corrected. He corrected precisely because the indication that was being made did not respect the criterion that should be followed, i.e. scrupulously fulfilling the ordination that had been made by the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry. That is why, after having indicated one person the following day, he indicated another person who was the first to remain in the ordination made by the Superior Council of the Public Ministry. Madam Member, we understand that you do not want to do mysteries where they do not exist. I am telling you, with all ease, the following: the corrections of the factual errors contained in a letter and which have been promptly corrected, as soon as we have had public knowledge of them, have already been duly appreciated by the Council's own body, which has already given the case properly closed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u124	Mrs Mónica Quintela continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u125	Mr President, Prime Minister, record without surprise that he did not answer any of the questions I put to him because, indeed, there are no arguments against the facts. [[PS protests.]] Mr Prime Minister, I must tell you that the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor cannot order candidates — I believe you do not know, although you have already been Minister of Justice, but you have a large office at your disposal that can give you this information — and this is expressly the law that you invoke in the letter you sent. We note that it does not respond, we hope that it will answer tomorrow in Parliament and that on 27th it will be the Minister of Justice who is going to respond to the Commission in Brussels. For us, Prime Minister, the matter is not closed, it is nebulacious and it must be clarified, because the democratic rule of law is at stake. I repeat, the democratic rule of law is at stake. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u126	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u127	Mr President, Madam Member, I have no doubt that tomorrow, as the debate on the presentation of the Portuguese Presidency programme in the European Parliament, there will certainly be some Member who will want to discuss not the programme, but this alleged case of illegality in the appointment of the representative of Portugal in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, as against the facts, there are no arguments, as the honourable Member has said — and well! — I would like to ask you to distribute to all the seats — and in particular to the honourable Member — a copy of the office addressed by the Secretary of the Attorney-General of the Republic, on 1 March 2019, stating that the Supreme Council of the Magistracy adopted its final classification: « José Eduardo Moreira Alves de Oliveira Guerra : 95 points ; Ana Carla Mendes de Almeida : 81 points ». If this isn't an ordered list, then I'd like to know what a ordered list is. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Monica Quintela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u128	The PSD Parliamentary Group continues to use the word. You now have the floor to Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Prime Minister yesterday, announced that vaccination in the homes would be reinforced and also said that the first taking of the vaccine would be administered by the end of this month. All right, if you do it, it's a compliment! But, Prime Minister, we know there are hundreds and hundreds of homes in an illegal and irregular situation. According to the Association of Home Support, Homes and Older Houses, there are about 3,500. Mr. Prime Minister, they are elderly and equal everywhere! They're people who aren't guilty of being in illegal institutions, they're people who deserve protection. The government had already announced from the beginning of the pandemic 10 months ago that it would make a survey and mapping of all these situations to protect all the elderly. Therefore, because of this mapping and this survey that has not been presented and done, it is necessary to ask what is planned for vaccination in the homes of the elderly. Is everyone — when I say 'all' is without exception, i.e. professionals and elderly people — going to be vaccinated or discriminated against? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u130	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u131	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, yes, the elderly will all be vaccinated, regardless of whether they are in homes considered legal or illegal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u133	The defined priority is the elderly people who are in a confined space, because we know that age is a risk factor and that the grouping of people is an aggravated risk, regardless of the status of the institution where they are living. Therefore, all the elderly are covered and priority will arise from the severity of incidence in each of the councils where these institutions are operating. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u134	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u135	Mr President, Prime Minister, the answer does not satisfy us entirely because it has not been able to respond to the work that has not been done by the government, the lifting and mapping of all situations of illegal homes. Therefore, we do not know where they are and the news that came from the public by the government realize that only 788 of the homes are included in the vaccination program, that is, there are about 80 % of institutions that are outside the protection radar. Mr. Prime Minister, it's not just the PSD that says so! I should like to remind you that the Socialist Party has submitted, even following the appeals that the PSD has already made, a draft resolution on the direction of the government, in relation to households, the work it has not done in 10 months. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, before moving on to other questions, the appeal I leave here is the following: don't leave any old people behind! Mr Prime Minister, now there are two other questions that I would like to leave to you and that are related to the social support already discussed here this afternoon. I would like to remind you that since the Supplementary Budget, since July 2020, the Government has committed itself to a set of extraordinary support, in particular to workers and the most unprotected people. The truth is, having come back all these months, that support has not reached people. What's going on? It turns out that the Ombudsman once again had to intervene and we were aware that she sent a letter to the Secretary of State for Social Security at the beginning of January, noting these difficulties. Mr. Prime Minister, it doesn't matter whether it was bureaucracy, whether it was negligence or whether it was lack of communication from the State to the citizen, what matters is whether this money actually goes to people who are desperate for this support. In conclusion, I am raising another issue dealing with rapid intervention brigades for home support. This is a measure which the PSD has already had the opportunity to welcome, because we consider it, in fact, very relevant, but the results have been ineffective in the face of the current situation. Therefore, Prime Minister, the priority of priorities in supporting our elderly, our homes, is that these brigades can function properly. With these outbreaks that we are experiencing, unfortunately daily, I wonder whether the government has planned any action and whether there is any guidance to strengthen these rapid intervention brigades to support the homes of the elderly. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u136	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u137	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have told you, no one will be left behind. Therefore, all Portuguese will be vaccinated and, in the order of priorities, people who are admitted to residence, whatever their status, will be vaccinated already. As is evident, if there are situations that are easy to identify, which are licensed homes, there are others, perhaps more difficult, but I am sure that we will have the collaboration of the autarchs, of the humanitarian associations of firefighters, of primary health care to be able to identify them. So we'll get to everyone and it's all we'll get to, because we have to protect everyone equally. As for the recommendations of the Ombudsman, we always deserve our best attention and that is also the case of the recommendation you have referred to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u138	We moved on to the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, the PPE ( European People's Party ), the European PSD family, previously used the European Parliament to try to destabilize the Government of António Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u140	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u141	And the leader of the PPE even developed a campaign — I stress, a campaign — to call for sanctions against Portugal. There were no sanctions against the PS, no sanctions against the government, no sanctions against Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u142	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u143	We won the maneuver at that time and we're going to win it again this time too! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to speak again about the effort being made to keep schools open, even though their answers were essentially very clear. We also want to make our position clear. It is true that we must always be prepared on the basis of news, especially if we notice the important presence of a new strain of the virus, more contagious and more threatening, to change position and review measures. We do not have a dogmatic position and we are concerned about people, but here we want to say that we clearly support the government to make every effort to keep schools running in presence. And why? Because we feel the duty to speak for those who have no voice! There are children for whom school is the only safe anchor of your life. Let us not only think of families that are homeless, families that have libraries and comfortable rooms for their children at home, who have always had a full table, but also of those who suffer carelessness, violence, and various needs. Let us think of those whose parents have to keep leaving home so that we can continue to have food, electricity and gas, so that we can continue to live. These often have no voice in public space. Some say: "Let's close schools, because a year or two doesn't matter, it recovers later. Do not keep on seeking. ” But in our schools we have many hundreds of thousands of children and adolescents who are at critical ages of their development and it is not always true that what is now lost is recovered later. It's just that it's not just school learning. It is cognitive development, socio-motor development, emotional and social development, which are obviously affected when our children and grandchildren are closed home, because the computer does not replace the educational relationship, does not replace the human relationship and does not replace the social relationship. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This loss in development will cost a lot in the coming years, especially in health, mental health and physical health. Some are making the accounts at the cost that this will have in economic terms. We are making the accounts at the cost that this will have in terms of the health and balance of families. We remember well because the Members of our parliamentary group spoke with hundreds of schools, from the beginning of the pandemic, in the first confinement, of the directors and directors who told us: "We have some students, who are not many, are 10 or 20, who are not able to contact us. They're missing. We had to ask the parish board to look for them. Do not keep on seeking. ” For these, no one talks. But we're talking! We must speak for them, protect them, and we cannot be light! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We support the Government in this effort, even if we are not dogmatic and if possible we have to review the measures if the situation requires it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u144	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u145	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, thank you very much. In fact, times are not for small politics.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u146	So they're not for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u147	That is why it is not worth being neither anxious nor worried about the campaigns that have been set up to try to challenge Portugal as a rule of law.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u149	But out there you're questioning him!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u150	Portugal is indeed a rule of law. In fact, we can even be proud to have at European level the justice system in which the independence of the judiciary and even the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor is best guaranteed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I find it absolutely extraordinary the lack of memory of those who amplify some arguments, trying to hide that we are only part of the enhanced cooperation that created the European Public Prosecutor's Office because the PSD and the CDS were put out of government and came a government that wants Portugal to be monitored, accompanied and subject to the jurisdiction of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. This Government was my former Government, which was approved here in this House of the Republic, in the past legislature. I would also like to say that it was also in the previous legislature that this choice was no longer made by the government freely and was made by the superior councils or the Magistracy or the Public Ministry. We could have changed that order, which was even done at first, but in corrected time! In fact, I would like to know what you would now be saying—and in that case, with reason—if we had not respected the ordination made by the High Council of the Public Prosecutor. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u151	What would you be saying about questioning the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor's Office? Oh, my God! Therefore, let us maintain ourselves with nerves of steel, with a correct, institutional and true relationship with the European Union, which has already appreciated the letter sent by the Minister of Justice, correcting two factually harmless but wrong data contained in a previous letter, giving the matter duly closed. Will it be debate in the European Parliament? Oh, my God! I'm sure it will be! In fact, what would the opposition be doing tomorrow to ruin the beginning of the Portuguese presidency, but to shake this case? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's obvious they'll be there. It's not worth having illusions about that. As far as schools are concerned, Mr President, it is not worth an illusion either. We passed that early phase of this pandemic in which some sought to simulate a sense of great national unity. Quickly, they wanted to return to their political trenches, judging that this will have some advantage in the political environment, without understanding that the dramaticity of this moment and the fact that we are at an absolutely unique moment - and, we wish, irrepetable - make politics today completely different from traditional politics. No Portuguese citizen will vote more A or more B because we closed the restaurant at 13 hours or because we allow the restaurants to run until 15 hours and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u152	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u153	What the Portuguese really want — and really want! — of all of us is that we focus on the one who is, very clearly, the only objective that we have to have, that is to control the pandemic, protect people's health and save lives. Are there various ways to do this? Of course I do. Should there be different ideas for that? Of course! That is why it is important for this House to remain in operation. That is why it is important that there is no suspension of democracy. That's why it's important that there are proposals coming from the Left Block, coming from the CDS-PP, coming from the PCP, coming from the Greens and coming from the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u154	See you! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u155	That they come from all, because there is certainly one thing about which I have no doubt: that, in the spirit of everyone and of each one of these gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only an objective, the good of the country and the good of the Portuguese, although from a different point of view. That is also our point of view and we will not deviate from it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u156	You have the floor, still in the time of the PS, Mr. João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, the State budget for 2021 is in force 19 days ago and has been presented and defended here in the Assembly of the Republic, by the Government and the Socialist Party as a pandemic budget. The budget is the hat of the essential measures that are under way, both in the protection of employment and in the protection of income, and in support of the economy and businesses. In the protection of income, these measures are: the increase in national minimum wage; the extraordinary increase in lower pensions;...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u158	To pay for what's missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u159	... the increase in unemployment benefit; the extension of unemployment benefit for more than six months in 2021; the ban on the cutting of essential services such as light, water and gas; the new social provision, which has been created and directed to all types of workers — on behalf of others, independent or in situations of social disprotection and even management partners — which will reach about 258,000 people. on the employment protection side, we have the Layoff at 100 %, a measure approved by the State budget for 2021, and similarly support for the progressive resumption of activity will also pay 100 % of workers' salaries. These two measures have already covered 130 000 companies, have already paid one million workers and have already caused a budgetary effort of more than EUR 1000 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also have simplified support for micro-enterprises, which pays two national minimum wages for each worker, and support for the reduction of activity, a measure aimed at self-employed workers and management partners, which has already covered 230 000 self-employed and management partners, leading to a budgetary effort of EUR 280 million. In support of businesses and the economy, we have the creation of the Development Bank and the mobilization of more credit lines with State guarantees. More than EUR 6 billion of credit lines, which had already been launched by the government in March, are added, and we also have moratoriums, export credit insurance and, moreover, the funds lost. All these treasury support to companies, whether moratoriums, credit lines, or deep-lost support, are accumulated with employment protection measures. We are talking about measures such as the APOIR programme, fund support for individual entrepreneurs and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which already covered 48 000 micro and small enterprises in a budget effort of EUR 375 million. Mr Prime Minister, these measures were created, as you said, by the State budget for 2021. We do not forget what some have called this set of measures. They called for this set of measures: « Distribute everything to everyone». We don't forget that! But those who accused this set of measures to "distribute everything to all" have forgotten to say, to this day, what measures they have dropped, especially at this time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They have forgotten to assume the reason why they voted against the Budget, saying that it distributed everything to everyone. Here are all the measures that are essential to protect employment, family income and support businesses. I leave you with a question to end the intervention, a question that many entrepreneurs ask: what can one expect in the short and medium term in the Recovery and Resilience Plan with regard to support for investment and financing and capitalisation by companies? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u160	Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u161	Mr President, Mr João Paulo Correia, thank you very much. The Recovery and Resilience Plan is absolutely vital for the recovery of our economy, indeed for the recovery of economies in Europe. The first key step is, I hope, the urgent agenda, as the Government has called for, of ratification of the decision allowing the European Union to increase the ceiling on its own resources and carry out a historic joint debt issue to finance this plan. The second, equally important moment, is this: we hope that it will be possible at the beginning of the Portuguese Presidency to conclude the process of approval in the European Parliament of the regulation establishing this of the Recovery and Resilience Plan. The third moment is as follows: once the whole process of ratification has been completed in the various national parliaments and once the regulation has been adopted in the European Parliament, the European Commission will be able to issue the debt and the States will be able to formalise the delivery of recovery plans. As you know, we were from the first countries to deliver the first project on October 14 or 15. Negotiations with the European Commission have been very positive. Therefore, my conviction is that once all these instruments are in force, we will have good conditions to see our approved programme and to start receiving the necessary funds. However, the State budget contains, among other important measures to deal with the crisis, a measure that allows us to anticipate partially the money we will receive in the future, with the Recovery and Resilience Plan. It is more than EUR 1000 million that are planned in the State budget to allow for the early mobilization of resources to begin implementing the Recovery and Resilience Plan. We therefore hope that the House will approve the ratification of the European Union's own resources decision and that the European Parliament will adopt the regulation so that these resources can be mobilised as well as from now on to support the revival of the Portuguese economy. We must do something to respond to immediate needs, but we must do without losing the strategic vision of the future and without losing sight of the fact that the two fundamental objectives adopted by the European Union as drivers of Europe's recovery and resilience are exactly two of the four options of the strategic priorities of the Portuguese Government, the climate transition and the digital transition. That is where we should concentrate the great investment effort and reform of our recovery plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u162	Even during the intervention time of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u163	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed living very difficult times and Portugal is no exception. Since we live them and Portugal is a rule of law—and it will continue to be—it is good to strengthen all the investments that have been listed today, which I will not repeat, and the fact that Portugal has made a way of controlling this pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government has not saved itself to control the pandemic, increasing the number of professionals and installed capacity. The National Health Service itself has reinvented itself. Therefore, we are very grateful to all health professionals, to all those who, day by day, even without making posts, even without managing their egos, have been able to do the inexhaustible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is difficult and the government has imposed measures which are difficult too, reducing our mobility and imposing rules of confinement, often—I must recognise — more than socially acceptable. But, Prime Minister, I wanted to tell you that everyone's health demands this and here we are all to meet, however difficult it is. Mr. Prime Minister, in order to control, we need to know, so I would like to know how the government has been looking at the follow-up to the epidemiological surveys. Mr. Prime Minister, we heard that you were going to recruit several people to help in these investigations, and I am therefore grateful if you can give us some news. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u164	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u165	Mr President, Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos, yes, the strengthening of screening is a fundamental part because it is the one that allows quickly to identify who are the risk contacts and proceed to the evaluation, as well as it is a fundamental part to try to identify the site of contamination and go to the root of that contamination chain, in order to extend the fight, allowing to restrict as quickly as possible and break the transmission chains. This capacity has been progressively strengthened over these months. We have already had very difficult times, with more than 30 000 inquiries to do — for example, in mid-November — and now, in a much more difficult situation, we have a very large number of investigations to conclude but to be completed within 48 to 72 hours, so that we can respond as quickly as possible to this need. To that end, we have come to count on the mobilization of the military of the Armed Forces and other health professionals and I have no doubt that it is absolutely essential to overcome fears and effectively put to work in this census effort, as the law provides and as the law allows, several public officials who are currently in house confinement or can be dispensed for this function, as teachers...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u166	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u167	... that, for health reasons, they are not carrying out educational activities and are available to develop this work. Here, we cannot have any kind of prejudice and we must even be able to mobilize all resources for this tracking effort, accelerating this capacity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u168	To put questions on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u169	Mr President, Prime Minister, I note how sensible the idea that, at the time we are fighting a pandemic, it is important not to create conflicts and get solutions by agreement. But, Prime Minister, the large private health groups want to make profit on the pandemic. It may be said that this claim is legitimate, but it is up to the government to impose rules that protect everyone. As Mr Prime Minister says, in fact, it was much more the social sector than the private sector would agree to make agreements. As we see from the numbers, after all these months, the private sector, which has more than 11 300 beds, has only accepted, by agreement, to make available to the Country 880 beds and, of these, only 80 for COVID, i.e. less than 8 %. There is no reasonableness in the private health sector! Big hospitals want to do business. Mr. Prime Minister, it is necessary to protect SNS and users. The professionals are exhausted and there are many users who need priority treatments and who are desperate. Therefore, the appeal I leave to you is not to wait for the break-in of the SNS to demand the private. Do it now! Avoid the break-in of the SNS, call the responsibility of the large private health groups, because we are all called, at this moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u171	Mr. Prime Minister, I would also like to talk to you about schools. You know that we agree that schools are fundamental—then in younger years they are fundamental to development—and close them has a very difficult damage. I note that he said that the situation may have to change, according to epidemiological developments. It is true and wisdom requires science to lead these decisions. But I wonder if we can no longer do it for schools, because it is not enough to say that we want to open them. at this time, it is very complicated to manage the life of schools, especially in the cycles of children and young people older than 3. the cycle and secondary education, where more decisions can be made. Mr. Prime Minister, there are immense operational assistants who, with increased cases throughout the country, are in prophylactic isolation, which means that there are schools that are being forced to close because they do not have operational assistants. Can't we, from now on, strengthen schools with staff? I have another question. The Ministry of Education said at the beginning of the school year that it was necessary to prepare schools for the various schemes: face-to-face regime, mixed regime, distance regime. There are so many classes in confinement, there are so many students in confinement and they have no answer at this time. Why is the mixed regime not already being applied in many schools? We know at least one in which you are and in which there is no class in isolation, which is the case of Antonio Arroio. We know other schools, very close, also here in Lisbon — for example, the Camões — where there are 10 classes in isolation. All the young people of these classes who are in isolation and in confinement are without any follow-up. So the question is this: why did it not advance to these solutions, which were prepared immediately at the beginning of the school year? I'm glad you're moving forward with the screenings, which, as you know, are something the Left Block has been defending for a long time. But if the Ministry of Education had prepared various schemes, why not move forward with what was decided at the beginning of the school year, at a time when schools are already having so many difficulties? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u172	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u173	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, first of all for the operational assistants : in the previous legislature, more 4000 operational assistants, technical assistants, specialized technical assistants were hired ; in this Parliament, the reinforcement was already increased to more 8000 ; in September, the contracting process of 1500 began ; in October, as will be recalled, the new portfolio of ratios was published, which provided for the hiring of more 3000, and in the Law of the State Budget for this year, the contract of more 2000, to be added to the 3000 that had begun just the previous month ; and, in addition to the operational assistants, competitions are opened for more than 950 specialized technicians within the framework of the Personal, Social and Community Development Plans. Therefore, this reinforcement of non-teaching school staff has been and will continue to be absolutely essential for schools to function. I have had the opportunity to say what is the concrete situation we have at this time: in all 5400 schools, only 13 are closed by the existence of outbreaks; of 1 million and 140 thousand students, only 39 736 are in non-presentative regime, which does not mean they are sick; and there are no schools in the mixed regime since this type only applies to classes and what has happened is the isolation of cases within the class, having the school responsible for continuing the educational offer for the other students of this class. The answer, therefore, is this: we have not yet used the mixed regime because it has not yet been necessary to use it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u174	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u175	Mr President, Prime Minister, I remember that announcing tenders or vacancies does not mean that there will then be workers occupying these vacancies. We have a huge problem in schools, since we are asking people to work on one month's contracts and to earn the national minimum wage. In fact, I would like to draw your attention to the European study which came out at the end of last year and which says that Portugal is from the countries in which it has the role of social assistance and education, etc. , earn less money and it's more precarious. That is why we lack people in schools, hospitals or homes: we cannot offer people we need every day in the front line the national minimum wage and precarious links. It was really necessary to make a big decision, the decision to say that who is in schools every day, to ensure that they are open, who is available to be at home, to work and to support the older ones, who can be making hospitals and health centres open their doors every day and be hygienic has to have wages and decent careers. And, Mr. Prime Minister, it's not too early to do it, it's late! We really need people in schools. I also wanted to tell you that there are students who have already been confined for more than once. So it is important that mixed regimes are important, and it is important that the government speed up the distribution of computers that it has promised, for example, because we are still only 10% of what has been promised to schools and students, which is so important. In the few minutes I still have, I would like to ask you another question about social support. As Mr. Prime Minister said, this is a long epidemic and we still have long months ahead. Vaccination is progressing, but it's always slower than contagion right now. There are sectors of the economy that have been affected for a long time, 11 months, and that will have more months like this in front, as is the case with tourism, restoration, culture, so many precarious workers. The Government has announced extraordinary support for this month because it knows that to a large extent they have been out of the State budget. But support lasts only a month and workers can only apply for such support in February, which means that they will probably only receive it in March. I ask you, Prime Minister, how is it that tourism workers, restoration, culture, the most precarious and most affected sectors of this crisis, which are already 11 months old without getting their income, will survive in January and February to have support that will only be paid in March and only last one month. How do you survive the rest of the year? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u176	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u177	Mr President, Madam Member, as you know, the State budget for 2021 provides for the creation of an extraordinary social benefit that allows answers to the multiple questions that traditional support does not ensure, even if there has been an extension of coverage, either in unemployment benefit or in social unemployment benefit. What we have now done was to restore a measure that had already been in force at the beginning of this pandemic, precisely when we were in the first confinement, through which, because of activities whose paralysis is imposed by law, this support is ensured regardless of the condition of resources and automatically, unlike the other situations in which the breakdown of activity results not from the imposition of the law but from the dynamics of the pandemic, of the dynamics of social life, of the breakdown of demand in general. As we have always said, although we have never managed to convince the Left Block, there is a fundamental difference between the measures that must be designed for cases where the activity is paralysed because, by public interest, public health, the State imposes the closure of the activity and the measures that are destined for what results from a breakdown of activity by the economic dynamics itself, which must be supported but, of course, under different conditions from those situations that result from the imposition of the State. Moreover, when the State simply imposes the closure of a shop, it does not need to be waiting for it to show you that there was a failure of the billing, because if the shop is closed, there is inevitably a failure of the billing, or if the restaurant is closed, purely and simply, it is clear that it is not necessary to demonstrate the bankruptcy of the invoice because it becomes obvious. Another thing is the situation that we are living in since the beginning of the pandemic where, even if activity is legally possible, there is a general breakdown of demand, either because there is a loss of people's income, or because people are afraid to leave the street, or because people have changed their priorities. See the situation in the clothing sector, which is, in fact, a case on a global scale. There is no chain in the clothing sector that does not say the same anywhere in the world. There was a radical breakdown of sales. Why? Because people have changed their priorities. Today, people's priority is even the fear they have of tomorrow regarding their health, their employment, their family, and therefore this affects the overall situation of economic activity. In any case, it is a situation that we have to deal with differently from the treatment situation that we have to ensure when, regardless of demand and economic and social dynamics, the State imposes, because it is necessary for public health reasons to impose simply the closure of the activity. When a clothing store cannot open because the State does not allow it to open it is different from when, even with open doors, fewer customers or customers buy less or buy cheaper because they need to protect their incomes. They are different situations and therefore have to be treated differently. That is why we have put into effect a measure that we have adopted in the first confinement and that will always be in force for the activities in which the breach results from the force of the law. Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u178	Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u179	Mr President, Prime Minister, the question is not whether it convinces me, it is whether the people who are in need of support have it. To understand what Mr. Prime Minister is saying is that this support, which is about January, to which people can apply in February to be paid in March, can be returned in February, if conditions remain?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u180	Right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u181	All right. We note that the government understands that we were right when we said that the new social benefit left so many people out of it. That's why, that's good. However, it continues to leave people with « heart in hand», month by month, without knowing how they will be entitled to support and not knowing how they will live in January and February, because support will only come in March. Mr Prime Minister, I also note that he said unemployment benefits and social unemployment benefits are extended. However, I remember that this is true only for those who have lost the unemployment allowance or the social unemployment allowance in January this year, because those who have lost in December will not have that extension. Therefore, there are many people who continue this month without a solution, who continue in the greatest crisis and who do not see this extension of unemployment benefit or social unemployment benefit. I believe that there is a need to increase social support for two reasons: the first reason is because I feel that there is a misunderstanding of the expectations of so many people, since there were announcements about millions of support, which then never sees the support to come to their concrete case.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u182	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u183	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u184	And with this I will finish, Mr. President. Secondly, Mr Prime Minister, because these personal tragedies are also a social tragedy and increasing the social crisis can only create much more economic difficulties for our country in the future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u185	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u186	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, let's see: we are not going back to the ages of November and December, trying to convince each other now that we are not convinced at the time. I think one of the things that this crisis has made quite clear was that the degree of precariousness and informality in our economy leaves, at the most critical times, those who develop their activity in regimes that do not correspond to any typical form of work relationship, because it is neither labor, nor paralaborative, nor even commercial, in the development of this activity. Therefore, one of the difficulties that we have all had, from March to now, is to seek a way that is socially just, that respects those who have contributed throughout their lives and that, at the same time, does not fail to protect those who have suddenly been deprived of their incomes. There are very serious cases, as we all know, of people who had the legitimate expectation that, through their activities, they would enjoy a type of income that suddenly failed. See, for example, the culture sector, when at some times the activities were closed, at other times, already open, people were afraid and there was less demand, or activities were reopened but with such imposition of restrictions on operation and lotion that obviously make this income very difficult. Therefore, it has been a very great exercise of imagination of all, I recognize, the effort to find answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u187	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u188	I shall now conclude, Mr President. The fact is that since the beginning of this crisis, social security has already supported more than 2 million and 400 thousand people through the most diverse modalities. That is why the State budget for 2021 has taken a step of the greatest importance in terms of unemployment benefit, placing the minimum of unemployment allowance at the poverty threshold, which is a structural change of the greatest importance,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... changed the rules of social benefit and, above all, created an extraordinary social benefit that seeks to respond to many and many of these situations, which we also created in the past and we have paid more than 21,000 people of the so-called informal workers in whose process of clearance was much more difficult to prove the bankruptcys of invoicing, because there was no invoice. But more than 21,000 people have already been paid, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u189	You really have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u190	Therefore, the effort that has been made is very great and, contrary to what I have said, the new social provision in the State budget responds to these situations. What I was doing was subject them to a condition of appeal and now we do so without subjecting the condition of appeal, because we are now in an extraordinary situation, since it was the State that imposed the closure of the activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u191	Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u192	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to stress a few issues that have already been mentioned by my comrade Jerome de Sousa in the first round. Starting with health issues, I wanted to go back to the issue of vaccination. Mr Prime Minister, the question we are asking today is not whether or not there is any advantage in each country to acquire vaccines or to acquire them all together. The question that arises today is how will Portugal deal with the constraints now being known regarding the conditions under which vaccines have been acquired by the European Union and of which, of course, depends on the fulfilment of the vaccination objectives that have been defined in Portugal. The problem that arises today is not difficult to deal with. If the companies responsible for the supply of vaccines approved by the European Union do not have sufficient production capacity in view of the objectives that have been identified, if these pharmaceuticals refuse to subcontract the production of the vaccine or share the patents so that this production can be adequate in view of the objectives that have been identified, what will Portugal do to deal with this problem? It is that there are other vaccines that have been authorized by the World Health Organization. There are countries in the world that are acquiring vaccines to other companies that are not only those which the European Union has identified as likely to be licensed and used in the European Union. The question is what Portugal will do to overcome this problem and to ensure that we have at our disposal the vaccines that are necessary to ensure the vaccination objectives that were identified, in the face of the difficulties that are being posed by companies that, above all, are pharmaceuticals that have received millions and millions of euros in public support over the years to do this process of research and preparation of vaccines that are being used today. It is therefore to know what Portugal will do to diversify the purchase of vaccines so that the vaccination objectives are not compromised by these limitations arising from the decisions of the European Union. I would also like, Prime Minister, to return to an issue which has been raised here and which, over time, the CFP has underlined as one of its main concerns, which has to do with strengthening the capacity of public health services. The basic solution to the problems that are identified is not compatible with the emergency response that needs to be ensured. The training of public health doctors is not one day at a time, the training of technicians is not one day at a time and therefore these structural solutions are not compatible with the emergency response that we need to overcome the needs that exist. Some of the emergency measures have in fact to be implemented in order to significantly strengthen the response that needs to be given to the capacity of public health teams to intervene, particularly with the hiring of environmental health technicians identified in the Budget as one of the measures to be implemented. I will use an example that was brought to the Assembly of the Republic by the North ARS some time ago, Prime Minister. North ARS identified the need for 54 environmental health technicians. You hired 32 and only 7 will pass to the board. at this time, ARS Alentejo is asking the authorities to provide technical assistance to proceed with telephone contacts. As far as we know, there are already 20 military members involved in this work and other professionals, but ARS Alentejo is asking the municipal chambers to provide technicians. Mr Prime Minister, we know that the urgent measures that need to be taken are not compatible with the delay in the substantive solutions that need to be found for these problems, but contracts must be made not only to respond to emergency problems, particularly with regard to environmental health technicians, but also to ensure an immediate response. We have already put forward other possibilities for solutions, including the mobilization of reformed health professionals who are available to make such contacts. It is that delays in contacts are very significant, in particular, considering the emergency which is placed in relation to the interruption of transmission chains. This is something we want to emphasize because it is really a priority that should be considered, using all resources and, in particular, using the resources that can respond to this emergency situation, incorporating it into the basic solution that needs to be considered. With regard to environmental health technicians, this is unsurpassed evidence. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u193	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u194	Mr President, Mr. João Oliveira, starting with the vaccines: first, the European Union has a contract already signed with six different companies. I repeat, six different companies. No remedy may be produced, sold or marketed in the European Union without being licensed by the European Medicines Agency. This is very important, because we need vaccines, but we need safe vaccines. Furthermore, the European Medicines Agency has made a very important effort to shorten the licensing process without sacrificing rigour. Therefore, all phases of the vaccination licensing process were completed and it was fortunately possible to fulfill some overlaps and not sequentially. That is why it was possible for the European Medicines Agency to have already licensed two vaccines and I hope that it will be on the verge of a third licence by the end of this month. There are others who are themselves at later stages of their development process and who have not yet fully submitted the process so that they can be licensed. Therefore, any vaccine producer of any origin may submit the vaccines to the European Medicines Agency, even if he does not have a contract with the European Commission. Now, what we cannot do is, firstly, break the unity of the European Union bloc in negotiating with pharmaceuticals, because we would certainly not be better served than having played with the other 26 Member States. Secondly, we can never in any case acquire vaccines that are not properly licensed by the European Medicines Agency. I recall that no vaccine-producing company is prevented from submitting its vaccine to the European Medicines Agency. And if one day there is a vaccine licensed by the European Medicines Agency, it will be unacceptable for the European Union not to extend its contracts, in addition to these vaccines, to new vaccines which, however, are emerging. What are we doing? As Mr. Secretary of State for Internationalization has given public news and as Mr. President of the Chamber of Leather Walls has also recently given public news, we have sought to develop joint efforts to join in strengthening the global production capacity of these vaccines. This is because one of the objective problems we have, which the world has, beyond the phase of the discovery of the vaccine, concerns the stage of production of the vaccine. It's an objective problem that exists. Our vaccination plan has been designed taking into account the schedule set out in the contracts signed by the European Union for the provision of the different doses of vaccines that are contracted. Therefore, we are currently fulfilling the vaccination plan taking into account the availability capacity. As you will recall, even in an effort I would say, almost symbolic, I wanted to start the vaccination process by 2020, so the first batch was quite limited, 9750 doses, and we are now having more reinforced lots. This week, as you know, the distribution of the Pfizer vaccine throughout the European Union had a reduction of around 50 % because the company is adapting its factory to increase production capacity, but not only will the company resume normal next week as in the following weeks will compensate for the lowest distribution that took place this week. Are we subject to vicissitudes? We are. As we know, there was a delivery that had a 24-hour delay in Madeira, and 48 hours in the Azores. There may be such vicissitudes and that is why we have always had the caution that, in addition to administering the first doses, we will maintain a spare capacity to, irrespective of any incident that may exist, have the ability to ensure the second take without losing the validity of the first. But this is a dynamic process in which we must continue to work. We must also continue to work to strengthen the tracking effort, and I give you only two numbers: in November, we had 427 people affected by screening, at this time we already have more than 1000 and it will not be for the Government's lack of will that we will not continue to increase the number of people being tracked, whether those mobilized by the Armed Forces, be the civil servants who can be mobilized for the purpose, be the teachers who can be mobilized for the purpose, be the former health professionals in the reform that can be mobilized for the purpose. It will not be because of the government's will that we will not all be mobilised, because we are well aware of the importance of accelerating the tracing process more and more tracers are needed for this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u195	Mr João Oliveira still has time to put a question to which Mr Prime Minister does not have time to answer, but the question remains. You have the floor, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u196	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister will certainly find still room to give an answer. Mr. Prime Minister, we hope that, in relation to the second vaccination, the diversification of the purchase of vaccines is used as an instrument to ensure the vaccination objectives, and this is one of the priority aspects to respond to the effects of the epidemic in Portugal. I would also like to leave a reference to other social issues that cause great concern, including the situation that is created in the homes and the need to find other solutions beyond those that have been considered to effectively overcome the difficulties that are marking the lives of hundreds of institutions from north to south of the country and thousands of elderly people, in particular, who are now one of the most worrying issues and have to do with the lack of workers. I give the example of a home, which will certainly not be a single case and which will be found in many other institutions that respond to the needs of the elderly, where of the 97 workers there are 42 absent from work, being infected or in isolation, in which the rapid brigade only had the conditions to place four workers in the home and the institution managed to recruit 20 workers to temporary workers. This is a dramatic situation, because the lack of workers can depend on the ability to monitor and support the elderly. Now, it is in the light of the fact that the solution of the rapid brigades is not sufficient and a solution must be found, via social security, recruitment, training and placement of these workers, with a view to the future, in the institutions where they are currently needed and where they will continue to be needed in the future. This solution is absolutely urgent, just as it is to find vacancies in the social response to overcome the difficulties that will arise when there are no conditions for the elderly, whether the infected or those who do not have this difficulty, to have the necessary support in conjunction with health services and not only with primary health care, but also with an integrated continuous care network, to the extent that these health responses should be considered in view of their need. In conclusion, Prime Minister, I wanted to leave you a reference to the social responses to the unemployment situation and the reduction of activity...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u197	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u198	I conclude now, Mr President. In fact, it was confirmed by the end of 2020 that the Supplementary Budget did not consider the necessary answers by the end of that year, for example with regard to unemployment subsidies which ended in December and which needed to be extended.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u199	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u200	I conclude now, Mr President. It is necessary to use the solutions that were included in the State budget for 2021 so that those situations which did not receive in the Supplementary Budget, but which now have an answer, can have, either through extraordinary social benefit, either through the payment of wages to 100 %, or through other social support which is included there. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u201	We now turn to the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, so I give the floor to Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u202	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, taking back what I said to you recently, I especially like a political culture in which everyone assumes the responsibilities he has and no longer the responsibilities he has. Mr. Prime Minister said to me recently: "Who is he who leads me; the others give beatings...". Well, it's true, Mr. Prime Minister, but what I think - and I've already told you several times - is that your driving may have been unwise, and I keep that idea. And I say unwise for a simple reason: Mr. Prime Minister, often between being popular and being prudent, choose the first one, and when he chooses the first one he makes mistakes, he makes unwises, and then it's not worth saying, when things... That was what Mr Prime Minister said: "the big decision was to close schools in March". I already told us that here! the second time he was here said: «The increase in deaths was due to heat...». This when it came here at the end of summer. Now, come here in winter and I've heard the government assume that it was because of the cold... you can't say everything and your opposite! There is one thing, Mr. Prime Minister, which seems very important to me: Mr. Prime Minister, when things are going better, says that "the government has done well, I have done well...", this to stop talking about the praise of your parliamentary group. When things are going wrong, there's no longer the government's responsibility, it's everyone's! It can't be, Mr. Prime Minister! There are several misconceptions that have been committed. In the matter of vaccination, I take good note of what you have said to us and I hope that it will be clear that there is no risk, but I would like to draw your attention to extending the first take without the guarantee of stock for the second one there may be a risk here. Therefore, I would like to draw your attention to the document I have given to the government bench where Pfizer itself assumes responsibility for 21 days, regardless of what EMA says. There are other situations in which the ideological issue seems to want to overlap everything else, which makes no sense, Prime Minister. The problem here is driving, it's speed, it's travel organization, it's planning, and a clear demonstration that the problem is planning is, for example, what happened to private people. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister, in addition to this false ideological issue, the Government, in March and April, assumed, more than once, by the voice of Mr.Minister of Health, that the SNS was self-sufficient, when indeed it was not. Then, Prime Minister, only in October did you start looking for some support from the private people, because that is where the situation was actually serious. But the private are never denied this help or that contractualization. I give you a very obvious example: in the autumn and winter plan, presented by the Directorate-General of Health, where are the private ones? They're not! They weren't taken into account and they should have been. Once again, Mr Prime Minister, it was a matter of planning and dialogue. I mean, the Left Block, to be content with himself, in that idea that they're going to attack the private and steal things, etc. , says you need to demand what's in the private. But ask for what? The privates are also full, and Mr. Prime Minister knows that! Are they going to put patients out to put others there? Oh, my God! It doesn't make much sense! What is needed is to contract beds that can still be made available, i.e. to plan for some less urgent interventions to be changed to do others. Now, Prime Minister, it doesn't make much sense to me either, for example, that vaccination doesn't reach private doctors too, because, as the Medical Order says, these doctors are not playing, they're treating patients and they're having an important role. In vaccination there should be no discrimination, in my opinion — indeed, vaccination has still reached only three private persons, so far, when it has already been quite wide in the public. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, even within this idea and this thesis of responsibility, I would like to say to you the following: Mr Prime Minister has already tried here to explain what the criterion was, if it was the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, whether it was the European jury, who chose the other candidate for the European Prosecutor, and it is obvious that there is the suspicion, impossible to circumvent, that the other candidate had recently completed a serious investigation into the government within the internal administration. But as for that, all right, we accept that this is not the case, I don't want to make any judgment of bad intention...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u203	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u204	...but I say to you that there was a lack of sense, Prime Minister, in not following the choice of the European jury...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u205	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u206	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. The problem was not just that, the problem was a document with falsities that was sent, Prime Minister. That was the problem and there is either responsibility or no responsibility! It can't be all irresponsible! As in the management of the SEF file, which was nine months and,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u207	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u208	... in the end, it comes to the conclusion that it is necessary to end the SEF, when everyone realized that the Minister of Internal Administration has lost any kind of authority. These are two forms of sovereignty and a very serious issue of responsibility, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u209	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u210	Mr President, I will take this time to answer first because I did not have the opportunity to do so to Mr João Oliveira. I remember that we have strengthened our agreement with the social and solidarity sector to enable us to strengthen both the number of people working in the homes and the improvement of pay conditions, so as to improve working conditions for all people working in the homes, taking into account the difficult time we have come to live. Mr Telmo Correia, be popular? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u211	Christmas!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u212	Mr. Member, a few months ago, when we had the hunger strike restaurant professionals here demanding time extension, who wanted to be popular? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was the government, which dealt with the responsibility of keeping the establishments closed, or it was the Mrs. Members of the CDS, what have you been asking to extend the schedule? Oh, my God! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] Don't tell me it wasn't you, I know it wasn't you, but the CDS is the CDS-PP, whether you're talking, whether you're the leader of your party, whether you're Mr. João Almeida. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is your party and, therefore, in matters of popularity competition, we understand. Secondly, Mr Deputy, do not come with ghosts about ideology. There's no ideological problem! We have an agreement with the private sector since April. The private sector has, of course, its own logic of operation, which we respect, there is no censorship to do, and has made available what it has been able to make available. Now, what do you want me to tell you? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u213	That the request doesn't make sense!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u214	Only today has the Minister of National Defence managed to mobilize more than 140 beds, plus 10 continuous integrated care beds, which means that only today the 140 beds that were mobilized by the Minister of National Defence are more than those that the private have made available, as a whole, to fight COVID. What do you want me to tell you? Oh, my God! The reality is this! It's not ideology, it's like that! It's normal! There's no complex on our side. Have more availability, come they're all very welcome! Mr President, although you have come back to the subject of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, because on this subject people really have to know the truth. You know that, in the wake of the lie being repeated, repeated and repeated, an idea will be created in people who, some, had an obligation to be well informed and others, whose activity is to disinformation, so that this subject would never be a subject. Firstly, why is Portugal part of the European Public Prosecutor's Office? Because my former Government has decided that Portugal would adhere to this enhanced cooperation. It is an institution which is not mandatory for all Member States of the European Union. There are States of the European Union that are not part of it, only those States that want to be part of it. The Government which you supported was against the European Public Prosecutor's Office, refused to participate in this enhanced cooperation and it was necessary to change the government in order to be able to join. So today the question is only because we adhere to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Secondly, and very important, when it came to the choice of the representative of Portugal in Eurojust, what did the former PSD and CDS government do? It amended the law to say that it was not necessary to intervene by the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office and that it was sufficient for the Attorney-General to indicate that the Government would select from among the names indicated by it. That's right, isn't it? Oh, my God! Well, what did we do? What we have done was to return to the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office what has been of its competence since 2002 or 2003...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u215	What about the letter? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u216	...to be the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office to make the selection.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u217	What about the letter?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u218	in this case, the Public Ministry even did more : selected and ordered. The European Council then appointed a jury, but the European Council is an independent entity, as is the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor. As you know, the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor has 19 elements: five are elected by an absolute majority in this Assembly of the Republic, two — only two! — are appointed by the Government and all others are judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office, many of them elected by their peers. So it's a truly autonomous organ. And it was the one who evaluated, chose and ordered the candidatures. What the government did was what it should do to respect the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor: to present and maintain the choice of the prosecutor who had first been in the evaluation that the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor did — and did well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u219	What about the letter? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u220	The letter...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u221	You have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u222	I will now finish, Mr President. The letter had two facts that were not true. The honourable Member says it was a lie, but the information I have only allows me to say that it was two lapses. As soon as we were aware of these two delays, the Minister of Justice immediately wrote to the European Council giving them their account. The European Council made the evaluation of this situation yesterday in its own body and closed the case. If you are so interested in the case, ask the European Council for documentation on the assessment that has been made.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u223	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u224	Mr President, finally, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration acted as he should: before a very serious charge of a murder committed in police facilities, the police launched an investigation. He did not make a priori judgements,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u225	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u226	... respected the presumption of innocence, protected the institution and, as soon as the investigation discovered gravity, acted immediately, punishing those who had to punish and transmit to the Public Prosecutor what the Public Prosecutor himself had not yet detected in the investigation to which he had conducted. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u227	For the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, in this second round of the debate I would like to begin with an issue which calls us precisely for the Minister of Internal Administration. At the same time as this profound health crisis we are experiencing, we are also going through an electoral process, and when we became aware of the electoral bulletin — a sort of electoral bulletin — one of which is a candidate who presented only 11 signatures and who leads the list of candidates, we felt that perhaps we were faced with a joke of bad taste. But on this Sunday, we found that it actually consisted of the electoral bulletin. And this we can thank Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, who seems to continue in stone and which in the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u229	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u230	... despite failure, failure after failure, not taking any political responsibility, now placing us in the electoral anecdotal. The Minister even knows that we have a lot of sympathy for the saving of resources, but it seems to us that, from what is expected of a democratic rule of law, this is a serious mistake that causes confusion among voters. We are only not going to have a perception of the impact of this issue because these will be considered null and void. In addition to this question, Minister, there are others around this electoral process that have run wildly. For example, I am talking about the possibility of early voting in mobility. We well know that this measure has its goodness — that is not at stake — but it has not been allowed, for example, to sign up by telephone, thus protecting access to many people. It was also not allowed for people who are in prophylactic isolation this week, those who are now ill or those who, for example, have been in isolation yesterday, to vote. In other words, there is a denial of the right to vote to many people in our country, because it was not feared that this process would allow them to be accessible. Moreover, Prime Minister, there are also disabled people who did not have access to the voting tables. Election act after election act, this continues to be a forgotten problem. And we must not forget that, next Sunday, or even in the electoral act that we are going to have this year, this issue should be duly guarded. There is one aspect to which we recognize that the government has done well: to use the powers it had in the state of emergency to correct errors that the central block regime had brought to our electoral system, in particular by allowing the mobility of elderly people in the homes. But there have been a lot of people out there, Minister, and we want to understand why these problems have not been seized up here, as well as what is being done so that on Sunday, as well as in the elections, they do not repeat themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u231	The Government informed the Bureau that it would be Mr. Minister of Internal Administration to answer this question. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I am very pleased to clarify your questions, because they have to do with something essential in such difficult times, in which we are fighting the most complex situation in our lives, this terrible pandemic: that it is possible to ensure the exercise of democratic rights and ensure the functioning of democracy by electing the President of the Republic next Sunday. I would say that the essential thing that has been done is due to the Assembly of the Republic, which, in good time in October, concluded the debate on the initiatives that allowed the adoption of Organic Laws Nos 3 / 2020 and 4 / 2020, which established the extension of the early voting system in mobility, allowing that in response to the pandemic that this right of vote could not only be exercised in district capitals, as happened in the European elections or in the 2019 legislative elections, but also in the 308 councils throughout the national territory. It was also the Assembly of the Republic that, on 23 October — i.e. in good time! — approved, within the framework of its own powers, the very exceptional system of voting in mobility by citizens who are in confinement or prophylactic isolation by the determination of the health authorities. in this case, it is specifically in Law No 3/ 2020 that it is said that they can exercise the right to vote in this scheme — which has extended the exercise of the right to vote, has not restricted it — those who have a determination of isolation until the tenth day before the vote. That is what the Assembly of the Republic allowed, because it would not be possible for the books to be opened until the day of the elections, with a telephone census. I'm sorry, Mrs. Member, but the Assembly didn't want it, and well! Finally, with regard to the ballot, there is not much I can do, but it does not have any responsibility in this matter either. The electoral administration has fulfilled what it received from the Constitutional Court, to whom it is responsible to draw and refer for registration in the ballot, in time to be printed, the names of the candidates who placed the draw. We will certainly improve with this experience, broaden participation and strengthen democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u233	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u234	Mr President, Mr Minister, in fact, this bulletin is for history as the most unusual, at least, to be nice. Mr. Prime Minister, there is another issue that we cannot stop putting to him and that has to do with the social asymmetries that persist, including with regard to the option that has been made to leave schools open. When we talk about poverty, or even energy poverty, it unfortunately does not stick to our homes. Recently, images of children were running in the country who were studying, in school, covered with blankets, precisely because of the cold that made them feel. Mr. Prime Minister, because of the health context in which we live, the option for these families and for these children cannot be to leave the window open to ventilate, so that there is no infection of COVID-19 and, alternatively, they can catch a flu or even a pneumonia. Mr Prime Minister, what we think is fundamental to realise — even because the pedagogical contexts do not have the same learning capacity if there is no thermal comfort in the classrooms — is whether it is not thought that there is a greater adequacy of the measures, not only because of age groups, as we have already heard, but also because of the conditions and context of the school park. It seems absolutely essential that this matter should be reconsidered so that children are not subject to this issue. As I said, schools are not the only problem with energy poverty either.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u235	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u236	I conclude now, Mr President. We have 2 million people living in our country in energy poverty, which are now confined, and we need to see which way Mr. Prime Minister is going to point out that the so-called 'European bazauca' corrects the structural problems that persist, be those of the Portuguese people who continue to live in poverty, those of the people who are homeless or even those of those who live in municipal neighborhoods, such as the New Portugal neighborhood, which Mr. Prime Minister knows so much, and who do not even have energy at home to warm up.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u237	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u238	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I often say that there is a fundamental rule of law that is even above the Constitution, which is the rule of common sense. This rule recommends that when we look at a standard, an indication or an orientation to look with good sense. In fact, there was an orientation given in July by the Directorate-General for Health, in the sense that, for the safety of children and teachers, it was necessary to keep the classrooms aired, in particular recommending opening windows. Today, there is already a new orientation, explaining that, whenever climate conditions recommend closing windows, airing should be done differently, taking advantage of, for example, times of interval. I believe that it is reasonably understandable, firstly, that it is essential to keep the rooms as dry as possible; and secondly, that the way to sand in July should tend to be different from the way to sand in December. Okay, I think this is it! In each circumstance, people will know the best way to proceed with the airing. That is how we also do in our homes, surely, and that is how we should do in all places. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u239	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u240	Mr President, Prime Minister, it seems to me that the answer to the question I put to you in the first round was not so simple because Article 278. the State Budget refers to family doctors and paragraph 4, which Mr. Prime Minister referred to, expressly and only to physicians specialists in general and family medicine. But my question was about hospital doctors and, therefore, the reading we make of the aforementioned article of the State budget, this has nothing to do with the question I have asked you, so I insist on the same question: whether or not the Government is opening to pass the examination by the internal doctors this year at the end of their specialty?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u241	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Minister of Health. With my greetings, Mrs. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the timetable for conducting examinations is closely linked to the contract schedule, and the contract schedule for the year 2021 was set by this House. Therefore, we will seek to comply with it, ensuring, scrupulously, the best use of the medical work force that is being trained each year, for its collection for the National Health Service and, in particular, for the allocation of doctors of hospital specialty and general medicine specialty to Portuguese. It is a difficult balance to guarantee the time to study and use this capacity, but at the moment the timetables are defined.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u243	Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the Greens, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u244	Mr President, Minister, I continue to consider that this article does not concern the doctors who were mentioned in my question. Once a long time, I could get you a copy of the article, but the Minister knows you too, of course. Mr. Prime Minister said yesterday that the civil requirement in the health sector will be used if and when necessary, but that the Government favours solutions in agreement, and even recalled, well, that also in this matter, the state of emergency is neither necessary, since this faculty is provided for in the Basics of Civil Protection Act. From our point of view, this civil requirement has not yet occurred, because so far there has been agreement with private health institutions. And what we think is that these agreements have been insufficient to respond to what is fundamental. However, it seems to us that it would be appropriate for the Portuguese to have knowledge of an important element in these agreements, because it would be absolutely immoral that, at a time when the Portuguese generality is losing income, these agreements would allow an accumulation of profits to the private health sector. In fact, we believe it would be absolutely imperative to ensure that the cost to the State under these agreements does not run away from the fair price. And the fair price, from the perspective of the Greens, cannot include profits for the private sector of the health sector. We therefore believe it would be important for the Prime Minister to take a decision on the terms of these agreements, in particular with regard to State charges, in particular whether or not they go beyond the fair price or if they also intend to contribute to the weighting of health benefits. Mr. Prime Minister, The Greens, at their last meeting with the Government, expressed a very serious concern, which had to do with energy costs for people confined to their homes and which, in the face of the rigor of this winter, will exponentially raise the bill of light and gas. Mr. Prime Minister has been available to analyze the issue, so we would like to know what this hypothesis is on, which, in our view, is very important for the protection of the elderly and children from cold and disease, but also for not further overloading the National Health Service. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, and since life is not only COVID-19, I will address an issue outside that scope, which has to do with the location of the new airport in Lisbon. Mr Prime Minister, this House has approved a proposal from the Greens at the State budget so that the Government will promote a strategic environmental assessment, with a view to measuring the various options for the location of airport responses. Now, considering that the Government has made commitments with Vinci for the construction of a new airport in Montijo, in view of the new legal framework, I would like to ask you what efforts have been made by the Government to prepare this strategic environmental assessment and whether at least the Government has already formally notified Vinci of the new legal framework out of the State budget for 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u245	The Bureau was informed that the Government would divide its response into two parts: firstly, Mr. Minister of Health will intervene and then Mr. Prime Minister. To answer, you have the floor to Mrs. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the article is in fact entitled « hiring family doctors », but the question is that, when it comes to hiring family doctors, the article also makes it dependent on the execution of periods of examination. Therefore, it is to this extent that I say that we are indexed to a certain calendar that, we understand, is the one that best balances two interests, which are, in this case, the interests in the presence: on the one hand, the National Health Service has, as soon as possible, specialists of General and Family Medicine for the allocation of family doctors and, on the other hand, to ensure that people also have the right to prepare time for their examinations. Last year, we made an adaptation to this schedule, and you know, in this House, how many times we were asked why the delay occurred in the placement of doctors of General Medicine and Family. On the subject of the conventions and their price, I must say that the price has been published since March, when we started to prepare these issues. This is a price that is measured according to the cost clearances of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u247	Now you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u248	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, at the last meeting we had, The Greens had the opportunity to make a suggestion that, in the light of the cold wave and the confinement period of people at home, which would naturally lead to greater domestic energy consumption, we would present a support measure. We constructed this measure, taking into account, on the one hand, the reference of the previous confinement period of March / April, in which there was an increase in consumption of around 10 %, and, on the other hand, the reference of an increase of 10 %, taking into account the recent cold wave. For this reason, we have established 10 % turnover support in two different circumstances: first, for these fifteen days of confinement, for all families who are at consumption levels equal to or less than 6, 9 KWA, and then permanent support, also 10 %, for the 800 families covered by the social tariff, and which will be in force for each day of confinement, in general, in order to support these families permanently and to combat energy poverty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u249	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u250	Mr President, Prime Minister, in the last 14 days, there have been 10 days when the official number of new infected people has been around 10 000. We know that the pandemic is exponential, so this stability in the number of new infections probably means that there are a set of infections that we are not able to diagnose, perhaps because we reach the maximum limit of tests. If so, there are hundreds or thousands of people who are not being diagnosed every day and who contribute to the uncontrolled pandemic. And when the pandemic is out of control, the only solution is to confine. Overall, it should be worth a great deal of money for people, for the economy and for the state, who, in 2020, between revenue losses and expenditure increases, must have spent something like EUR 7 billion. And in this confinement of 2021, probably the expenses will not be very different. In view of the need to re-control the pandemic and minimize these containment costs, will it not be time to adapt the strategy, so that it includes a much more massive and much more proactive testing plan? at a time when Portugal is already the worst country in terms of the number of infections per million inhabitants, the second worst in number of deaths per million inhabitants, will it not be time to adapt the strategy? It's just that if we don't do it, I don't think it's the Portuguese's fault. One last question I do not resist, Prime Minister. Since you were so pleased with the availability of the City of Football to welcome patients, I think I can give you a joy: the City of Football has 44 rooms, Mr. Prime Minister, and I can inform you — the Minister of Health knows of this — that, in Miranda do Corvo, there is a new hospital that has 54 rooms, to debut, which is only waiting for the ARS (Regional Health Administration)! It's even better than the City of Football! Just open this hospital, ready to debut, all equipped, that it can also contribute to the effort of fighting the COVID-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u251	The Government has reported that it will be the Minister of Health who responds. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u252	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the time is too serious for us to lose on issues that do not have any real correspondence. Several times I was questioned about Miranda do Corvo's hospital. But where's the hospital so we can hire him? What we have are beds, what we have is space. The National Health Service already has this hospital for about eighty continuous integrated care beds, but there is no hospital where only beds and space are available. That's not a hospital! We're not fooling the Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Are there nurses to send in there? Oh, my God! Are there doctors to send in? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u253	And there are doctors in the City of Soccer? What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u254	There's no, there's no! There was, and that would be what we would do now, because the times are too serious, as I have already said. So we are very concerned about the numbers we have now, with the deaths, with the number of new cases, but I want to tell you that we have also managed to keep testing pace and even increase it. And this has been done thanks to very significant cooperation between various sectors. So it is proven proof that there is collaboration capacity and there are means, we will all be here to use this collaboration capacity. The National Health Service carried out, together with other operators, a million tests in November and a million tests in December, and carried out, on average, until now, in these days of January, 54,000 tests. We continue to increase our testing capacity every day, using rapid antigen tests, and we are now analyzing the possibility of resorting to rapid saliva tests. So it's not due to lack of means, it's not due to lack of effort, it's not due to lack of skills and we've improved... it's because we're dealing with a disease that every day has the ability to transform and we don't know it completely. from there we will continue to study what is associated with the English variant, whose effective challenges are still far from fully known and we will continue to bet on what is the medium-term solution, which will be vaccination. from there, too, we have managed to vaccinate the maximum number of people we could vaccinate so far, using what is a reservation strategy in part of the vaccines and we have considered it to be worthwhile, trusting companies, that you so often defend, and believe that they will fulfill the contracts we have concluded and that they will ensure that next week we will continue to have doses that will allow us to cover what will be the bet in a maximization of the rate of vaccination in residential structures for the elderly, so that we can protect the Portuguese as soon as possible. This is a moment of union, this is a moment when the Portuguese outside are waiting for us. The next few days will be very hard! Please help us all! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u255	We are thus at the end of this debate. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government for their presence and answers to the questions raised by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Secretary Nelson Peralta is now going to give the plenary a lot of information. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to announce that you were present at this plenary session, via videoconferencing, Mrs Marta Freitas of the Socialist Party, and Mr Sérgio Marques of the PSD, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira. They were also present at this session, also through videoconferencing, for other reasons. Mr Pedro Coimbra and Mr Fernando Anastácio of the PS, and Mr José Silvano of the PSD. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-19.u257	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will have a plenary meeting at 3 p.m. with an agenda covering eight points. The first point is the debate of draft resolution No 781 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the simplification of communication between the different educational actors and between the different levels of education. of the second point is the discussion of the Bill No. 591 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Introduction of mechanisms to control the electronic distribution of administrative and fiscal jurisdiction proceedings by amending the Code of Procedure in Administrative Tribunals, approved by Law No 15 / 2002 of 22 February 2002 and the thirty-third amendment to the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure, approved by Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 26 October, 553 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Introduction of mechanisms to control the electronic distribution of judicial proceedings, making the tenth amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June, and 641 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Consecrates transparency and scrutiny mechanisms in the distribution of judicial proceedings, amending the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June. In the third point, we will proceed with discussion of the Bills Nos 551 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Creates the compensation scheme for displaced teachers, 569 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Creates the relocation support to assign to teachers, 624 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Establish compensation mechanisms for teachers displaced from the residence in the performance of their professional exercise, 631 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Measures to combat the shortage of teachers, educators and specialists in public school are being introduced. The fourth point is the assessment of Resolution Projects Nos. 837 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Defend TAP, its workers and national sovereignty and 575 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government prepare an audit of TAP's private management. of the fifth point is the discussion of the Bill Nos 584 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Determines the identification of all fees charged to taxpayers and the elimination of unfair and unjustified rates and 626 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Transparency mechanisms are established in respect of rates charged at the state level and local authorities and ensures the independent technical assessment of counterparties associated with the collection of each of the rates existing at the state level. The sixth point consists of the assessment of Bill No. 395 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the incompatibility of the term of office of Member to the Assembly of the Republic with the exercise of positions in social bodies of entities involved in professional sporting competitions (14 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March. At the seventh point, we will proceed to the discussion of Bill Nos 530 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Creation of seal for identification of packages containing olive oil originating in traditional olives and 616 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Determines a minimum distance between the extreme of superintensive permanent agricultural crops and housing nuclei and Resolution Projects Nos 835 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Calls on the Government to ensure that superintensive permanent agricultural crops are not eligible for public support and 196 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government strengthen consumer rights by including on the olive oil labels of the agricultural system: traditional, intensive or superintensive. At the eighth point, we will certainly be voting on the Rules of Procedure at a later date. See you tomorrow, good afternoon and good night to all. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 36 minutes.]]
