ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] We will start our plenary meeting, which has as its first item elections for several bodies: the Constitutional Court, the Superior Council of National Defence, the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, the Council of Monitoring the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, the Board of Supervisors of the Integrated Criminal Information System, the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents, the Council of Opinion on Radio and Television of Portugal, S.A. and the National Mechanism for Monitoring the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. These elections will take place throughout the whole session and will be closed at the end of the plenary, which is expected to be long. First of all, I ask Secretary Sofia Araújo to announce the initiatives that have entered the Bureau. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all those present. They entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Law Projects No. 710 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 712 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 713 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 714 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 715 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 716 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 717 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 718 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 719 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 720 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 721 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 722 / XIV / 2. a ( PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, and PEV ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 723 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission. Resolution No 20 / XIV / 2 were also admitted. a ( GOV ), which drops to 2. the Commission and the Proposal for a Law. o 76 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ). They also entered, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects Nos. 1026 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1027 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 1028 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1029 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1030 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1031 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 1032 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1033 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1034 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1035 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 9. the Commission, 1036 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1037 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 8. Commission, 1038 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1039 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1040 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1041 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1042 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 1043 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1044 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1045 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1046 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR), 1047 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1048 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1049 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1050 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 1051 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1052 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1053 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 1054 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 1055 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 1056 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 1057 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 1058 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 1059 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 1060 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 9. the Commission, 1061 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1062 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR), 1063 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1064 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1065 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 1066 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1067 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1068 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1070 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary Sofia Araújo, for the extensive work. We are going to enter the second item on the agenda, since the first one has to do with the current votes. This second item on the agenda consists of the debate on the request for authorisation requested by the President of the Republic for the renewal of the state of emergency for 15 days from 17 to 31 March 2021, enabling the necessary measures to be taken to contain the spread of the disease COVID-19. However, obviously the galleries can be opened, although only to the few who have the possibility to enter there. To begin the debate, you have the floor by the PS, Mrs Cláudia Santos. Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Next Thursday will have been one year since we approved the first state of emergency on 18 March 2020. I remember the feeling of disbelief and distress that this afternoon now seems distant. The state of emergency was a figure that was studied in the textbooks of Constitutional Law but which, in a consolidated democracy and apparently so far from any war scenario, seemed to be arranged in a shelf of history. Twelve months have passed and 12 emergency states have been approved, between declarations and renewals, and there are those who think that the figure has been trivialized. Among those who think so, perhaps we can distinguish two different perspectives, both supported by powerful but not entirely convincing arguments. in the first group are those who think that there was an excessive restriction of fundamental rights and that certain freedoms should not have been shortened so much. But we do not know how many more lives would have been lost if we had kept ourselves freer and, as we do not know for sure, what prevailed was prudence. This argument, that of prudence, is not dismissing when the lives of others are in balance. Every life has an unbearable weight when it falls. Another view is that of those who believe that the same fundamental rights should be restricted but with a different legal framework. A sort of hat-law, it was advanced, allowing greater flexibility in the response with less invocation of the state of emergency. But is that what we should be concerned about, the trivialization of the state of emergency? I don't think so. What we should be concerned about is the trivialization of the restriction of fundamental rights, a greater facilitation associated with this restriction. It is possible that a law that sets out the limited restriction of certain rights may be useful under the approach of efficiency in the response to pandemics, but if the State wants to impose on us a compulsory collection, in its classical formulation or in softer declines, in a context of public calamity, when it does so through a procedure loaded with symbolism, which requires the intervention of the President of the Republic, Parliament and the Government. What we cannot trivialize is the suspension of fundamental rights, as, in fact, it does not allow, and well, Article 19. that of our Constitution. A year ago we discovered fear. And the fear associated with epidemics is fertile ground for demagogy and totalitarianism. It facilitates the ban on the entry of foreigners, immigrants; promotes the stigmatization of the patient as someone who has been infected because of him. over the centuries, the epidemics were interpreted as a purifying punishment of corrupted societies. So we know today that we need to avoid the last tragedy, that of our collective transmutation in people with sticks or fork, such as those people who stoned the ambulances in which 28 people with VOCID-19 arrived at La Línea de La Concepción to be relocated to a residence offered by the government of Andalusia. Here so close and yet so far from any sense of humanity. We are very aware of everything that is lost when freedom is restricted. We know of the hugs that have not been given; we know of the children who have stopped playing at school and learning in a white wall room that is equal for all; we know of the money to be scarce and the anxiety of the bills to be paid; we know of our oldest ones who have been left alone; we know of the disheartening of our empty squares with steps and laughter. But we are also very aware of the effort and courage of our health professionals, the creativity and commitment of our teachers, the resilience and bravery of those who guarantee us that we have food in supermarkets, safety, water and electricity, orders that come home, streets clean, transport and essential services. People have made sacrifices, enormous sacrifices, in many cases, but these sacrifices have resulted. The number of active cases of COVID-19 was down 30 consecutive days ago, the number of deaths was the lowest of this October 25, and vaccination is ongoing. The sacrifices made enable us to hope and perhaps the only truly unbearable suffering is that which is without hope. I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that it has been a year and my last words are for those to whom the epidemic has led people to whom they want well. We all have dreams and it can happen that many of these dreams get lost with us, when we leave, unless those who are left make them theirs as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u5	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u6	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Besides, each of us brings with it much more than dreams. Some bring wind and perfect love, others carry clouds and frenzies, some have left pencil drawings. These drawings and these frenzies are our legacy. We know we'll honor him. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u7	Mr Fernando Negrão, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Ms Minister and Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: This is 13. when we vote in this House an emergency state. It's 13th. since the Social Democratic Party, responsibly, approves the state of emergency, always giving the government conditions to carry out its work. And the continuation of the PSD in this position has a reason to mean that from one year to another, we will live in an exceptional, very exceptional situation, which requires, above all, good sense, focus and sense of state in the defense of the lives of the Portuguese through the unbridled fight against the SARS-CoV-2 virus. For one year, we gave green light to the government and allowed it to take the measures which, at each time, it considered and considered correct for the better management of the pandemic. For a year, as far as the virus is concerned, we were not political opponents, although not forgetting that we have often been hidden from the strategy — if there was any strategy! — and that in so many other times we disagree in the form, time and content of so many measures. But we have never made the work of those who have a duty to govern and make decisions, not even to be irresponsible, refraining from voting. We always voted in favour of the state of emergency, 13 times. If that hadn't been the case, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all imagine the repetition for many months of what happened in January of this year: the worst in the world. We believed that, in absolutely exceptional circumstances and with extreme demands, good sense would have to prevail, ideology should not have space and decision should always be supported in scientific evidence, with the advantage of being able to enjoy the knowledge of national and international experts, since this is a global pandemic. But we have been misled, because good sense has not always prevailed, ideology has not always been absent and decisions have not always followed the advice of specialists. Too many times it happened exactly the opposite. Although we have been responsible for the possibility of the government being able to act, we have not been recognized the right to be able to contribute in a qualified way, or even granted the right to be heard, to give us the reasons we ask, to respond to what we ask, to take account of ourselves when requested. It has been such an unbalanced relationship that the PSD could simply break up on its own. He would not lack any arguments for it, but he did not. And he didn't do it for one reason: the Portuguese. We have not done this because we must honor the colossal sacrifice that millions of people have done in the last year, with excessive consequences, to lead their lives in a context of highly restricted freedom; because we must not be able to knock the door into the face of whom we have been inadvertently exproprived from their source of income and prevented from ruling their home or business in the last year, with excessive consequences, in order to carry their lives in a context of highly restricted liberty; because we must not be able to knock the door into the face of whom we have been inadvertently expropriated from their source of income and prevented from ruling their home or their business, unable to fulfil their obligations and responsibilities; because we can not fail to defend all those who need the help of the State in order to find their way; because we need to ensure that the announced support comes out of the role and that they arrive at the Portuguese pocket of their pockets and that they are thinking about tomorrow, in the economic and social recovery of a people who today is not today well and who, and who, and that, unfortunately, and that it is to comply, it is very rightly predicts, it is very rightly, it is very strongly, it is very, it is expected, it is to be made, it is to be made; it is to be made; it is to be made; it is very wise to be made; it should be made; it is very wise; it should be possible to be possible to be possible to be possible to be made; it is to be possible to be made to be made; it is to be made; it is to be made; it is to be made; to be possible to be made; to be made; to be made; to be made; it is to be made; to be made; it is to be made; to be made to be as possible, to be as possible, to be as possible, to be made; it is to be as it is to be as possible, to be as possible, to be as possible, to be made; to be as possible, to be made; to be as possible, to be made, to be made, to be made, to be as possible, to be made; and to be as possible, to be made; to be made; to be made, to be made, to be made; to be made, to be made, to be made; and to be Let us think of the restoration, hotel, tourism, artistic and recreational activities, which have been closed for a year. It is expected that they will be the last to open them. The State cannot remain indifferent to these discrepancies. We return to the first confinement, with a plan announced in three phases and which ended with the economy already of trails and with the guarantee that the country would not endure a new confinement. And maybe it didn't even have to be confined again, or confined for so long, if you had acted sooner and didn't keep up with the damage. We know that the government is reacting and not preventing, but here we need to break the paradigm and there are scripts to do so. The experts anticipate, sometimes without account, what would happen and pointed out the best way forward. He then called the government « lack of information on the English variant », but she was already here before Christmas and the government knew it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u9	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u10	I'm done now, Mr. President. Now, in the days of a new defination, the path is clear. There is no other one but to test much, track in good time, isolate transmission chains and, more importantly, vaccinate the largest number of people. Portugal now has the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, to make its voice heard. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u11	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue with the speeches, I should like to inform you that there are 186 Mrs and Mrs. Members registered for quorum, and we are therefore in a position to vote. You have the floor to speak to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Just one year ago, the World Health Organization ( WHO ) declared COVID-19 a pandemic on a global scale. Since then, more than 2 million and 500 thousand people have lost their lives. In our country there are 16 635 deaths that we have to mourn. A year later, the first word has to be for all those who have lost family and friends and for the country, who fought, in a very difficult way, against this pandemic. We knew, as we now know, that it would not be easy to fight the pandemic, an unknown enemy who challenged us in the forms of organization, in the social responses and in the responses to the economy. And now we know what we already had as sure, that the National Health Service (SNS) is one of the fundamental pillars of our life in society. How would we be if we didn't have it every day, every hour, fighting so that no one would lack the necessary health care? throughout this year, we have been learning how the virus moves and how we can defend ourselves from it. In fact, the vaccine, reached in record time, allows us now also to start seeing a light at the bottom of the tunnel. We learned throughout this year that there are three fundamental verbs to deal with the virus: testing, tracking and vaccinating. But there's a verb before these three: protecting. Protecting all and all from the virus is the best way to ensure that it does not spread and that there will be no new strain by turning around any corner in the world. From this point of view, then, let us go to what we have in front of us, at the moment when the country yearns for a plan of defination. That, I believe, is the first of the relevant political notes at this time. We discuss the renewal of the state of emergency, which, as we realize, will not be the last and we know the weight that this choice has in relation to our constitutional framework. It is the only one who can limit fundamental rights and therefore the Assembly of the Republic cannot be removed from this process, having a decisive role in its definition. But when we discuss the state of emergency, for what it will serve and how it will be applied, we need to know what the government should have already told us, us and the country. What will be the defination plan? What do they want to apply the state of emergency we're discussing? What will you do with the confidence you ask Parliament today? These are the doubts that the country has and, unfortunately, the House of Democracy also has, and so we are making a decision that is not complete, it is not complete, because, in fact, it is not fully informed or fully transparent. from the Left Block, we told the Government and Mr. President of the Republic what was essential: testing, testing, testing. In other words, ensure that we do not do what we have done in the last few weeks, in which, in view of the reduction in the number of cases, we reduce our test force. We cannot constantly run after the virus, we must run ahead of it to ensure that it does not spread, and this is done with mass tests, in schools, in all schools, but not only in schools. Since January the government has promised mass tests and we will arrive at the end of March to fulfill this promise. I believe that no one understands how this urgency still continues in the drawer and, running well, only at the end of March will it be implemented. The second obligation is to track down. We've seen, at the end of the first wave, when we started to de-defining, how quickly if we lose the trace of the virus if we don't do the necessary test and tracking. On this, there are still many of the weaknesses we know. There is a lack of media reinforcement, lack of public health, lack of capacity to involve several agents, and it was not due to lack of permission from the states of emergency which the Government did not. I think we have to ask if it wasn't for lack of will. Now, we cannot fail to trace, which is one more of the country's demands to the government. Finally, vaccinate. To ensure that the vaccine reaches all and everyone, to ensure that it is not a patent of any kind, a profit of any multinational, but that all national and international production capacity must be mobilized to respond to people. We'll all be safe when we've all been vaccinated. We know that as the new strains appear. For this reason, for the Left Block — I repeat here what we have already said publicly to the Government and Mr President of the Republic — there is a need for caution and it must be done by giving priority to those who have suffered most in our society, children. Therefore, open schools, as far as day care is concerned, kindergartens, but also as much as 1. the cycle is fundamental requirements to ensure that we do not waste more time, in the future that is now required. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u13	I have the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To take measures to prevent the spread of the virus, to provide timely adequate support to those who need it, to strengthen the response of the SNS and public services and to define the conditions of health safety for the operation of each area or sector of activity is what is required at the time we cross. This is the backbone of the alternative to confinement, either as a solution for defining, or as a prevention of new confinements. It is wrong to set strictly epidemiological criteria to decide whether to open and close economic activities, commercial establishments or public services according to the number of infected or hospitalized. It is absurd to make the public debate to see if schools, hairdressers or restaurants open on 15 without discussing the conditions in which their operation is resumed, to prevent them from closing again within two months. It is useless to tell a barber, a merchant or a theatre company that its opening or closing doors is dependent on criteria that do not control and that can now open doors, but that if we reach 70 or 130 infections per 100,000 inhabitants will have to close again. What is needed is to be told to each of these professionals or sectors of activity what measures they have to take to resume their functioning in conditions of health safety and to give them the support they need to be able to implement them. It must be said that measures will be taken to reopen schools, if the number of students per class is to be reduced, if the hours of operation of schools are to be extended and more teachers, assistants and technicians hired to work more classes, if there is to be investment in the expansion and improvement of school spaces, if specific vaccination measures are to be taken, hygiene of school spaces and strengthening of school transport. The same must be done in all other areas and sectors of activity, clearly communicating the conditions to be observed for the resumption of operation, updating or supplementing rules that have been defined throughout 2020. In the area of prevention and combating the epidemic, vaccination remains the most solid solution we have to resolve the problem in the future. It must move forward and the objectives set out in the vaccination plan must be met. The Assembly of the Republic will discuss and vote on the proposal of the CFP for the diversification of the purchase of vaccines, already scheduled for discussion in plenary, so that the problem of lack of vaccines can also be solved, either with the acquisition of vaccines that already exist and are available, or considering the possibilities of suspension or cancellation of patents to increase production. In addition to vaccination, the strengthening of public health teams is also a priority, so that there is an increase in screening and testing, with criteria, and in order to ensure the ability to identify and interrupt transmission chains. This is necessary for defining to be dealt with safely, avoiding new situations of uncontrolled infections and new confinements. Strengthening the SNS to recover late care and respond to other diseases, to strengthen public services to give adequate and necessary response to the conditions of resumption of economic, cultural or sporting activities and to value workers for the role they play in this collective effort to normalize life in society are other elements that make up the set of essential measures that should be considered to free us from confinement at once. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not possible to sustain confinement for longer, much less indefinitely or even as a long-term solution. The responsibility must be to create conditions for this type of restrictive measures to be definitely behind and to define the appropriate measures to combat the epidemic and solve the serious economic and social problems created by confinement. The negative impacts of confinement on children, the elderly, families, people with disabilities, on the mental and physical health of Portuguese are more than evident. The accumulation of economic and social costs of confinement is becoming unsustainable, considering the path of poverty, unemployment and social exclusion, alongside the risk of failures of thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. It adds to this the concern, which cannot be hidden, with the growing feeling of rejection of restrictive measures, which is now the refusal of confinement, but, further on, may be the refusal of other measures, even less restrictive. Because confinement is an exception and cannot be a solution, because it is necessary to deal with the serious national problems throughout its scope, we insist that the alternative that exists must be realized so that confinement is definitely furnished in our national life. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u15	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us debate and vote today on the 13th. the state of emergency decree. We do so at a time when, after Portugal has been recordist in number of contagios and in number of deaths per million inhabitants, the situation is frankly more positive. But if it is more positive today, there should be no doubt that this is due to the application of general confinement measures, which the Government, after much hesitation and lack of preparation, has just had to adopt. If Portugal was in the dramatic situation that we lived in January and February it was because we underestimated the third wave. He lacked information and rigour during the Christmas period and he hesitated, very much, in the adoption of measures. Now, the essential thing is, precisely, not to repeat these mistakes, not to allow, by incompetence, if we repeat again the disaster we live in. If the state of emergency was the right decision, and only through negationism or demagogy can you defend your unnecessity, it is very important not to repeat errors, not repeat the mistakes that were made in the Passover during the Christmas period and at the beginning of the year, not to repeat the relaxation, not to continue to act by façade and on the basis of the sudden. On the contrary, the Government should be able to plan in such a way that the Portuguese understand the phases of this planning and what will happen at any time. This discussion and its model are already a bad example. In fact, at the end of several days when the issue has been defining, we are debating here without the government presenting or saying what it is going to do. Social communication is leaving one tip here and another there, trying to guess, or speculate, but what is true is that we do not know this plan. We have the idea that the government will do so once again on the knee, and in this case we even have the idea that even in Bethlehem we will know exactly what the plan of the government is.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u17	That's a pipe!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u18	The families and the country needed a structured and organized plan, they needed predictability. The Portuguese have already shown that they are generally met, provided they understand the reason and objective of the measures. The blame was not for the Portuguese but, yes, for the wrong and contradictory signs and for the lack of planning. But if we defend a timetabled opening plan, this is not incompatible with caution, which we always defend. If we return to facilitation, we can be compromising a more sustained recovery of the economy and the most sacrificed sectors, such as tourism, restoration, for whom spring and summer will be a decisive period. A secure and controlled opening also implies levels of screening and testing, which at this stage is not understandable that have decreased. On the test, it is, moreover, to point out that the government has withdrawn and refused to limit testing to public schools, which would mean again to discriminate negatively against private school students and families who often choose it, in their free choice of education, with many sacrifices. It is as if there were two countries: that of the State — which counts — and the other, that of the private, which is to be ostracized and discriminated against. We saw this in health, with the refusal to contract, not taking advantage of the overall capacity of the system, or, better, only when the situation was completely desperate; in education, by deliberately hostileing private education and the families that chose for it, as if the government were guided by that concept, which we have seen recently, of a «bourgeois in telework», which needs to fight and tax more and more, with more taxes. The Recovery and Resilience Plan is, moreover, more of this and more of it. Bet in the public and in the state, ignoring the private sector, as if there were two countries: that of the socialists and the other, that of all of us. The problem is that those who produce wealth, who can lead the country to recovery and normality are the others: companies, exporters, entrepreneurs, traders. These, yes, are those who produce wealth. Moreover, this plan has, at the outset, an obvious defect, which is that it did not foresee the very serious damage of the third wave—it was done in June—and therefore did not take it into account. Not content with this, the Prime Minister has recently said that this crisis represents the failure of neoliberal views.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u19	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u20	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Read: "We socialists, we rule well, the others, not. » This said by the Prime Minister of a country that was, for weeks, only the worst in the world! Not only did the governments of the right or centre-right not do worse as they generally did much better in Germany, the United Kingdom or Greece. Less ideological rhetoric, less demagogy and more competence is not asking too much, it is not demanding too much from this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u21	For an intervention by the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have come back more than a year since we have all been called upon to meet, for the first time, with an emergency state, the health situation that we are facing today, even though more optimistic, is not yet overcome. Today we have heard of the risk of trivialization, for example, of the state of emergency itself, the constitutional figure, the ban on the restriction of rights, freedoms and guarantees. And if it is true that, today, we need a health law that mitigates the devastating effect that this declaration can have on fundamental rights, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this common and invisible enemy that we all face and that one year ago entered our lives and changed, globally, the way we live, true if you say, you do not know, he himself, constitutional limits. That is why what cannot be trivialized is the value of all and every human life of those we have already lost, of those who are sick, of their families and of all those who are being affected by these losses. What cannot be trivialized either is the social and economic effects, which are absolutely devastating, of this crisis and the inequalities that exist and persist and which have worsened even more structurally. In view of this, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all called upon to combat this health crisis with all our means and also to ensure that each euro will be used transparently and, above all, invested in the foundation of the country's economic and social recovery. If we know today that the evolution of the epidemiological situation shows us that we are on the right path to defining, it is essential that this defination which is approaching be well planned and communicated and that no impassionation or hesitation is being made. Today we know that the positivity rate is below 4 %, far from the 10 % required by international recommendations and that our R(contagation index), the lowest in Europe, despite discrepancies with the autonomous regions, is already on strike. However, current data, although positive, cannot be seen in isolation. We continue to have a worrying number of hospitalizations in intensive care units, which record values, especially in the age range from 50 to 79 years, which, by changing the standard, should lead us to think seriously if we should not speed up and extend the vaccination of this age group. If we continue to collectively make a containment effort, we will arrive at the end of March with 85 % of the beds available for other diseases. And we must not forget that, apart from the treatment of COVID diseases, patients with non-COVID diseases cannot stay behind, particularly oncological ones, who have been to signal and to treat. However, we see with concern that a certain fatigue of confinement has led even to a significant increase in mobility and also of the values of the population which in some way has disrespected the duty of confinement. That is why, even if we see a gradual and phased defination, we can never lose sight of the fact that the present sacrifice is tomorrow's freedom and, above all, that if we make sacrifices, it is to save lives. We thus learned the lessons of the first wave, a year ago, in which only one person from Italy was responsible for 4000 cases of COVID-19. When we talk about new highly infectious strains we talk about precisely the risk of repeating cases of rapid propagation such as this or of cases of increase that are not detected in the most recent official data. The preparation of the defination must be done, as we have already warned, in a planned way, with account, weight and measure, in order to avoid the errors of the first defination and the end of last year, which happens, of course, because we do not act as if the virus knew the timetable. Experience has shown us that the pre-defined dates are not a good way, they are rather a leap in the dark and that the important thing is to look at the indicators of epidemiological evolution and to balance them with social, mental and economic factors. We must open, yes, but gradually, by reference to different levels of risk, identifying the sectors that can open depending on the degree of risk, agglomeration, contact with other people, mobility, among others. Our focus may not be on the calendar or on celebrating ephemerides, but on keeping down the level of incidence and saving lives. In defining, we cannot deceive people and tell them that the risk of a new confinement is overcome. We must have a clear communication, which says well the red lines that cannot be exceeded and the restrictions that must be adopted, if that happens. We need to reassess the situation itself every 15 days. We need to draw up, as long as it is time, a framework of pre-fixed, clear, ambitious support with fair values for what is social chaos and also to respond to the fair revolt of economic sectors, before any other kind of setbacks occur from the point of view of what the country's economic situation was. People, families and businesses need to know, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as they expect in the future, need some stability in this difficult context. We cannot leave them in suspense again about the future. We can and should also ensure that vaccination and testing are fully aligned with defining schools and opening borders, especially in the face of new strains. In the culture sector, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, time is running out. It would be appropriate for the Government to begin preparing a mass test for the reopening of the sector and also very detailed and specified support plans to support this sector most affected by the socio-economic crisis. The NAP will of course vote in favour of the renewal of the state of emergency, taking into account the context we live in, but not without stressing that today's restrictions are the freedom of tomorrow and that, as much as it costs, the path must be the responsibility rather than the false promises.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u23	For an intervention, I shall now give the floor to Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP. I recall, however, that elections are being held for the following bodies: the Constitutional Court ; Superior Council of National Defence ; National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences ; Council of Monitoring the Information System of the Portuguese Republic ; Board of Supervisors of the Integrated Criminal Information System ; Commission of Access to Administrative Documents ; Council of Radio Opinion and Television of Portugal, S.A. ; and National Mechanism for Monitoring the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I'm sorry, Mrs. Mariana Silva, for this little interruption. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Until when? Until we fulfill the ritual of coming here to debate an emergency state that has long been realized that nothing adds? The moment we live, whether with regard to the number of infected by the COVID-19, whether with respect to the National Health Service, is a greater explosion. During these long weeks, it was the effort of the Portuguese generality that enabled us to reach this point. Someone answers this simple question: for this effort, what was the contribution of the state of emergency? We answered: none! In the meantime, the pandemic fatigue begins to make itself feel. This second confinement required more than each one, in the limitation of routines, in the imposition of telework and in the combination of telework with the follow-up of children and young people in their school activities, in the care of the family, often without their wages, in the absence of social contact. The Greens believe that it is time to definate, in a planned way, organized and with a clear bet in communication, so that it can be ensured that no steps are taken back. It was already clear that the understanding of the measures leads to greater acceptance and stricter compliance. As we said so many times, the state of emergency was not a solution and it is still not. And it is no solution to the further crisis, the economic and social crisis, for which we are not yet seeing the peak, nor do we know how far their economic, social and health consequences will go, especially of mental health. The emergency, now, is that the government strengthens the structures of the State and ensures rapid support, with responses in the most various areas, transmitting confidence to people. No, we're not all on the same boat since the beginning of the pandemic, and we're still not. The economic, social and mental consequences of the moment we live will affect more than others. The emergency is therefore due to: ensuring support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, taking all measures to ensure, for example, that local trade does not close, leaving the centres of empty cities of movement and people; strengthening the National Health Service in all its areas, but especially in the valences that can contribute to the strengthening of primary care, strengthening proximity with the patients, hiring family doctors for all and investing in mental health, which must no longer be seen as the poor parent, since it will be the main pillar for the future, betting on prevention and not reacting only when they evolve to chronic diseases; wagering on education for children and young people in the country, ensuring the health conditions in schools, also hiring workers who need, reducing the number of students by class so that it is possible to meet one of the central measures physical distancement; and returning hope to Portuguese in a robust way, supporting the sector that can provide such a great contribution to their culture, ensuring that their living conditions are guaranteed. It is important to strengthen the culture so that all the professionals of the culture are given work again, in open spaces, obeying the safety rules, and in the spaces that have already made extensive investments, so that they can work. It is also cultural that we need, to face the days that follow. The emergency is that the government is not surprised by the number of unemployed, by the closure of businesses, by collective redundancies, and by strengthening the means and support so that the country can survive an acute crisis. But in order for the government not to be surprised, it is necessary to prevent, respond quickly to the deficiencies and, above all, to be able to guarantee to all Portuguese who want rapid access to the vaccine, which may involve buying more and other suppliers. For all this to happen, we don't need the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u25	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members :At the time we started this discussion, the country asks us to reopen and to definate. It is not only the Virtual Country, but also the Real Country, at the door of this House, that asks the Government to reopen the Country. Today we have the most restrictive measures of the European Union, not by courage, but by cowardice of a government that has only been able to close and, by incompetence, end with an ill-planned state of emergency and accumulated deaths during the winter. Today, we all heard on all television channels: « We no longer expect anything from the government! We're full of promises! We can't stand any more confinement! » An open country and listening, saying that it no longer supports a socialist government, without any consideration for the rights of those who for years have worked and supported this country. In the middle of this, we increase the retirement age and tell future pensioners to work more, because that's why they are there, to pay those who don't want to do anything at all. It is for this and to support the socialist state that continues to work. But it is true that the Prime Minister was right to say that we had an ambitious vaccination plan. Yes, we had it, but above all for the socialist autarchs, for presidents of mercy, for politicians who went ahead in line with the vaccines. It was for them, and only for them, that we had such an ambitious vaccination plan. But we have also given major support plans, especially in funds that have ended and that are no longer there today to hand over to restaurants, hotels, tourism, traders and all those who look at us with a sense of need. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we said that no one was left behind, but the government today does not want to hear about schools or homes, because it knows well that it left them behind in this process, with disoriented families and a country without knowing what to do. My dear ones, this is not a state of national emergency, it is an emergency state in which the great electorate of the left and extreme left, minorities and dependent subsidies continue to live on the account of those who continue to pay taxes, those who continue to work and those who continue, without any support, to support this country. That is why socialists do not want to end this state of emergency, because it only punishes, only punishes and only overthrows those who work, those who surrender and those who like this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u27	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u28	It is that everyone else, those who continue to live on the public record, those who continue to live on our work and our taxes, they are there and will always receive and always benefit them. This is the socialist shame of this state of emergency!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u29	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If this new presidential decree is passed here today, the state of emergency will be in force until March 31. It may seem unbelievable, but at that time the country will have lived half — I repeat, half — of the last year in a state of emergency, the country will have lived half a year with important suspended constitutional rights and important suspended individual freedoms. We cannot accept the normalization of this state of exception and these limitations to our freedoms, because, if we accept this exception favorably, we will soon be begging to declare the state of normality. The President of the Republic has also already realized that the state of emergency is too gross a tool for the needs to combat a health situation, so he has launched the Government and this House, or he will launch, the challenge of adopting a health emergency law. It may even be a good idea, but the Liberal Initiative wants to give a warning here: if, with this law, only if it intends to continue to give legal coverage to unilateral decisions of the Government at the same time as diminishing the role of the Assembly of the Republic and protecting the citizen, they will not count on our support. This new emergency period will not have our support either. The decree, moreover, only presents two differences in relation to the previous one: on the one hand, the recitals are reduced to a minimum, because the President himself, at the end of 13 decrees, no longer knows what to say; the other difference is the inclusion of a sentence, unfortunately only in the article on teaching, concerning the need for articulation of the defination plan with the plans of testing, screening and vaccination. It was the Liberal Initiative that raised this issue to Mr. President of the Republic, because it seemed to us, soon after the last meeting of the Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority ), that being developing plans on the knee, based on proposals by specialists presented three days earlier, incompatible with each other and without taking into account that the key variables of this plan will be influenced decisively by what is done at the level of testing, screening and vaccination, will be another error in the management of this pandemic. A management of the pandemic that seems to have passed from a stage of confusion by disorientation to a phase of paralysis by the analysis well symbolized by the recent proliferation of task forces — is the task force of vaccination, is the task force of testing and now until communication has its task force. And this is not the first time that the country is witnessing destruction by disorientation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u31	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u32	I shall conclude, Mr President. Today, 46 years ago, on 11 March 1975, it began the PREC (the ongoing revolutionary process) of communist inspiration, a process of economic and social destruction whose costs we still pay and that there is no task forces that solve. I remind history not to repeat the story. In the PREC that Portugal needs today, the R is of recovery, it is of reform, it is of renewal. It's about renewing our ambition, but it's not about renewing the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u33	Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u34	Mr. President and Mr. Members: Today I wish to congratulate and thank all the individuals and entities who have committed themselves and are still engaged in the fight against COVID-19 and who today give us the chance to be in a time when we can say that we are already winning the pandemic. in these complicated, difficult times that we live in and that are approaching we need to be careful when we share the same ideas of the nation and entity with fascists and antidemocratics. This is because democracy needs to be protected and fascism is always masked with goodwill. It must be remembered that Portugal is not a country of conquerors, Portugal is a country of workers and workers, essential or not essential, who need greater recognition, in particular of greater pay recognition. We must also remember that we are not a country of heroes, we are a country of heroines, we are a country of women of various ages, of various origins, of women who still need to make a huge effort to achieve the so-called equality, an equality that is official but that is not yet a real equality. It is still necessary to remember that, at this moment, and especially in the post-COVID-19 era, we will need to look after our institutions as never needed since April 25 to this day. It is necessary to watch for democracy and to unite against fascist manipulation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u35	You have the word Mrs. Deputy not enrolled Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this new debate of state of emergency renewal, highlight the improvement of data related to the propagation of the COVID-19, revealing the success of the collective effort of the Portuguese. However, in the week on which the International Women's Day is celebrated, I cannot fail to point out the long way in which we still have to go about gender equality. I take advantage to honor the movements and women who have fought and actively fight for a more equal, just and free world. According to the UN Human Rights Council ( United Nations ), with the closure of schools and successive quarantines, gender-based violence cases have increased, with a particular focus on domestic violence, to 30% in some countries. In fact, the pandemic has had a far greater impact on women than on men, since it is working more often on a precarious regime and is therefore more at risk. Women have lost their jobs more easily, becoming more vulnerable to poverty and their economic independence has been threatened. On the other hand, many of the women who have managed to keep their jobs are, in the majority, given to a reality without rest between telework and family care. However, important steps have been taken. For example, the European Commission launched the Gender Equality Strategy and presented a proposal on wage transparency as a first step towards eliminating wage disparities and ensuring equal participation of women in the labour market. We have seen the EU budget for 2021 - 2027 increase its funding for programmes for women and girls. Nevertheless, as the pandemic continues in 2021, women's and girls' organizations continue to face enormous resource constraints, increasing their vulnerability and increased risks of marginalization and serious damage. It is urgent to adopt a directive to end all forms of violence, online and offline, against women and girls, and sexual exploitation, to ensure that all women have the same level of protection in the European Union. Portugal, according to the Gender Equality Index 2019, appears as the country that has made the greatest progress in gender equality in the European Union, and this is a achievement that does not allow any setbacks, even with the pandemic, and therefore I appeal to the Government to meet this challenge.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u37	To conclude this debate, you have the floor by the Government, the Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was completed last week a year of pandemic declared by WHO and, as already mentioned, next week we will sign a year since we have decreed the first state of emergency. It was a very difficult year for all Portuguese, in all sectors, of all ages, of all social classes, a particularly difficult year for all those who lost family members and friends — so far 1635 people died because of this disease. Portugal has today, as has been said by all the experts — and we could all hear it at the last meeting of Infarmed — conditions to initiate a process of lifting the containment measures. This is due to the Portuguese who have fulfilled and who have a great ability to adhere to a set of measures that are very difficult for their lives. Today we have an alignment with numbers of admissions in intensive care units, daily cases, incidence and positivity, all aligned with the lines that specialists identified as the red lines for our performance. We also know that this defination needs to be phased and phased, for many of the reasons we already know today. Firstly, because we know that openness will certainly lead to an increase in the number of cases, but also because today we have a set of new variants that have already become more transmissible and that we know today are also of greater lethality. Therefore, the lifting of measures is not an end, it is the beginning of a process, which will be slow, will be gradual and which implies permanent control of the indicators presented by the country in terms of incidence, rate of variation and response capacity of the SNS. The sovereignty bodies in Portugal — President of the Republic, Government and Assembly of the Republic — have provided an example of articulation in their options. A very close work has been done not only in decision-making but also in discussions on subjects at very regular meetings if they always make very complex decisions. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD, this common responsibility is not just to be assumed when it matters, it is to be assumed always. And it is not worth saying now that they disagreed with measures when, if they disagreed, it was because they found it too restrictive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese have memories of who defended what and when. They have now come to say that they disagreed is only possible in a framework of intervention which has as its sole objective the desponsibility and guilt, which is not what is expected at a time like what we are living in. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We continue, like Country, to work. 1 078 763 vaccines have already been administered, 306 420 at second dose, and these are no numbers, numbers that have given priority. We today have all the people in our homes, where there are no active outbreaks, vaccinated, all the workers of the SNS, a large majority of the health professionals, and this work is ongoing. We will arrive at the end of this first quarter of the year with more than 80 % of the more than 80 years vaccinated, with the vaccination to be rapid for those over 50 years with morbidity, for the security forces, for the essential services of the state and now also for schools. We also continue to work in the tests, having already changed the rules to test all contacts of each positive and not only the risk contacts and to launch screenings whenever necessary, starting with the schools already starting this month. And these tracks are to continue in various sectors. We also continue to work, as we have done so far, on strengthening the response capacity of the SNS, increasing the intensive care units, acquiring PPE (individual protection equipment) for different sectors, testing, strengthening response teams to the most vulnerable populations. Controlling the pandemic and supporting the economy was something mentioned here by all the banks, and that is what has been done, because without it we would not have covered so many companies, so many people, in a very significant financial volume and obviously in a crisis context like the one we live, we would not have ended the year 2020 with 6, 8 % unemployment. The unemployment figures which Portugal has, even though every unemployed person is experiencing a dramatic situation, prove that the measures to support the economy were the necessary measures, are the necessary measures. Even today, they are renewed and extended, also taking into account the sectors most affected by the crisis, such as tourism, culture, social sectors, restoration or sport. at the same time, it is necessary to continue in other dimensions, as are we doing. It is necessary to continue the recovery work, with the implementation of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, giving resilience to the SNS, facing housing problems, renewing social responses, supporting the economy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have reason to face the future with greater confidence, because there are vaccines and we have a vaccination schedule ahead of us and because we have more scientific knowledge today. But we need to have knowledge and awareness—and that is how I wanted to finish—that the process that we are going to start taking measures is a slow process, it is a gradual process and it is a process that can only continue to advance on the timetables presented if we continue to comply with the health indicators. It is not a process that can correspond to any return to normality in our closest times. And, a year ago, we all know that this is the case: only with the small steps we are preparing to take can we take truly sustainable steps on this path. That's what the government will do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u39	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the debate, we are therefore in a position to proceed to the vote on the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of BE.]] This vote allows for the renewal of the state of emergency declaration. We must also vote now, due to timetables, for the authorizations of the travels of Mr President of the Republic to Rome and Madrid. Let us therefore vote on draft resolution No 1062 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Rome and Madrid. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The third item on our agenda follows an urgent debate required by the PSD on agriculture. However, I recall that very important elections are taking place: for the Constitutional Court, the Superior Council of National Defence, the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, the Board of Supervisors of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, the Board of Supervisors of the Integrated Criminal Information System, the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents, the Council of the Portuguese Radio and Television Opinion, S.A. and the National Mechanism for Monitoring the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Let us then begin the urgent debate required by the PSD on agriculture. To open the debate, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Agriculture, the PSD Parliamentary Group has marked this urgent debate for one reason: the rural world is orphaned. It is regrettable that this government has abandoned agriculture and the rural world, which was well-known in the Recovery and Resilience Plan. What is more, we have a Minister of Agriculture who has come to harass the rural world with the excuse of the environment. But let me tell you something, Mrs Minister: agriculture and the environment are neither to be treated as enemies nor to be treated as enemies. And if it is a fact that the agroforestry sector has never stopped, continuing to produce goods and services for the whole society, it is also true that it was no exception to the problems of imbalance between supply and demand and other consequences arising from the pandemic. Even so, its resilience was proven through an enormous capacity of organization. In 2020, despite the decrease in GVA ( gross added value ), reflecting the yield of agricultural activity, which decreased by 3 %, which did not occur since 2011, exports of agricultural products increased by 6 %, 2 %, in contrast to the rest of the economy. In view of this capacity, which should pride us as a country, the logical question is: how did public policy respond in the agricultural and forestry area? The answer is a cold water bucket, Mrs. Minister. It was uncoordinated, ineffective, insufficient, without strategy, without even reasoned thinking, compromising the recovery of a crucial sector to our country and, consequently, the territory and society. The examples of government failure in this area are vast, but we focus on the Recovery and Resilience Plan. Let us see: a programme that could represent a hope for agriculture was presented through an empty document, which seems more like a list of intentions, without the past, without the future. It can be seen that there is no single goal, there is no single objective, there is no single cost-benefit analysis. In the agricultural part it is even worth asking: whether or not the country will produce more and better? Whether or not to contribute to the reduction in the agri-food balance deficit of EUR 3500 million? Do you want to export more or not? Whether or not to maintain high-quality sustainable food production? Why, if so, where is the support on the Recovery and Resilience Plan? Where is the support leading to these results complementary to the other Community financial instruments? More, Mrs. Minister : where is the water factor in this plan? Where is the water in a country where there is no agriculture without irrigation,... [[There, there!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u41	...in a country where there is no territorial cohesion without water? YesSr.a Minister, with only water it is possible to be resilient in agriculture, only with water it is possible to have an ambition of greater preservation in biodiversity and, to this extent, even though the Socialist Party disagrees, the issue should be central in public policies, and it is not. On the other hand, where is the digital transition in agriculture, Minister? He's not. The PSD has found that a government that speaks, yes, day by day, of digital transition does not make a reference to agriculture or the rural world. Where are the measures that strengthen value chains in local markets? Where are the measures and funding for the modernisation and resizing of cooperatives and other producer organisations that make them more resistant to market aggressiveness? Where is the plan to implement an integrated system for the reuse of effluents from livestock holdings, with the possibility of interaction in forest management, creating a true circular economy? Even on the forest side, abandoned by this government by taking it out of the protection of the Minister, the Recovery and Resilience Plan has no complement to the forest measures adopted by the Council of Ministers last week, which unfortunately treat the forest without regard to it as a productive multifunctional territory. Mr. Minister, as it is easy to see, the agroforestry sector is even being abandoned by the current government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u42	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u43	In agriculture, for the complete submission to the radical discourse of those who do not like the rural world and, worse, due to a serious lack of strategic vision, there is a total absence of agricultural policy and a country's submission to disruptive speeches, before a sector that extraordinarily survives the constant changes in the orientation of the CAP (common agricultural policy) thanks to the investment and innovation of farmers themselves. In the forest, the disillusionment is equally serious. It is not perceived from rustic territory when one despises the multifunctionality of the forest and the result is the concentration of actions in urban forests or in children's book landscape. Mrs. Minister, I can't finish without telling you one last thing: we're still in time to recover. Listen to the sector, set goals and provide the Country with funding to strengthen our food supply, making it even more resilient, because our rural world continues to produce unpriced environmental goods. Without agriculture there is no preservation or promotion of biodiversity. And there is no room to defend if more than half of our territory is desert. We therefore call on the entire Government to listen to the Socialist Euro MP, who, even today, has warned farmers to be included and heard in the implementation of the measures. How long will we have to wait, Minister? Until we have to wait for a sector so essential to our survival to be treated again with the seriousness it deserves? Agriculture and the rural world deserve much more respect and attention from you! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u44	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Pedro do Carmo, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members: Portugal, Europe and the world are facing a huge public health challenge, the biggest and most demanding for decades because of the pandemic. in this context, Portugal needed the rural world, its productive capacity, our farmers and their producers, and they said « present ». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u46	Again, the interior, agriculture, livestock and other productive sectors responded to and met the needs of the Portuguese, who once again said « present ». I mean, on behalf of the PS, thank you. Yes, thank you all. This is what the PSD should say today, here: thank you to our farmers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And you should say it not only with words, but also with actions, with contributions, with proposals to support and improve the sector. at this moment, difficult for all, the agricultural sector, fundamental sector for our country, has shown all its resilience capacity and is at the same time in pandemic—we all know — with closed restaurants and hotels, recovering and growing. The numbers mirror that evidence. But, let us be clear, if the real intention of the PSD, with the scheduling of this urgent debate, was to promote and defend the agricultural sector, today would present concrete proposals and not half a dozen measures, which we all know the government has already implemented or will implement. The PSD should say "we are available to support and contribute to the acceleration of the National Regadios Programme as this is a structural investment for the development of the country, which ensures and promotes sustainable agriculture" and should also say "we want a new CAP! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Yes, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira — that is what they should say — a CAP that ensures and guarantees genuine rural development, with more cohesion funds, agreed to leverage and multiply the funds allocated to the RDP ( Rural Development Programme). We want a new CAP which significantly improves the value of payment per hectare, creating conditions for a better balance between farmers and territory, whether dry or regadium—it seems that the PSD has omitted this part— whether large or small farmers. So I ask: can farmers count on the PSD? Or, better, can we all count on PSD, Portugal and Europe? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u47	In reply, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u48	Mr President, Mr Pedro do Carmo, I thank you for the questions you have raised. It's just a shame I brought the already written question and I didn't hear what I said recently from the rostrum. [[PS protests.]] We thank farmers, we do not thank the Government and the Minister for Agriculture. And I am glad that you want to count on the PSD, because the PSD has put forward a number of proposals to improve the rural world and agriculture, which you should have studied, and for which we count on the Socialist Party's favourable vote. And it's strange that in your good intentions list, there's no... [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] Don't you want to hear? Do you want to hear it or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u49	I hear with all the taste!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u50	So, if you want to listen, I'm answering. The PSD even has a proposal for the CAP to anticipate payments. I hope you will vote in favour of her. But we also have proposals for recreation, we have proposals for various areas. It is important that the Socialist Party, which, day after day, speaks in the digital transition, does not forget that the digital transition is fundamental in agriculture and in the rural world. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u51	For an intervention, by the NAP, you now have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The socio-economic crisis we are living in has struck in an overwhelming way several areas of our society. Agriculture is no exception. We welcome the PSD Parliamentary Group for bringing this issue to debate. However, it does not cease to be curious that, on a day-to-day basis, in particular in parliamentary work, the PS and PS join so many times to reject proposals that aim to ensure the necessary transition, not only a digital transition, but also an ecological transition and also the preservation of our ecosystems, which is urgent and which has long been delayed. The agricultural sector, in fact, does not have any illusions, is absolutely fundamental in that which is the survival of civilizations and is still an important activity today, which cannot contain nor simply stop. it depends, indeed, on the very survival of humanity. The NAP is effectively concerned at the difficulties that farmers are going through, especially small farmers, who are even traditionally or biologically engaged in their activities, those who do not have the means or training sufficient to access support funds or who are not even sized to, in any way, be entitled to support that is channelled, then, to large producers, to the interests set up, which are dedicated to intensive or superintensive agriculture, many of them who are not even Portuguese companies and who consume our natural and financial resources in an absolutely unsustainable way. But the NAP is also concerned not only with the present, it is concerned about the future of agriculture in Portugal, because we all know that the future of our agriculture will have to be very different from what is now. We all know, too, that there will have to be a transition to models that are more sustainable and that contribute to reducing pollution emissions, encouraging short production chains, and combating the phenomenon of climate change. And the question here is also to realize that the sooner Portugal moves towards this transition, the better it will be for our agriculture and our planet. We have no doubt of this! This, yes, is important and will be crucial for the competitiveness of Portuguese agriculture in the present and future. We cannot stay behind in relation to Europe nor can we ignore the commitments to decarbonisation, the European Ecological Pact or the 2030 Agenda or even less with the considerations on animal welfare, which are so often denied by this House. Unfortunately, this transition has been systematically blocked here in the Assembly of the Republic by a conservative barrier, aligned with what is the interests installed and which refuses to accept that the emergence of climate change and its consequences for Portugal and for many other countries of the world are neither scientific fiction nor a passing fashion. They are a reality with terrible consequences for humanity, and it is urgent to look at this reality seriously and find solutions to adapt ourselves to this inevitable scenario, even though it is not, by the farmers themselves, who say they defend, and who are so often affected by extreme climatic phenomena, which destroy their cultures and their own facilities. The NAP has presented a number of initiatives which, unfortunately, deserve the opposition of the majority of the parties in this House, particularly with regard to organic agriculture, which, despite being an alleged priority for the Ministry, as recently stated by the Minister of Agriculture, continues to be pre-eminent for the benefit of agriculture which does not respect the limits of our planet nor the health of people. We have heard less of it, Mrs Minister, to take account of animal welfare, forgetting so many times that it also has this concern under your care. It is scandalous, for example, that in Portugal, much of the financial resources that should be used to finance and support organic agriculture are used to create pasture for livestock, i.e., funding is literally buried in green pastures to create zero biological products. The money that should be channeled exclusively to biological producers and to true organic farming is scattered by those who want agriculture to continue in it and that the support benefits the same as ever. The NAP presents concrete solutions and supports incentives for the creation of agricultural habitats, management of these same habitats as well, production based on short chains, consumption of fresh and local products, conversion of agriculture to more sustainable ways, closer to consumers and healthier, as well as defending the training of farmers themselves to stimulate a fair and effective transition. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u53	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u54	I am indeed concluding, Madam President. It remains curious—and I finish—that the PSD, which comes here today to claim support for farmers, is one of the main parties that has manifested itself intransigently against this ecological transition, which has been struck in this House so that everything continues in it, which does not accept that the fight against climate change is at the top of the political agenda...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u55	Madam Member, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u56	... and having an outdated and distant view of the reality that prevents Portugal from placing itself at the forefront of Europe in order to ensure the commitments and targets assumed for the realization of the European Ecological Pact, the 2030 Agenda, and putting Portugal, above all, in a prominent position in Europe as a model of sustainable agriculture. The ladies and gentlemen will stay. Ladies and gentlemen summoned to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u57	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u58	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: As evidenced by the resistance shown by the sector during the pandemic, agriculture does not deserve to continue to be the poor relative of the economy. It has to be seen as what it is and can be even more: a source of development and growth for the country. And since the liberal minute is, in spite of everything, only one minute, I will highlight, today, only one of the many themes crucial to agriculture, which is the theme of water. The rationality of the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ) regarding water is not understood, nor the relationship of this PRR with the National Investment Plan 2030. I give you one example: the hydraulic use of multiple uses of Crato predicts that the water perimeter is divided into batches of 100 ha. It is supposed to be an incentive to relocate people in this low-density area, but at the same time imposes a maximum use of 3000 m3/ha. This will make it impossible, at the outset, to install any permanent culture. It is not only the olives and the almonds, it is also the vine, the walnuts and any kind of fruit trees and it is also the annual crops that have potential in that particular area, such as corn, rape, tomato and even the seed sunflower. That is, on the one hand, it is said that if you want to attract people and investments and, on the other, the cultures that these people may have an interest in become impossible. There's no logic, there's no rational, there's no strategy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u59	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u60	I shall conclude with this sentence, Minister... Mrs. Minister, no, Mr. President. He is not yet Minister. The phrase is as follows: agriculture deserves more, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u61	Mr. Member, lapsus language is normal, they have no meaning. For an intervention, Mr Ricardo Vicente, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister for Agriculture: There have been many manifestations of discontent about the common agricultural policy in Portugal and the inequalities that this policy promotes. More than 40 % of Portuguese agricultural holdings are excluded from any subsidies from the CAP, but if we look at the extremitude and Algarve regions, we see that more than two thirds of the last two Community frameworks have been excluded. Producers and forest farmers know this problem well: while some receive nothing, others profit more from public support than from their own production. Recent studies show that, on average, CAP subsidies account for more than half of the annual agricultural income of Alto Alentejo. The old single payment scheme, currently based payment scheme (RPB), is a historical income, a system of privilege which successive governments have defended, in a broad agreement between the Socialist Party and the right. The Government is now producing the Strategic Plan of the CAP by 2027 and has the best opportunity to reform this public policy and to make it, once and for all, correspond to the public interest. To prepare this path, a panel of experts was created three years ago in order to obtain scientific advice. It appears that several of these experts have already come to the Assembly of the Republic to express their discontent with the action and intentions of the Government for agricultural and forestry policy. Dissatisfaction has a common denominator: it is called territorial and social inequity. Recently there was even the resignation of a specialist who gave rise to a letter we received in Parliament, where it can be read that « decisions taken by the Ministry of Agriculture do not include fundamental principles and objectives of equity ». Your Ministry is still accused of lack of transparency in the conduct of this process. Under the new Community rules, the Government is preparing to reduce EUR 85 million per year to the rural development pillar to deliver them to the beneficiaries of the RPB and ensure that income remains. In Portugal, more than half of the public expenditure of the CAP is applied in measures which depend essentially on the agricultural area. As a result, the support granted by the area is almost all applied to the south of the Tejo and to the north of the Algarve, where the large owners specialized in capturing subsidies. The rest of the country and the small agriculture of Alentejo remain behind. Disarray is such that much of the support for organic farming is captured by pasture that does not produce organic meat. Today, Parliament will vote on a Block project to promote organic agriculture and combat this abuse. Mrs. Minister, Portuguese agriculture is much more than declared agricultural properties and areas; it is food production, it is work and employment that sustains the people and gives cohesion to the territory. But so far the governments have ignored this reality. Many areas benefited by the RPB, which represents one third of the CAP support, are not even cultivated, but the owners receive support in the same way. Farm farms north of Tejo are the ones that generate the most jobs, the ones that most families support, but as family and wage work does not count on government accounts, the support of the common agricultural policy per worker are on average ten times higher in the Alentejo than in the region affected by the fires of Pedrogão Grande and more than twice as much as in the rest of the country. Madam Minister, is the Government available to draw a model of support that contemplates territorial and social equity and to value family or waged agricultural work? The investigator who resigned, Francisco Cordovil, suggests territorial equity criteria that consider the volume of work by 20% to 30%. Why did your Government refuse this proposal? Is the Government available to reconsider your position? The European Commissioner for Agriculture says that the CAP should not give aid to those who violate labour rights. The Government is currently in a position to take that decision. Does the Minister agree? How does the Government intend to implement this measure? Have you taken any steps to this end, also within the Presidency of the Council of the European Union? Is the Government available to redirect support and ensure that, in the fire regions, farmers and forest producers benefit from the CAP, at least on an equal footing with the rest of the country? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u63	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This government has been characterized, and it is no longer now, by a certain prejudice against agriculture. It is also true that prejudice against agriculture has not started now in the last 10 or 20 years, but the CDS has fought it, and we will continue to fight it. In the case of this government and some forces that more explicitly or more implicitly support it, you can see. In fact, the rural world, from the Government's point of view, represents few votes, because it is in less populated areas, and, from the point of view of a certain urban morality, it would say of an urban pseudomoralism on proper ways of living, is a sector, as I have already heard, overcome. On the other hand, listening to some political forces here, I doubted whether the main objective of an agricultural holding should be to produce as little as possible. I am beginning to think that, for some political forces, agriculture is only acceptable when it produces as little food as possible. I would like to know how many of these farmers know and if we all know here that agriculture is an economic activity whose aim, yes, is the production of food goods, and this should not be seen with prejudice. To imagine that, by fighting this, if biodiversity increases or protects the rural world is an illusion. This happens only to those who think that protecting the rural world is to make posts, locked up in an apartment, because those who live on the earth, who work on the earth, those, yes, know that things need to be done differently. And it is precisely for the Ministry and the Government also to live in such prejudices — which I believe, by chance, that the Minister does not share, but is a victim of them — that every day we watch the disauthorization of the Minister for Agriculture and the dismemberment of his Ministry. Soon for the beginning of conversation, the forests remained outside their Ministry, soon without the competence of the forests. After a year had not yet passed, it was also without the competence of pet animals — in fact, Mr Prime Minister said here, in front of all of us, that the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary ( DGAV ) and the Ministry had no competence to deal with this matter. Does the Minister think it is normal for the Prime Minister to come here and say that his Ministry has no competence to deal with the animal issue, which he has always been in the Ministry of Agriculture? And he went on to say that a very serious public health problem is being created, with the measures being taken. The question I put to you, Mrs Minister, is whether we are preparing to do the same with water, because, as far as we know, the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development has always been the National Authority of the Kingdom and has very competent technicians in this matter. And the Minister, and well, she asked for a study on this subject, but she gave it to EDIA — Alqueva’s Development and Infrastructure Company. The question is whether we are preparing to do what is already done to DGAV, that is to say, whether it will also be unable to deal with water. Secondly, I would also like to tell you that the absence of agriculture and agricultural matter in the Recovery and Resilience Plan is overwhelming. It's fraternizing! Very little or nothing is said! We are talking about recreation, an important matter, I do not deny it — much more should be done in this matter and much more remains to be done — but, in addition to the great projects that are spoken about there, nothing is said about dams, charcas or other forms of irrigation in the interior. Therefore, what you were asked by the Minister was whether there would be some reformulation in this public consultation period of the PRR. Finally, Mrs. Minister, I would also like to tell you about forests. The forest RDP is executed by only 55 %. I will finish by leaving this number and asking what the Ministry of Agriculture is going to do about it. Since 2015, unfortunately more than 855 000 ha have been burned; in 2019, fewer than 2000 ha have been planted throughout the country, 273 ha with rats, 73 ha with oaks...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u65	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u66	Of course, Madam President. As I said, in 2019, fewer than 2000 ha were treed throughout the country, 273 ha with rats, 73 ha with oaks, 13 ha with chestnut trees and 2 ha— only 2 ha! — with cookers. What I'm asking you is if there's going to be more trees and more bets in the woods.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u67	Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the Parliamentary Group of the Greens, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last February, Mrs Minister for Agriculture, we were aware of the resignation of the President of the Committee for the Monitoring of the CAP. In the letter, which is indeed public, where Prof. Francisco Cordovil is aware of his request for resignation, two essential reasons are mentioned: the first reason lies with the disregard of the right of all Portuguese citizens to be heard about the options of agricultural policy and the second concerns the lack of effective commitment to correct the territorial and social injustices of the current agricultural policy. Now, we know that currently 7 % of the CAP beneficiaries receive around 70 % of the aid, with probably one third of the national farmers who cannot even access and benefit from these important aid. We know that the main beneficiaries of this CAP aid represent an industrialized and dehumanized production model, which is not consistent with the European Green Pact and the Prado Strategy for the Prato. We also know, Mrs Minister, that it was very likely that there is no political will to change these territorial and social inequities which led to the resignation of the President of the Council for the Monitoring of the revision of the CAP. In any event, the Greens believe it would be important for the Minister to give her opinion on this matter, on the resignation of the President of the Council for the Monitoring of the Review of the CAP and, above all, on the reasons for this resignation. But it was also important, Mrs Minister, to tell us about the measures that are being planned to reverse this intolerable distribution of CAP aid in our country. I therefore leave the question to you, Minister : what measures are being taken by the Government to reverse this unacceptable distribution, at the level of the CAP aid, in which half-dozen takes everything and the generality of the farmers is literally shaking? But, Madam Minister, on the CAP, we have even more two questions to ask you. Although the CAP reform is not approved, the different countries have, over time, been moving forward in the construction of their national strategic plans for the implementation of the CAP for the next seven years. We know that, for example, Spain, since last year, has had a concrete proposal for a plan that it has discussed with the social partners and also with the European Commission. So far, there is no concrete proposal from Portugal, from what is known there is no proposal. Therefore, Mrs Minister, it was important for you to tell us here today the reasons for this delay. Finally, Madam Minister, our country currently holds the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and one of the objectives to be achieved during the Portuguese Presidency is an agreement on reform of the CAP. Therefore, with regard to agriculture, the great aim of this Presidency is to reach an agreement on the reform of the CAP. It has happened that, until now, we Portuguese, are completely unaware of any position or what the objectives of the Portuguese Government in relation to the content of the future agreement, almost seeming that, more than achieving content favourable to national interests, what the Minister is most concerned about is to reach an agreement during the Portuguese Presidency, whether it is good or bad for agriculture in our country. Mr Minister, within what is the position of the Council of Agriculture Ministers of the European Union, does you think that there are matters that could be improved or, in your understanding, is everything perfect for the interests of national agriculture? It is because Portuguese farmers demand from this Presidency a firm and decisive commitment to a social model of agriculture in order to combat the pandemic, but also to deal with the economic and social reconstruction that needs to be done and, of course, the challenges of environmental sustainability. It was important to know whether farmers can count on the government in this claim, which is more than just.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u69	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u70	Madam President, Minister for Agriculture: We have heard Mr Pedro do Carmo say that, when the farmers needed it, the government said 'present' and that when the country needed it, farmers said 'present'. It is curious, because that is not the information we receive here, every day, in Parliament. Even today, another association of municipalities, the CIM Douro ( Intermunicipal Community of the Douro ), said — and I quote — vehemently repudiating the Recovery and Resilience Plan presented by the Socialist Government. It is interesting that more than 60% of the associations of municipalities reject your plan for agriculture and come here to say that everyone said 'present' and that everyone agrees, beating palms, with the plan they presented. But it was also important to say the following: until today, the only real aid to farmers was the advance of the CAP's funds. This is the indisputable truth, which has no role to make in accounting terms: the only aid that has come was the advance of the CAP's funds, no government initiative, no government support, no support from the executive machine. Madam Minister, I am still asking you about digitisation, because, a month and a half ago, you said it was a fundamental task of your government and, having arrived here, we are more behind than most European countries in the field of digitisation of agriculture. It reminds me of another Minister of Agriculture, who may be the same as he is sitting here today, who said, in May...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u71	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u72	I shall conclude, Madam President. As I said, let me remind you of another Minister for Agriculture, who may be the same as he is sitting here today, who said in May: "Don't worry, because 80% of the new farmers will soon be inside". We are in 2021, Mrs Minister, and they are not inside 80 %, nor 70 %, nor 60 %, nor 50 %, nor 40 %. This, yes, should worry her.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u73	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u74	Madam President, Minister for Agriculture, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to tell Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira that, for the time being, I had the hope that she would be concerned about the central issue of agriculture, which is that of the prices paid for production, but in fact, she did not have a word, nor did she even worry about the behaviour of the large distribution, which crushes the prices to producers. This is a central issue, but the honourable Member has shown what has come, concerned with the millions of Brussels, to distribute them for the very same time, which are the great farmers. That's what the honourable Member here brought us. On the other hand, as far as agriculture is concerned, PSD and government are twin brothers or, allow me until I tell you, they are Siamese brothers, they are umbilically linked to the policies they choose. We have no doubt, because they're going to drink at the same place. Both the Government and the PSD decide their policies, as regards agriculture, at the conference table of the big farmers and the European Commission, and that is why they make no difference in their options. Madam Minister, of course, I have to ask you about the status of family farming. The Minister is not only missing the law of the Parliament of the Republic, the Minister is not only failing the compromise with the CFP, in her struggle to achieve the status of family farming—and so long as the CFP has fought! The Minister is also missing family farmers in implementing the measures necessary to ensure that the status of family farming actually makes sense in the lives of family farmers. And I therefore ask, of course, what measures are being taken to achieve this status of family farming and for when? As regards green electricity, Mrs Minister, this Government has made the only measure for the constant agriculture of the Budget supplement a complete absurd, because it has only supported the rate of the counter, and for a few months, by chance the months in which less electricity is consumed. These were the crumbs! Mrs Minister, farmers know who fought and who presented the proposal. Farmers know that it was the CFP that presented the proposal for green electricity and that they have been fighting for it over the years. But farmers also know that it was the government that let them down, when it was most necessary. In the face of the pandemic, support was needed for the costs of production factors and the Minister turned her back on them. We therefore want to know, Mrs Minister, how many farmers have applied for and what money has actually had this support. after all, what was the word involved? Madam Minister, as regards the CAP, the transitional period and, of course, the process of converging aid, the question which I will put to you is not invalid if the Minister comes to this House to respond to the request that the CFP submitted in December! On 4 December 2020, the CFP requested the presence of the Minister to clarify the transitional period and the question of convergence. Ms. Minister, the Ordinance No. 33 / 2021 and its Article 5 has been published. It's very worrisome. We are grateful that the Minister will clarify who will be winning in this transitional period and, in particular, in the convergence process. How much will the small and medium-sized farmers of the mini-fundarium lose and how much will the large farmers win, with this 100% convergence process that the Minister wants to carry out? How many southern farms will benefit from this? Mr. Minister, the dairy sector is a very big concern and, once again, proof that the government, the PSD and the CDS live unbilically in their options. We cannot forget your options! Today, 'another canton' would be if we had the milk quotas and our dairy producers would have other conditions. In fact, today we would have much more dairy producers than we have. Thousands of farms were closed due to the options of PS, PSD and CDS for the end of dairy quotas. An authentic disaster is foreseen for dairy producers! The Minister will certainly know how much the speculative prices of cereals and rations have risen in a single month. More than 10%, Mrs. Minister! What measures are you going to put forward to support this, which is essential, animal feed? What about the consequences of the pandemic, particularly for farmers and producers? In the reports on the implementation of the state of emergency, it's always all right, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. The government closes the Horeca channel, there is a close of restaurants, the drain channels are completely blocked, but for the government, it is always okay. Madam Minister, how is the country, in terms of food sovereignty, national production and food security?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u75	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u76	I shall finish, Madam President, by telling the Minister that her policies for the markets and export agriculture are not those that the country needs. The country needs incentives for national production and support for small and medium-sized farmers. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u77	For an intervention, Mr Francisco Rocha of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : 'Cotton does not deceive' and the two most relevant pillars in terms of investment and national agricultural development either. Otherwise, we see : in relation to the RDP, in 2020, its implementation was 100 %, with an increase of EUR 168 million compared to 2019. By the end of February this year, it had 100 % commitment rate and 76 % enforcement rate. With regard to the National Regadios Programme, 95 000 hectares will potentially create 10,550 jobs, with a positive impact of more than 280 million euros per year in terms of VAB, and a positive external balance of 73 million euros. Regarding the wine sector yesterday, the PSD said that this was one of the most abandoned sectors. Yes, it was exactly the opposite, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. The wine sector was the most supported sectors, with three specific measures and EUR 18 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u80	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, how can it be explained that a ministry which " does not exist" in your words that "is breaking up" has succeeded in opening up 64 external markets for 265 national products? [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this same ministry still has the courage to look at the 70 markets in the short term in order to enable 341 products to be exported. With regard to the PRR, it should be pointed out and reminded the PSD, that the PSD is not exclusive to agriculture, but there are nevertheless EUR 93 million for the financing of the Innovation Agenda for Agriculture 2020 - 2030. And for water there is also EUR 64 million for water investments for agricultural use. That's why, my dear ladies. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u81	Say comrade!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u82	Is everything done? Oh, my God! Of course not! Are all measures perfect? Oh, my God! Not either! But we also know that the real urgency of this debate is to stress that we must pursue this path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u83	Mr João Castro, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u84	Madam President, Minister for Agriculture, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the urgency of this debate, 'the mountain has waged a rat. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Rice from PS Pedro do Carmo's deputy.]] The PSD seems to confuse the emergence of its situation with the challenges of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u85	They're looking inside! It's just to show service!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u86	With regard to the financing of agriculture, we have all realized — and some of the interventions we have been witnessing well — that the reflection on the amount of funds is inadequate and beyond reality. in a time of clear global difficulties, when Europe and the world take on the challenge of a sustainable, secure, accessible and quality food, when Portugal assumes the Presidency of the Council, where, every day, recovery and resilience remain with agriculture, the opportunity is in the quality of the application of the funds in an integrated vision, which connects the different financial instruments when available. It is therefore important to understand, in the context of the link between the financing mechanisms already achieved at European level, how the Minister of Agriculture sees the sector's training, the strengthening of food sovereignty and the affirmation of national production. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u87	For an intervention, Mrs Maria do Céu Antunes has the floor. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I begin by saying a very special word for all women and all men this week that we have marked the International Women's Day.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u90	I want to start by saying that, in fact, the sector did not stop and nothing was missing at the Portuguese table. As many have mentioned before me, we increased exports of agricultural products by 5 % compared to 2019, and by 2, 5 % in the agri-food complex. But also, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have reduced imports by 4, 8 % compared to 2019. This means that Portuguese products are recognized by national and international consumers who give them preference. It means the effort of farmers, producers and workers, whom we thank every day. It means that the common agricultural policy has fulfilled its role, ensuring the resilience and security of food systems. But it also shows that the ministry has done its best: it has assured the 1600 million euros that have arrived in the sector, to ensure the treasury, the management fund and the predictability necessary to always comply with the rules of the common agricultural policy, which also informs the policy for our country. We have done, and continue to do, weekly or fortnightly meetings, whenever necessary, with associations and confederations to accompany the sector and with this we have measures that can mitigate the constraints caused by this pandemic, including the confinement, the closure of the Horeca Canal and the almost total stop of tourism. We followed up with the market situation in time so that we could act. We have ensured that credit lines and layoff measures were also available to the sector and, as a whole, we have made it possible for some EUR 600 million to be allocated to the agri-food sector, which has already been approved. And the sector hasn't stopped! We have secured EUR 111 million in advance of payment requests. We have strengthened direct payments, i.e. in EUR 85 million, by positively discriminating small agriculture and less competitive territories, and in EUR 25 million, by supporting disadvantaged areas. And yes, we anticipated the single requests: EUR 110 million in August, EUR 412 million in October and we paid the remaining EUR 368 million in December. Under the Rural Development Programme, the 2020 RDP paid EUR 512 million and EUR 150 million were for agri-environmental measures and EUR 241 million for investment. In this respect, it should also be said that the commitment rate is 100 % and the implementation rate is 76 %, clearly the best performance at the level of Portugal 2020 and also one of the best in the European ranking. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the wine sector, we paid EUR 65 million, 11 million of which were in exceptional crisis measures, 8, 3 million for distillation and 2, 4 million for storage. I remember that we have made available, in these measures, EUR 18 million, which have not been exhausted, because the sector did not really need, because it continued to grow, it continued to export...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u91	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u92	... and grew by 26 million euros, compared to the previous year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to remind you that as a Member State we have brought our request to the European Commission not to forget this sector and to follow it. We are now authorized to continue with exceptional measures and therefore we are working with the sector to draw them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the numbers speak for themselves and leave no doubt that this debate is temporary and has no relevance. In fact, after the first case of COVID-19 appeared, I had the opportunity to discuss with the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on Agriculture, everything we have done and everything I just mentioned. There were 10 auditions and we always left the guidelines for the strategy we have for the sector. I also want to tell you that it is not exactly in six minutes, in this form of urgent debate, that we will discuss whatever it is. This is a PSD way to get an agenda you don't have. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u93	Great respect for Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u94	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the next CAP...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u95	Next old lady, Mrs. Minister! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u96	... comes into force in January 2023. The years of 2021 and 2022 are a transition to the application of a new model for the common agricultural policy: active management of the entire territory based on innovative and sustainable agricultural and forestry production. We have several instruments at our disposal: the agricultural census, the strategic plan of the CAP — under construction, but already at the final stage of the first public assessment for the incorporation of contributions — the Innovation Agenda for Agriculture, the recommendations of the European Commission for Portugal, the European Ecological Pact and the other existing European and national strategies, the Government Programme. We have already made decisions based on this knowledge, particularly on direct payments, so that we can develop a historical model for an inducer model of active management of the territory, through the resumption of gradual internal convergence by 2026, with an increase to small agriculture and redistributive payment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u97	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u98	In investment, it is important to talk about the Next Generation EU, which provides the continent with EUR 312 million. For what? Oh, my God! In order to put 140 million in organic agriculture and 172 million in rural development through clear and specific measures in this regard. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u99	I would ask you once again to conclude, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u100	Madam President, let me just conclude by saying that the Recovery and Resilience Plan is not a plan of agriculture, but it integrates agriculture. Otherwise, let's see: 93 million euros...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u101	Mrs. Minister, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u102	I ask for one minute, Madam President. As I was saying, the Recovery and Resilience Plan includes EUR 93 million for innovation and technological development, EUR 47 million for the water network, EUR 17 million for water efficiency in the Alentejo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u103	Mrs. Minister, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u104	If you have not read the document, it is on pages 62, 80, 86, 87 and 89. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u105	To close this urgent debate on agriculture required by the PSD, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u106	Madam President, I welcome Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, this debate has been worth it, or for two things: firstly, we find that the Minister thinks it is time to discuss agriculture. It's message number one. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u107	The second is that the PRR does not apply to agriculture! [[It's true!Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u108	Ah! What a summation so well done! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u109	We have found out two facts that it is good for the Portuguese and the rural world to know. Those are your words, Minister! But as we will admire, if Europe itself says how proactive the Ministry of Agriculture is in its presence and political decision when it says 'we have a problem'. Why, Mrs. Minister? Because when meetings and decisions, there is no political decision on the part of the Portuguese Government. They even complain about the absence of the Portuguese Ministry of Agriculture, which leaves senior council officials in the negotiations. And don't you tell me that Mrs. Minister has been with COVID because we all had news—it has been informing us—that she has continued to work from home.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u110	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u111	Not that, we would be very supportive. With this absence, we can't be! Having said this, Mrs Minister, after hearing a number of comments from Mr Francisco Rocha in particular, we found that in the PRR, for agriculture, the huge investment in the territory, in 95 % of the territory, is EUR 93 million plus 73. Your numbers, they're not mine! “ Peanuts! », as a well-known football coach would say! This is the value given to the rural world. It's a hand full of nothing! You're not offered anything! [[PSD applause.]] We understand that. Do you know why, Minister? Indeed, more and more, as Professor Cordovil said, very connected to the party that supports V. Ex.a, when he left the working group, there is a complete disconnection of reality. Mrs. Minister, for urban-depressives, as is currently said, and for the idyllic view of agriculture that does not exist for what is the real territory, I believe that that pleases it. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] How do those television programs that completely abuse the rural world and leave us outraged—and not a word from the Minister to defend your sector! We have been accustomed to this absence, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u112	Are we going to talk about agriculture? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u113	It tells us, daily, that it is disruptive, that it is innovative. What's so disruptive about, Mrs. Minister? In the void of ideas, politics, lack of future, lack of perspective? To attack everything that moves and that is profitable in our agriculture? Is that the breakdown? Oh, my God! Let's talk about water and irrigation, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u114	It's better, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u115	EDIA assessing the need for recreation? Oh, my God! Madam Minister, can we not fail to ask you: do you also want to end with the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development (DGADR) as you did with the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary? Is that it, Mrs. Minister? It is not otherwise understood that the company of Alqueva will evaluate the national regadio unless it has any intention. More: we see a huge attack on intensive and regadious cultures, which are the ones that give you the commercial balance that the Minister here today came to bring us from which she came to be proud. But at the same time, these are the ones that want to end, when the crops of irrigation are done. Mrs. Minister, what do we have? Is it a problem of waste, misuse or lack of water? This is because what everyone says is that we have a water use problem. And what does he offer us? A National Plan of Regadios, which is more than the same and which has not even been given to the work of adjusting to the new needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u116	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u117	So that's the problem! More: He speaks to us every day in ordered territory. What do we have for the territorial registration, Minister? Migalhas, one more time! It is not enough, by far or by close, to carry out that pseudo-cadastre, Mr. Minister, because it is not even registration. It gives nothing, but that is what comes to announce us in terms of the planning of the territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u118	Read the PRR!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u119	You don't have morals to talk about the registration! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u120	Mrs. Minister, what do we have? Now the Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests ( ICNF) will resolve the issues of fires, territory, pets, animal protection... In addition, you saw how your monitoring in the Tower Bela works well... So, this is what they will do, dismantling the Ministry. I want to leave you another note.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u121	I haven't said anything like that yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u122	What about young farmers, Minister? The PSD has submitted several proposals on the progress of the CAP, support for young farmers, support for wine...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u123	That's innovative! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u124	You're very upset, sir! We got it. It's because the PS has no proposals and asks for the postponement of those who meet the sector. We got it! ... Even for fuel management tracks requested postponement. Imagine! There is a lack of confidence and a lack of proposals. [[PS protests.]] With regard to the proposals submitted by the PSD for wine, Mrs. Minister, there were support, yes, but those that remained were because they were not in accordance with the actual needs. That's what the sector tells us, Minister. There is your speech and there is the needs of the sector, which feels abandoned by you, Mrs. Minister! The messages we receive are: “When do we have a real minister? » These are the messages we receive daily!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u125	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u126	We have the abandoned rural world, I repeat, we have the rural world to abandon both public policies and the weight that the Minister has, both in the values she attaches. It is a pity that the Recovery and Resilience Plan is another missed opportunity when talking about territorial cohesion, which is an increasingly distant reality. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u127	The Bureau congratulates the Minister for Agriculture and the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs. We will move on to point 4 of the agenda, which consists of the assessment of Petition No 40 / XIV / 1. a ( Movement for the Autonomy of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management ) — By the autonomy and maintenance of the headquarters of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management, together with the Resolution Projects Nos. 651 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By the autonomy of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management, 661 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By safeguarding the autonomy of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management, 662 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government find a solution for the Idanha-a-New Higher School of Management socially and territorially just for the council, 683 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote concerted efforts to find alternative solutions that simultaneously guarantee the financial sustainability of the Polytechnic Institute of Castelo Branco and its stay in the territory of Idanha-a-Nova, thus contributing to the territorial cohesion and development of this entire region of the country, 713 / XIV / 2. ( ENP) — Administrative, pedagogical and scientific autonomy of the Higher School of Management of Idanha-a-Nova and 730 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote a solution that safeguards the educational project of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management and the Polytechnic Institute of White Castle. I believe that some of the petitioners are present, to whom I send a greeting on behalf of the Bureau. Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech. [[Pause.]] I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing by to sit down or then please go out and talk out there to create the conditions for you to be able to make your speech. [[Pause.]] Mr. Luís Monteiro, I believe you already have the conditions to intervene. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate all the petitioners who, whether or not directly from Idanha-a-Nova, have participated in a very important process in defense of this higher school. At the same time, I also wish to congratulate those and those petitioners who today, even in a difficult period of confinement and pandemic, have not ceased to follow us here in the work of the Assembly of the Republic and to whom I therefore address a very special compliment on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. The Left Block and its parliamentary group had the opportunity to meet not only with the top school direction but also with the representative organizations of the students of the Idanha-a-Nova High School of Management. It makes no sense to break with a journey of more than 30 years, which the Portuguese country and society have taken as one of the essential commitments for democratising access to education and which is precisely the extension of its support base. This extension of its support base is essentially to ensure that higher education is throughout the national, continent and islands. So, as you were saying, Madam President, it makes no sense to break this logic. The pre-announcement of the closure of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management would indeed be a danger not only to the course of this policy, but also to the effort of tens of teachers, researchers and hundreds of students who, during all these years, have raised an important pole of knowledge and critical spirit in Idanha-a-Nova and throughout the region, as it is well known. So what we need today is, firstly, to challenge this pre-announcement, secondly, to defend the path, the trajectory and also the heritage of knowledge that the High School of Management of Idanha-a-Nova has built over these years, and, thirdly, to guarantee — that, yes, it must also be the role of the House of Democracy, the Assembly of the Republic — that there are the necessary instruments not only for a thorough financing of political education in Portugal and of the Higher School of Management of Idan-a-Nova, in particular, but also of the instruments necessary for the continuation of the good work they have been developing. The higher schools and the higher political institutes, if I may, Madam President, only in a final comment, have played an essential role in combating desertification in low-density territories. The Idanha-a-Nova High School of Management is no exception to this rule is precisely the guarantee that it makes sense. Therefore, once again, we cannot continue to have a set of debates, all of which are relevant, in the Assembly of the Republic, about the importance of investment in public services, a territorial economy that responds to the needs of people, an economy based on knowledge and the guarantee of the valorization of critical mass within the country and then, at the same time, leave aside the importance of investment in higher education and, in this particular case, in political higher education. Therefore, for all these reasons, Madam President, the Left Block has introduced a draft resolution in the Assembly of the Republic which rightly accompanies this petition. We are sure that today we leave here with a democratic, inclusive and very important response for the entire academic community of the Idanha-a-Nova High School of Management, which, once again, I use to greet. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u129	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u130	Mr President, first of all, the PCP welcomes the Movement for Self-Government of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management, which brought to the Assembly of the Republic a petition in defense of the administrative, pedagogical and scientific autonomy of this higher school and for the maintenance of its headquarters in Idanha-a-Nova. When much is said about the need to combat inequalities between regions and promote territorial cohesion, here is a good example to defend a higher school that greatly contributes to the development of the region in which it is inserted. In fact, this was one of the objectives that was present in its creation almost 30 years ago. However, we find that the speech does not correspond to the practice and that, despite the call for regional development, in the field, the measures are in the exact opposite direction, of de-investment and greater territorial inequalities. The decision to lose the headquarters of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management and the loss of its autonomy, following the restructuring process of the Polytechnic Institute of Castelo Branco, results from the government's imposition of higher education institutions in financial imbalance with the aim of reducing expenditure. This is when the solution is not in the restriction and imposition of constraints but, rather, in the appropriate financial allocation to the institution, which responds to its needs. It is good to say that the situation of financial imbalance in this political institute stems from the chronic subordination to which it has been subject in recent years, by the political option of successive governments. Every year, the Polytechnic Institute is confronted with insufficient funds to cover the current expenditure of the last months of each budget year, and there is invariably a need for additional funding for the payment of salaries of teachers and employees. It is neither fair nor correct that the Government should hold the political institute responsible for its sub-financing when the money transferred to the State budget does not even cover current expenditure. It is not fair for the government to hold the institute responsible for its political options, which is above the autonomy of higher education institutions. Nor does it make sense that, on the one hand, the Government claims to defend territorial decentralization and, on the other hand, that the measures it adopts go in exactly the opposite direction, of concentration, contributing to the creation of more inequalities and asymmetries between territories. And when the question arises of the need for the extension of the public network of higher education institutions and to contribute to the harmonious and balanced development of the territories and greater proximity, the Government is at a counter-cyclical stage, imposing measures to reduce supply, in particular in a region of the interior, making it clear that what determines its political options for this territory is not their appreciation and development. The CFP intended to accompany this petition with a draft resolution expressing a set of recommendations that we consider necessary at this time. We are in solidarity with the claim expressed in the petition, we accompany it and we defend that the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management maintains its administrative, pedagogical and scientific autonomy, as well as its headquarters in Idanha-a-Nova. We therefore recommend that the Government take the necessary measures to ensure the structural financial rebalancing of the Polytechnic Institute in Castelo Branco through its appropriate financing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u131	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the more than 5,500 subscribers of this petition — some of whom are here, in representation — who, as explained here, ask Parliament to intercede with the Government to maintain the headquarters of the Higher School of Management of the Polytechnic Institute of White Castle in Idanha-a-Nova, with pedagogical, administrative and scientific autonomy. The story is relatively easy to explain. In 2019, the General Council of this Polytechnic Institute initiated a process of reorganization, it is assumed that in order to have a more efficient structure of this organization, and, to be said, it has legitimacy and autonomy to do so under the RJIES (the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions ). But since this reorganization is intended to eliminate organic units, to change designations, to change headquarters and to change the training offer, it is necessary to allow protection. In particular, this reorganization goes from six to four schools and ends up at the headquarters of the High School of Management, which currently exists in Idanha-a-Nova. On the question that the CDS addressed to Mr. Minister even last year, the Government replied that by the end of 2020 it had indeed not received an official note of any such request. In fact, this happens because only on 10 February, already this year, are the new statutes, which create these four new schools, and only at that time has been sent to Minister Manuel Heitor, for consideration, the process which, to which we know, because we have no better information, has not yet been approved. at the same time, at the end of February, the municipal assembly, at the initiative of the local socialist bench, but also by unanimity of the representation of the municipal assembly, voted a motion for the stay in Idanha-a-Nova of the future Higher School of Informatics and Management. Therefore, what is at stake right now is a set of principles that must be balanced. On the one hand, there is indeed the autonomy of the institution to efficiently manage its organic units and decide for the most appropriate training offer to the geography in which it is located, to the teaching body it has and to the budget it also has. But, on the other hand, and equally important, it is necessary to carry out the mission of the political institutes, which implies a commitment to territorial cohesion and the development, as has already been said, of the low-density territories. And, in this case, in a population of 8,000 people, more, less, there are 500 young people who attend this school, and this is undeniably relevant, both for economic development and for local social development and cannot and should not be ignored. Knowing that Minister Manuel Heitor is sensitive to the question of the interior — he even has a policy that we have here to answer, which promotes an increase in vacancies in the interior institutions, by reducing the waves of the coastline — and also knowing, by letter in response to the question from the CDS, that Minister Manuel Heitor, or someone by him, states that, and I quote, "the Government considers that territorial cohesion corresponds to a fundamental objective of territorial development and constitutes one of the essential factors in promoting the competitiveness of the business fabric and in the attractiveness of the territory and therefore is fundamental to reducing disparities between the regions", knowing that this is the understanding that the ministry has this situation—because this answer has to do with a question about Idanha-a-Nova— seems to be more or less quiet what the petition wants. What the CDS then recommends is that the Minister be consistent with this statement and seek to arbitrate this situation by continuing with the Polytechnic Institute in Castelo Branco, on the one hand, to maintain the headquarters of the higher school in Idanha-a-Nova and, equally important, to develop and maintain an adequate offer of courses. This is to find a just solution for the institution, but above all, that enhances local development, for the benefit of people who live and study in Idanha-a-Nova.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u133	For an intervention, Mrs Claúdia André, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I congratulate the signatories who signed the petition claiming for the autonomy and headquarters of the Higher School of Management of Idanha-a-Nova, who was born by the hand of the, then, Prime Minister Aníbal Cavaco Silva and was restructured by decree of Prime Minister Antonio Guterres. In 1990 several missions were assigned to the High School of Technology and Management, in particular the administration of specialization courses of business frameworks, the implementation of research projects implemented in cooperation with the business community, technical support to companies and institutions, assistance and guidance for their industrial development. These were some of the premises that strengthened the project « Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management », a school created to provide the entire region of services that developed companies, entities and institutions. Indeed, the economic and social fabric of the region has benefited from its influence. The High School of Management of Idanha-a-Nova is thus assumed as an engine for growth and economic development and as a fixation factor in the area of the working-age population, thus fulfilling one of the functions expected of higher education institutions, i.e. equipping the territories and their agents with tools and knowledge through continuous training, professional qualification, transfer of knowledge to businesses, institutions and society, thus setting population and economic activities. We praise the Polytechnic Institute of White Castle for all the work that has been done over these years, fighting hard for this design to take place in the district. The PSD understands the need for its restructuring, driven by the new scientific and academic challenges and the imposition that the current government proposed as a currency for the exchange of the financial reinforcement needed to balance the institution. at a time when the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education bets on « spatial democratization», we urge him to place his feet on earth, which reaches the most impoverished territories and find solutions that simultaneously guarantee the financial sustainability and updating of the Polytechnic Institute of White Castle, as well as the maintenance of autonomy and stay in Idanha-a-Nova of the headquarters of the Higher School of Management, thus contributing to the territorial cohesion and development of this entire region of the country. The district needs the Polytechnic Institute of White Castle, its synergies, its services, its knowledge, to enhance the entire territory. However, the system works in symbiosis: the Polytechnic Institute of White Castle also needs the region and it will be as strong as it appears. We are in time to unite, to add, to reemerge, to strengthen the interior of the country and the country. We cannot give up on the difficulties, we need qualified employment, consistent and innovative companies to set population, and the institutions of higher education will be crucial in order to achieve this. Thus, the School of Management of Idanha-a-Nova, the Polytechnic Institute of White Castle and the University of Beira Interior will be crucial for the development of the district of Castelo Branco, the interior and the whole country. Demonstrated the broad political consensus on the issues of headquarters and autonomy of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management, starting from the six initiatives brought to the discussion today, which we will all follow, we must build bridges of understanding, finding solutions that are balanced and that serve the territory, our young people, our populations, our companies, because, yes, serving the interior of the country is also serving the whole country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u135	Mr Mariana Silva, from the Green Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Higher education institutions, particularly polytechnics, have been experiencing great difficulties as a result of successive disinvestment on the part of several governments, as is the case with the polytechnics of Castelo Branco, Santarém and Tomar. In November 2019 it was made public that these three institutions would have serious financial difficulties, in order of the EUR six million, to pay wages, recurring situation in recent years, requiring, for this reason, the injection of extraordinary reinforcements. At the end of 2019, each of these three institutions received, in an extraordinary way, two million euros. On the other hand, the Government, instead of making available the appropriate financial allocation to these institutions from the State budget, to complete the chronic underfinancing, imposed the financial restructuring of these policies through measures to reduce expenditure and increase revenue. In December 2019, the General Council of the Polytechnic Institute of White Castle approved a plan for the restructuring of the institution. Subsequently, on 8 July, this same council decided that this organizational restructuring will be advocated in the proposal submitted by the President of the Polytechnic Institute of Castelo Branco, which aims to establish nine departments, transversal to the whole institution, and the association of these in four new organic units. That is, it is reduced to four of the current six schools. in this restructuring, the High School of Management of Idanha-a-Nova loses its headquarters in that municipality, passing it into the space of the Higher School of Education, and as such will also lose its autonomy. The deliberations of the General Council of the Polytechnic Institute of Castelo Branco prompted the challenge of the school community and of the population of Idanha-a-Nova, which anticipated, in the loss of autonomy and headquarters of this school, the announcement for the reduction of courses and the closure of this higher school, which was created by Decree-Law No 153 / 97 of 20 June, integrated into the Polytechnic Institute of Castelo Branco and equipped with administrative, pedagogical and scientific autonomy. The High School of Management of Idanha-a-Nova, located in this municipality of Raiano and of low density, has made an important contribution to combat regional asymmetries. It is one of the main inducers of the local economy, because it clearly contributes to the creation of wealth and employment, with benefits in the sectors of restoration, housing, trade, among others. The decision reverses the policies that have been announced by the Government for the enhancement of the interior and low density territories, such as Idanha-a-Nova, a rural base municipality, with an ageing and impoverished population. In the academic year 2019 / 2020 entered the upper school 252 new students, being attended by about 600 students. Considering the petition for the autonomy and maintenance of the headquarters of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management — whose petitioners The Greens take advantage of to welcome, saying that we accompany the concerns expressed by this initiative—, we state that the higher school should maintain its headquarters in Idanha-a-Nova and its autonomy, in order to avoid the loss of courses and the closing of the school, since it has been fundamental to the municipality, strengthening and dynifying the local economy and contributing to the defeat of regional asymmetries. To this end it is necessary to ensure the structural financial rebalancing of the Polytechnic Institute of Castelo Branco, through its appropriate financing, to ensure its administrative, pedagogical and scientific autonomy and to maintain the headquarters of their school.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u137	For an intervention, because the PS also presents a draft resolution, which I have not mentioned recently, Mr Nuno Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet the petitioners of the movement for the autonomy of the High School of Management of Idanha-a-Nova, whose representatives honor us today with their presence. Higher education institutions play a fundamental role in the interior, as they allow young people to be attracted, create critical mass and generate knowledge. In recent years, as a result of the quality of the universities and the politics of the interior and public policies that have been adopted and led by Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education Manuel Heitor, the number of students enrolled in the interior of the country has increased 11% since 2015 and the weight of foreign students has increased significantly. The Polytechnic Institute of White Castle has nearly tripled this value since 2015. The White Castle Polytechnic and its schools, including that of Idanha-a-Nova, have played a key role in territorial cohesion. This is a very positive work which must be encouraged, supported and continued. But territorial cohesion is also intraregional. The decision to have been located, since 1991, the headquarters of a high school in Idanha-a-Nova, the ESGIN (Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management ), has allowed to attract, fix and train young people, from Portugal and abroad, in a strongly aged municipality located within the interior. This is a council that has been doing a very worthy work of affirmation on several fronts: the attraction of investment and of knowledge poles, social policies, education and economic valorization of the council, such as in agri-food, tourism or even in the organization of international projection events. It is also in this context that the Idanha High School has contributed to the economy and to the life of this council and the Idanese. However, within the framework of the autonomy of higher education institutions, which is constitutionally consecrated, the General Council of the Polytechnic Institute of Castelo Branco ( IPCB ) approved a restructuring that provides for the reduction of the current six higher schools to four new schools. However, while welcoming the very positive work that the White Castle Polytechnic and its Higher School of Management of Idanha-a-Nova have been doing for the benefit of the municipalities and the region in which they are inserted, it is considered that the decentralization of educational offers based on convergent strategies and in a network work can further project the IPCB and its schools. It is therefore in this context that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group recommends to the Government that, in the context of the review process of the statutes of the Polytechnic Institute of Castelo Branco, the following should be guaranteed: firstly, the maintenance of the intensity of the current training offer, either in Castelo Branco, or in Idanha-a-Nova ; and secondly, in each of these municipalities, Castelo Branco and Idanha-a-Nova, the existence of permanent structures for technical and administrative support to the activities of the Institute and the organizational units located there, including the functioning of the respective management bodies. In short, it is recommended, in this draft resolution, that a solution be adopted which safeguards the educational project of the Higher School of Management of Idanha-a-Nova and the Polytechnic Institute of White Castle, in favour of a more cohesive country and a stronger interior. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u139	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by welcoming the Movement for the Self-Government of the Higher School of Management of Idanha-a-Nova, which brings us this petition, following the decision taken by the General Council of the Polytechnic Institute of White Castle, for the restructuring of this same institution. This is what we are discussing and should be discussed: this restructuring that aims to move from six to four schools and also that the Idanha-a-Nova High School no longer has institutional headquarters precisely in this location, passing the tea at Castelo Branco. They consider—and well! — the petitioners concerned to lose their seat in the locality and also their administrative, pedagogical and scientific autonomy. In fact, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we must not forget the important role that higher education plays in the strategic development of the territories, in the collection of human capital, in the interconnection with economic and social sectors, in the implementation of social and business innovation policies or in the construction of knowledge applied to the problems of the regions. Obviously, this reality is more pressing in low-density localities, where the existence of political or university courses has a much more significant impact on local development and economy. A higher education that is concentrated only in urban centres or more populated centres will also create difficulties of access to students, entail additional costs of accommodation and transport and cause greater risk of depopulation of territories already, by itself, fragile. In the specific case we discussed, this school is located in the heart of the country, in a town with an ageing population and has recorded the loss of inhabitants over the past few years. As it is known, the municipality has also sought to promote, in cooperation with the institution, the establishment of human capital and the strengthening of the link of school to the community through strong interinstitutional collaboration, also supporting students and teachers. Therefore, by strengthening this role of interinstitutional collaboration, it seems to us essential that this investment be maintained, which aims, in essence, to involve the Ministry of Higher Education in order to ensure the continuity of this training offer in this territory. In conjunction with the institution, a strategic plan should be guaranteed to find the best solutions for both the sustainability of the institution and the continuity of this training offer in Idanha-a-Nova.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u141	For an intervention, Mrs Cláudia André of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to convey a compliment to my fellow citizens, who have moved from Idanha-a-Nova to Lisbon to represent the 5578 petitioners who, say, are about 57 % of the Iranian population. What if 57% of the population in Lisbon signed a petition? See what would be the reason for Lisbon to meet in a consensus of 57% of its population. Therefore, I respect the representatives of the petitioners and I respect the 5578 people who have signed the petition. We left here with a renewed hope, since it was consensual that we all found in ESGIN the strength of Idanha, the dynamism of the region and the district of Castelo Branco. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u143	For an intervention, Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating them and by saying that it seems obvious that all the political forces in this House have built draft resolutions which themselves have a very clear desire to find a solution that is absolutely fair and balanced. It is this balance that we want to find between the appreciation of higher education, the respect for the autonomy of its institutions, enshrined in the legal regime, the action for values and the participation they have in the life of the local communities where they are inserted, and territorial cohesion, with the appreciation of the interior, ensuring the promotion of an integrated approach of the territories, their attractiveness, the competitiveness of the economic fabric and, moreover, the retention of social and human capital through the promotion of knowledge, fixing young people. We have written this draft resolution to ensure a territorially just solution and a socially more cohesive country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u145	Thus, we conclude the assessment of Petition No. 40 / XIV / 1. the, together with Resolution Projects Nos 651 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 661 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 662 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 683 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 713 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) and 730 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ). We move on to the next point on the agenda, with the appreciation of Petition 32 / XIV / 1. a ( League of Friends of the Douro World Heritage ) — By the complete requalification and reopening of the Douro Line ( Ermesinde-Barca de Alva ) and subsequent connection to Salamanca, together with Resolution Projects Nos. 822 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By requalifying the whole Douro Line ( Ermesinde-Barca de Alva and subsequent connection to Salamanca ), 834 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Requalification and operation of the Douro Line ( Ermesinde-Barca d’ Alva ) and subsequent connection to Salamanca, 843 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the modernization and electrification of the Douro line to Barca d’ Alva and the replacement of its connection with the Spanish railway network, 847 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By requalification and reopening of the Douro Line to Barca d’ Alva and restoration of international rail connection and 986 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — In defense of the Douro Line and by the reaction of the crowds. For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor. I did not greet the petitioners, on behalf of the Bureau, because I do not think anyone of this group of petitioners is present. Mrs. Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, the Left Block Parliamentary Group wants to leave a compliment and a greeting to the League of Friends of the World Heritage and to the nearly 14,000 petitioners who allow us to return to this important issue. The Douro Line extends over 190 km from Ermesinde to Barca d’ Alva, where in time there was an international link to the Spanish railway network. The closure of this international link occurred in 1985 and the launch between Pocinho and Barca d’Alva closed in 1988. Walking through a landscape immortalized in the literature by Eça de Queiros, in the City and the Mountains, this is one of the railway lines of our country that has suffered most with the abandonment of decades to which the railway has been voted. In fact, as early as April 2019, when the Left Block presented its national railway plan, we advocated exactly the full rehabilitation of the line between Porto and Barca d’Alva-Fuentes de Oñoro. After various efforts by civil society, for years, to reverse this error, year after year, governments have been excluding this project from investment plans. In the Douro Line report, Troço Ermesinde-Barca d’ Alva and Connection to Salamanca, made by the infrastructures of Portugal, the negative impacts of the closure of the international line are evident, for example in the increase in more than 49 % of the transport times between Pocinho and Vila Franca de Naves, as well as the impact on tourism throughout the region. The extinction of the crowds — Tua, Flavour, Corgo and Thamega — and the lack of electrification and requalification of the Douro Line are one of the reasons for the scarce supply of time, which aggravates the factors that compete for an internalization forced by the lack of this public investment. And also, the rolling material of the Douro Line lacks an almost complete review. The complaints, in winter, are lack of heating, which causes very great thermal discomfort, but security issues have also been raised, since there are doors that do not close and others that open during travel. The problems of reducing public investment and obsession by privatization and closure of services, political options that have been the brand image of the last governments in recent decades, have contributed to the visible abandonment of the country's interior, generating demographic crises and manifestly avoidable depopulation in many cases. The result is a more unequal country with less territorial cohesion. in the same way, the growing disinvestment in rail transport, today evidenced by the gradual degradation of the railway line and by the large deficiencies in rail connections between several regions of the country, is one of the major examples of this attack made to many populations, but above all to the populations living inside. thus results in a less prepared country to meet the challenge of climate change, because rail represents the most sustainable mobility option. These are not new situations, but have not yet seen a solution and it is essential to correct this delay of decades. In addition to being an alternative to the present paradigm of the use of individual transport, contributing to the reduction of costs for populations and to the reduction of carbon emissions, the bet on collective transport through investment in the development of the Douro Line continues to be a fundamental condition to provide greater mobility, greater territorial cohesion and greater economic development in the region. Bring them to the mountains and the High Douro have waited too many years for this line to be re-qualified to come to a conclusion. With the classification of the High Douro Vinhateiro as a World Heritage Site, the Douro Line, an integral and inseparable part of the Vinhateira landscape, must correspond to this role and its abandonment is not acceptable. We recognize that there is beginning to be signs of a more turned policy for the railway, that there are some important advances, but it is undeniable that we still have levels of execution below what is necessary and the path to travel has decades of delay. That is why, today, we present this project and will accompany all projects that are going to value the Douro Line and the North region. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u147	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would like to welcome all the petitioners and the League of Friends of the World Heritage, which today allow us to discuss this issue in plenary — the Douro Line — which carries with us a historic landmark in our railway heritage and also the memories of Portugal whose preservation can also be done through the political decisions taken in this House. Today, that's what we're trying to do here. Therefore, the NAP presents itself with a recommendation in this regard. We speak of a line which, if used primarily for commercial purposes in the past, was clearly making another sense and increasingly important in terms of mobility, access to goods and services and the fight against isolation of populations. The closure of this international link in 1985 and of the launch between Pocinho and Barca d’Alva in 1988 resulted in a growing gap between regions and a backward regional development. The cost of reopening the Douro Line to the border implies an estimated investment between EUR 43 million and EUR 163 million, knowing that on the part of Brussels there has already been a manifestation of interest in sharing these same works, as it is also evident, in view of the importance that rail assumes in environmental, mobility and social policies. This same line received, on the Spanish side, the title of « Good of National Interest with Category of Monument », but in Portugal, unfortunately, there are several scenarios of abandonment and political disrepair that resulted in the degradation of the railway heritage of the Douro. We're talking, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, 191 km from the Douro Line which are fundamental to both territorial cohesion and support for the rural world, which, of course, cannot be just concepts in the role. The petition we have discussed expresses the will of citizens and citizens, which has been repeatedly expressed over the past few years. In fact, over five petitions have been made over the past 10 years in a total of some 25 000 signatures. We do not seem to need further proof of the public will on this matter. It is more than time for the government to make efforts to re-qualify and reopen the Douro Line. The NAP naturally accompanies the public will of the recovery and reopening of this historical line and therefore we present a proposal for a recommendation for its re-qualification, operation and subsequent link to Salamanca. We want the Government to re-qualify and re-qualify the rolling stock, to implement the full electrification of the line and to work with the Spanish Government for the railway connection to Salamanca. As we have come to defend, it is essential to accelerate the National Plan of Railway, which defends the reopening with electrified line of the Pocinho-Barca de Alva, thus combining its reactivation as a cross-border connection. What we regret is that only one study is planned in the Investment Programme for the year 2030. The railway in our country follows many years of delay and any studies should be accelerated with a view to its implementation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u149	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u150	I shall conclude, Madam President. It is essential to strengthen investment in rail as a response to climate change and as a measure to revitalize the interior and promote territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u151	For an intervention, Mr Luís Leite Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would, of course, like to begin by welcoming the 13 888 petitioners who ask the Government to completely requalify and reopen the Douro Line between Ermesinde and Barca D’ Alva and the subsequent link to Salamanca. And in particular, I want to greet the League of Friends of the World Heritage Douro, in defense of a project that is important not only for the Douro but also for the North and the Country. This petition and the draft resolutions accompanying it have motives that are too well known. Some of them have already been mentioned here, but I would like to remind you of the recent history of these reasons. In 2017, the social communication reported a study of the infrastructures of Portugal which, in its main conclusions, pointed to three essential ideas: first, it demystified the alleged technical inadequacy of the way to the circulation of heavy goods compositions — this was an argument that for decades had allowed REFER ( National Railway Network) to justify non-intervention on the way and its impossibility regarding the connection to Europe. A second argument has to do with the natural and unmistakable link between Porto de Leixões and the logistics platforms that are around it and that will allow the North and a part of the country to connect to Europe. A third argument has to do with the use of regional development, particularly in terms of tourism development, with the connection of four sites classified as world heritage, starting with Porto, passing through Guimarães and Douro and ending up in Coa. Finally, an argument of great importance has to do with the EUR 473 million that are planned for its rehabilitation. These EUR 473 million cost less than four Metro stations in Lisbon or in Porto, and therefore this is an argument of weight. In addition, in 2018, the European Union also reported on another study showing that the cross-border link between the Douro was one of the 48 projects with the greatest potential throughout Europe, of the 365 students, to be rehabilitated for the benefit of the European rail network, regional development dynamics and, finally, the fight against climate change itself. Well, what's happened since then? Unfortunately, the Government has systematically ignored these studies and the recommendations associated with them. Minister Pedro Marques, of bad memory, began to hide and exclude this bond from the 2030 NIP ( National Investment Programme 2030 ). Then, under the pressure of this Parliament, this proposal was included in the NIP, but what is true is that even today this link or reopening and requalification does not include the priorities of the National Investment Programme 2030. It is there for the Greek calendars without an estimate of its implementation and has therefore been forgotten in particular of the infrastructures of Portugal. There is no doubt that the current direction of the infrastructure of Portugal has been the biggest obstacle, I would say even the greatest enemy of the reopening and requalification of this railway connection. In addition, in the recent presentations that have been made, we have noticed, exactly, this disinterest and this lack of commitment that go against the very manifestation of interest that the Minister of Infrastructure and the Government have at other times taken. The PSD will, of course, enable all the draft resolutions that are currently under discussion in this plenary and recalls that, more than ensuring that this will be a priority, either above all three things: speed up the electrical project between the Canaveses Marco and the Pesso da Régua ; that competitions are already launched for the development of projects between Régua and Pocinho and between Pocinho and Barca d’ Alva ; and, above all, a political signal of willingness to negotiate with the Spanish Government and take advantage of the availability of the European Union to finance this project. Only in this way can we believe that, between the official discourse and the implementation of the project, there really is a perfect symbiosis, made in the name of the interests of the country and the region. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u153	I have the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from the PCP, we want to address from here a greeting to the nearly 14 000 people who have signed this petition for the complete re-qualification and reopening of the Douro Line and we also want to greet the people of Upper Douro who, over these decades, have been confronted with dismantling and de-investment in this rail network — I say this network, I do not say only this line, because in the railway in the North of the country there has been a loud disinvestment over the decades, which the CFP has been complaining about. I wanted to draw your attention to the following passages: « As the Portuguese Communist Party has repeatedly defended, the regional railways taste, Tua, Corgo and Thamega and the section of the Pocinho-Barca D’Alva Douro Line are of interest to the people and the region. Regional development, because of the structural and inductive role of rail transport, will not be possible without the maintenance of rail infrastructure, its development and modernisation, including by the closure of regional rail mesh and connection to Spain. The maintenance of rail transport is consistent with the necessary national policy to alleviate regional inequalities and is integrated into the regional development guidelines and policies of the European communities themselves to combat the human desertification of rural regions. We cannot accept as guiding criteria the strategy of the country's railway policy the privatization of profitable lines and the closure of deficits. We cannot accept the continuation of a political practice which, by not taking forward its conceptions in matters of rail transport, conceals its real objectives from the people". Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the words just heard were written in this House in 1991 by my comrade Mr Agostinho Lopes of the CFP. Thirty years later it is important to remember what was the action of dismantling and degradation of the railway, particularly in this region of the country. For tens of years, successive governments have promoted systematic policies of degradation and de-investment in the rail network, especially in railway links serving the interior populations. The country was particularly scourged by right-wing policy, with emphasis on PSD governments, because we were in full cavaquism in 1991, now 30 years ago, when the PCP alerted to this situation, but also those of the PS and those of the PS-PSD central block, always with the support of the CDS, where the closure of 1025 km of national railway lines, of which a total of 320 km in sections of the Douro, Tua, Corgo and Thamega lines, and in the integral closure of the Sabor Line was decided. In just two governments, in the four years 1988-1992, the PSD closed within the Country 860 km of lines. What is required today is that, for the River or Pocinho, progress, from now on, with the projects and processes leading to the construction undertaking with electrification. But, of course, we must reverse the abandonment to which the Douro Line has been voted in its final section, with new intervention horizons, breaking with wrong policies, betting on modernization, including the electrification of the Pocinho-Barca D’ Alva, and through the recovery or reactivation of railway lines that flow from the Douro Line, namely the Lines of the Thamega and the Corgo. The intervention of modernization of the Pocinho-Barca D’ Alva section extends the attraction and use of the existing railway corridor, currently abandoned, profitability of the uniform use of rolling material of electric traction and power to the cross-border corridor side of the Douro Line. The proposal from the CFP is in the vote and we will, of course, follow up all the proposals so that, in particular, we can develop concrete work. Recently, the CFP has already questioned the Government on this subject, in particular on the cross-border link to Salamanca and official contacts with the Spanish State. The government tells us that there is nothing to do, that it is excused to think about it because Spain does not want to know and nothing will do. From now on, it is important not to abandon this issue and to insist on this proposal in official and diplomatic contacts. But we ask: since when does it make sense that investment in the Douro Line is only made if it has a connection to Spain? The reactivation of the mining activity of the territory of the municipality of Torre Moncorvo, also integrating the transport of mineral by rail, but also the investment in the development of the corresponding industrial row...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u155	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u156	I will finish, Madam President. It is also important to highlight the tourist potential of the landscape beauty of the railway corridor, world heritage of UNESCO, the High Douro Vinhateiro and the rock art of Foz Côa. The value of the investment is fully justified. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the biggest enemy of this investment — and with this end, Madam President — is not the infrastructure of Portugal, it is the right policy. While we are here, the benefactors are being granted by the infrastructures of Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u157	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : After more than three decades of dismemberment, de-investment and abandonment of the National Railway Network, closure of hundreds of kilometres of railway and extinction, reduction or privatization of services associated with it, both in the transport of goods and passengers, it is necessary to confirm a new phase of investment in the railway, for which The Greens have made an undeniable contribution, such as a locomotive to be pulled by the transport policy, so that it jumps from the concrete to sit in the steel of the wagons of the future. Railway must be the central axis of transport and mobility policy and a structural and fundamental factor for the cohesion of continental territory, for the development of the country and for the fight against climate change. To achieve these purposes there are two fundamental assumptions. The first is that the planning and programming of railway interventions are supported by a clear and widely participated strategy rather than by rough actions and investments. This is the role to be played by the National Railway Plan, the preparation of which should have already begun, as stated in the State Budget for 2021. The second is that the investments and the implementation of the works cannot continue to advance at the speed of a regional train. It is urgent to reach high-speed rhythms. Only in this way will the objective of the ‘return of the train to all district capital’ be met and effective decarbonisation be ensured. For this purpose, it will be necessary to direct the investment so that the rail mesh spreads into the interior, building new lines or rehabilitating abandoned ones, to attract reproductive investment and, with it, the employment and fixing of populations in these areas, unpopulated and aged. The Douro Line and its four metric lanes (Sabor, Tua, Corgo, Thamega ) facilitated access to large urban centers, particularly the Port, with areas of the country with a very complex orography, when not impenetrable, as was the Tua Valley. The train broke the isolation, fixed people and assumed an undeniable role in the economic development of the Trás-os-Montes and the Upper Douro regions. The reactivation of the section of the Douro Line, from Pocinho to Barca d’ Alva, of its service beyond borders, the rehabilitation, modernization and electrification of the Douro Line throughout its course and its articulation with its plebis have had a constant presence, in the Assembly of the Republic, through the Greens. Tens of initiatives, including proposals in the State budgets, which started in 2006, have been repeated over the years. Therefore, The Greens greet the signatories of Petition No. 32 / XIV / 1. a — By the complete requalification and reopening of the Douro Line ( Ermesinde-Barca de Alva ) and subsequent connection to Salamanca, in its first two subscribers, the League of Friends of the Douro World Heritage and the Foundation of the Douro Museum, such entities who know the efforts of the Greens, alongside UNESCO, in defense of the classification of the Upper Douro Vinhateiro, to save the Vale and the Line of Tua, the Douro Line, the Corgo Line, the Rivera to Vila Real, and the Line of the Themaga, from Delivery to Amarante. It is emphasized that the Portuguese State has obligations in the preservation of the Douro Line and its plebiscites, as a result of the commitments undertaken with UNESCO. The strategy of the agony of the Douro Line and the death sentence of the pleps was premeditated, with the argument of the lack of passengers, who were "stricken" for road transport, with change of hours, constant breakdowns, removals of services. But still there were passengers, even because there were villages and places that had no other alternative, such as the Alvations of the Corgo. And there was no shortage of tourists! But the street lobby spoke louder. With this initiative, The Greens want to ensure, within the framework of the National Railway Plan: the modernization of the Douro Line to Pocinho and from there to Barca d’Alva; an assessment of the safety of the railway bridge pillars at the mouth of the Tua River; the rehabilitation and reopening of the blouses of the Corgo and the Thamega Lines; the evaluation of the reactivation of the flavor branch; a solution to reconnect Mirandela and Bragança by railway to the Douro Line; the acquisition of the electrical traction material suitable for the Douro Line and the reopening of the international railway link to Salamanca and its connection to the centre of Europe. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u159	Mr Santinho Pacheco, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u160	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Douro Line, Pocinho-Barca d’ Alva until Salamanca, more than a duriense borough of Figueira de Castelo Rodrigo and Foz Côa, is a regional ambition that began soon after its closure in 1987, one of the governments of Prof. Cavaco Silva, a precise century after its inauguration. The 20 years of abandonment were remembered with an ambitious program in Barca d’Alva on December 9, 2007. Autarcas, politicians, academics, the presidents of the CCDR-N (Northern Regional Development and Coordination Commission ) and the Diputación de Salamanca, talked about history and tourism, transport and regional development and left Barca d’Alva, not only with ambition but with the certainty that reopening the section would be a reality. It's been 14 years and nothing. The Douro Line is international and the border connection / Salamanca is almost triple from the distance of Barca d’ Alva to Pocinho. The investment on the Spanish side is much greater than that on the Portuguese side. Spain has never created illusions about this project, one of the poorest and most impoverished regions of Castillay León. The problem is not bilateral, therefore, only Portuguese. This is the only realistic conclusion we can draw. Miguel Cadilhe stated at this meeting: « Do not ask me to justify the Douro Line, Pocinho-Barca d’ Alva, by the economy. Do not keep on seeking. ” I dare say precisely the opposite. The entire section is located in the Guard district, but only a small part is located in the CIM Beiras and Serra da Estrela ( Intermunicipal Community of the Borders and Serra da Estrela ). The CIM, in the public discussion of the PRR, does not refer to the Douro Line in its priorities. For years we have claimed a government decision and the inclusion of the project on the agendas of the Iberian summits. So far, it's 34 years of silence. If all this fails, we will not wait for « when the chickens have teeth ». The interior has no more time for illusions. We do not deal with a state that does not even allow it to do so. The Douro Line is justified by the economy. The alternative idea is to find regional partners for the investment and management of Pocinho-Barca d’ Alva, with other components of Douro tourism, with the authorities and the Côa Museum. I welcome the petitioners, the League of Friends of the Douro and its representatives, as well as the draft resolutions of the various parties, which we will be accompanying in this Parliament. We're alive! The political initiative is not enough, but it helps a lot. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u161	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Lopes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Douro Line is a hymn to man's initiative and well-being. To build, 100 years ago, a railway line between Porto and Barca d’ Alva, with 233 km, 26 tunnels and 30 bridges, without the tenological means that exist today and also with the poor financial availability of the height is work! This is what it has shown, above all, the political will to develop the interior of the country. Today, the country's new railway map binds all district capitals — all! — less than two north interiors: Vila Real and Bragança. But this piece of territory, including the Douro, continues to have the greatest wealth among its nations. People who, over the years, have been able to build and maintain a beautiful and unique landscape in the world, which gives them the classification of Human Heritage. With the construction of dams and the permission to navigate the Douro River, the development of tourism, practiced by many operators, has seen a significant growth for the development of this territory. This railway line, installed next to the river bed, is umbilically linked to the heart of the production of the Port Wine, to the beauty of the landscape marked by the vineyards in socalcos of the oldest demarcated wine region in the world. It is important to recognize the Douro region as an opportunity space for residents and national and foreign tourists, and it must still be considered as a route of connection to Spain and Europe and thus constitute an entry gate in Portugal. All this justifies the retraining of the route, the modernization of equipment, the connection to Spain and the construction of solutions for the connection to the rest of the territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u163	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u164	Finally, Madam President, I would like to greet the CIM's authorships, because this is also a struggle with them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u165	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners « By the complete re-qualification and reopening of the Douro Line », who have as first subscribers the League of Friends of the World Heritage Douro and the Foundation of the Douro Museum and which is supported by 13 888 signatures of people who defend the same cause. The historical Douro Line, already with a century and a half history, was developed in order to allow commercial expansion into the interior of the Iberian Peninsula. Its international connection, as has been mentioned several times in this debate, was closed in 1985, in a movement which, in fact, extended across several lines and throughout the country, closing the railway. He lived then in the 1980s, and continued to expand throughout the 1990s and also from the year 2000 onwards, in a lack of bet on the railway to bet on the road. Simplifying: there were here 20 or 30 years when railways were closed and highways were built. Now we live again the time of the railway, in fact using the words of Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, who said: "The time of the highways is over and again the time of the railway". I remember, at the time, saying that unfortunately, the time has not finished to pay the highways, only 20 years from now will we just pay them. It is therefore important to see whether the railways actually began. It is true that this Line, its reactivation and internationalization, already includes the National Investment Programme. The question here is when can it be a reality. from the CDS, we perceive this bet, not only in the railway but also in the connection to the territories of the lowest density and in its internationalization. To the point of view of the strategic interest that it brings to the Douro region, for the opportunities to Porto de Leixões, by shortening the distance and travel time between the port of Leixões and the links to Spain by this way, it seems very interesting to us. The key question here is knowing when it might be a reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u167	Mr Nuno Fazenda of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners, in particular the League of Friends of the World Heritage, the Foundation of the Douro Museum and the many other subscribers who have mobilized themselves for a very important cause and which deserves our full attention. The Douro is a unique territory, it is the oldest demarcated and regulated wine region in the world, it is the largest wine-exporting region in Portugal and includes two heritage goods of Humanity, the Upper Douro Vinhateiro, the cultural and wine-growing landscape, which forms part of the railway line, and the Archaeological Park of the Côa Valley. But, despite these territorial assets, which are economic assets, the truth is that Douro is still a region with socio-economic indicators below the average of the North region and below the national average. It is in this context that it is important to continue to support and develop the interior and, in this case, the Douro, including the railway. And in the railroad what is the background cloth in Portugal? Now, from Mininho to Algarve, passing through the banks, the rail modernization is underway throughout the country. It is the largest railway modernization operation in Portugal in the last 20 years and the Douro is no exception, and well. The electrification between Caíde and Marco de Canaveses was completed in 2019, EUR 10 million of investment, and investments are assumed for the modernisation of the Douro line to Pocinho. But it also worked on circulating material. What have we had so long ago in terms of rolling material and carriages in the Douro? Trains removed, service deficiencies, largely due to lack of trains. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the scenario we had long ago was that of abandoned carriages for more than 20 years. Today, the scenario is that of recovered carriages that are not in the museum, are at the service of the populations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They're not in the museum and they're circulating on the Douro Line. 11 carriages have been recovered and some are still in recovery. in this context, these carriages serve today the Douro populations and serve even tourists that last summer, even with health restrictions, have already taken advantage of this recovery. Therefore, in this context, I would also like to welcome the extraordinary work that CP workers have done in the recovery of these carriages, these locomotives, which are railway heritage. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u169	That's in Barca d’Alva!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u170	But in the modernization of the Douro Line we cannot forget the Pocinho / Barca d’ Alva. When I was at the North CCDR and the Douro Mission Structure, I was privileged to join and participate in the Douro Line Revitalization Commission. This is a current cause, which is important and must be continued and therefore we believe that all efforts should be initiated to ensure also the viability of the Pocinho / Barca d’Alva, on behalf of the Douro and on behalf of territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u171	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u172	I'm finishing up, Madam President. Therefore, we accompany the various draft resolutions presented here by the different parties in order to enhance the Douro on the various fronts, in navigationability and, in this case, the railway and the appreciation of the landscape. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u173	We conclude this point on our agenda and move on to the following point, which consists in the joint assessment of Petition No 628 / XIII / 4. a (Vítor Alexandre Lopes Pereira Vicente et al.) — They request the adoption of measures against the databases of the Tax Authority together with, in general, the Bills Nos 655 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Alter procedures for the delivery of the SAF-T ( PT ) file on accounting ( First amendment to Decree-Law No 48 / 2020 of 3 August ) and 683/ XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Revocation of the big fiscal brother by repealing Decree-Law No 48 / 2020 of 3 August and with Draft Resolution No 886 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government change the delivery procedures of the SAF-T ( PT ) accounting file. I welcome the petitioners present in the galleries and now give the floor to Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u174	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: First of all, we would like to welcome the subscribers of this petition, which involved various structures and which collected more than 11 000 signatures. Even before this petition was launched, the PCP had already presented a parliamentary assessment of the decree-law that instituted the obligation to deliver the SAF-T file (standardaud file for tax purposes) of the accounting. at that time, what the Government wanted — and which had just been changed in the Assembly of the Republic, also on the initiative of the CFP, was the unrestricted delivery of this file to the Tax Authority ( AT ) for all micro and small enterprises, regardless of whether or not they fell to tax escape indications, justified at the time with the simplification of the pre-filled EIS ( simplified business information ). However, from the outset this intention of delivering the file has raised doubts to various entities, including the National Data Protection Commission. And why the worries? What is contained in this file, after all, if it was to be delivered entirely to the Tax Authority? Information on all banking movements of the company; information on commercial relations between passive subjects, revealing commercial policies, discount policies, contacts of suppliers and customers, debts, coming to the detail of who, within the company, has changed a certain field and at what time; business contacts and personal information relating to third parties— and here the opinion of CNPD ( National Data Protection Commission) places special reservations as to particularly sensitive information, such as health information, contained in consultation invoices, medical care or examinations. A source of information far beyond what is necessary to fill out the EIS, and which would become concentrated in one entity, in this case the AT. To make our position clear: the SAF-T file must exist and must be delivered to the Tax Authority in the framework of an inspection procedure, as an instrument for combating fraud and tax evasion. It should not be delivered without any indication of irregular behaviour, in a kind of preventive and permanent inspection, in which the taxable persons self-report the information contained in that file, even if they do not have this awareness, without any guarantees of use that is then given to them. That is why we intervened in 2019 to try to limit this government claim.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u175	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u176	The outcome of this initiative was not what the CFP wanted. Each party will respond to the options it took at the time, including changes at the last hour, however what remained in this 2019 diploma has already been an advance in view of what the government initially intended. In the 2019 Act, it was expressed that in the prior submission process of the SAF-T the data fields of the file which are considered less relevant or disproportionate to the subject matter of the diploma should be excluded prior to submission. I repeat: these fields should be excluded before submission. However, in the regulatory decree, the Government has opted for a solution which does not appear to correspond to this provision. Instead of being excluded prior to submission, the SAF-T file continues to be delivered entirely to AT, being a set of data encrypted by a digital key developed by the National House of Coin Press. There is a difference between the prior exclusion of certain data and its encryption.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u178	The solution we propose here is the one that seems to us to correspond to what the 2019 law says. We admit that it can be improved in the specialty, and this is also our intention with the presentation of this bill. We are also presenting a draft resolution for an extended consultation on this subject and also to ensure that the mandatory delivery of SAF-T does not enter into force at least as long as the economic consequences of COVID-19 last, taking into account the associated administrative costs, which are dispensed at a time when the important thing is to save the economy and companies. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not know any country in Europe that has this obligation to deliver the SAF-T to accounting. The government may know, we don't know. The government wants Portugal to be a pioneer. It is unfortunate that we are not pioneers in the fight against big fraud and tax evasion, which is responsible for the greatest losses. We are a pioneer who forces us to be more cautious and to ensure that legitimate concerns are overcome by a broad and transparent debate. This is what we want with these initiatives: to reopen this issue, to find the best solutions while it is still time, before this measure is implemented. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u179	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u180	Madam President, I would like to begin by congratulating the petitioners who delivered this petition here in April 2019 with more than 10 000 signatures. And as a response to this petition and to several conversations we've had, the CDS presented a project to revoke what ended up being known as the big brother tax. Let's go to parties: what's the matter here? What is at stake here is the legally enshrined obligation in 2018 of delivery to all contributors, to all companies, of the SAF-T file. What does this file have? It has basically everything: sales, purchases, expenses, receipts, payments, banking movements, debts, heritage, etc. In other words, what is at stake here — and it is good that this is clear — is not that a company under investigation has to deliver that file, this issue has nothing to do with it; what is at stake is to place all Portuguese companies operating in Portugal under suspicion, saying that they have to give the tax administration information that is not even available to their partners or shareholders. This legally enshrines the idea that any collective person is initially suspected of having fled to the tax office and, as such, has to deliver all his accounts to the tax administration. This provision is so much more incomprehensible if we think it does not exist anywhere else in the world. And in Portugal, there is already a lot of tax administration through the e-invoicing system. The idea that tax administration has little information is false; in Portugal it has much more information than in general countries and therefore there is no need for this delivery. She's, I'd say, completely abusive. I repeat again: if this is done in this way it means that the tax administration will, as a rule, know about all companies, much more than its own partners or shareholders. Secondly, I would also like to make it clear that there have been attempts to improve. The CDS has enabled here, through legislation, an attempt to improve the provision, saying that only certain data should be delivered. It was a mitigated solution in which we took part because we understood that it was better than the initial solution, but neither did the government accept it because later it said that, after all, it had to be delivered, although later with the intervention of the National House of Coin Press, in an encryption that no one knows exactly how it will be done. So we went back to what initially seemed more sensible, which was once and for all to revoke this obligation of delivery and put an end to it. That's what we think is better and more sensible. However, we will not fail to make every solution that can minimize the problem in spite of everything, and I would once again like to thank the more than 10 000 petitioners who brought this matter to Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u181	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u182	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: This liberal minute is in practice a warm greeting to the more than 11 000 petitioners, who have come, and very well, to request measures against the abusive databases of the Tax Authority. Citizens who are willing to resist the increasing interference of the State in our lives will always have a warm greeting on our part. All of us, Members of the Nation, should indeed take the phrase that can be read at the beginning of this petition very seriously, and which says: « The State does not have to have databases where the whole life of people and businesses is known». The National Data Protection Commission itself, as already mentioned here, in a recent opinion on this law decree, and with regard to the submission of the integrity of the SAF-T file, states that «the file concerned gathers personal information, especially regarding customers who are natural persons, revealing important dimensions of their private life, and may even involve particularly sensitive data, such as those relating to health in the invoices relating to the provision of consultations, medical care or conducting diagnostic examinations». That is why the Liberal Initiative will vote in favour of the proposals presented here today and dragged on the basis of this petition. In particular, we welcome the initiative and respect that the CFP demonstrates for the life and private property of citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u183	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u184	Mr President, I would like to say, without any irony, that it is a pity for the CFP to forget about respect for private property when it then proposes to nationalize everything that moves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u185	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we greet and greet the petitioners. I would like to point out that we believe that there are issues that need to be considered and discussed, in particular that we should discuss, for example, whether the requirements of this system are reasonable for micro and small enterprises with reduced turnover and whether they can even be counterproductive and bring less effective supervision by the Tax Authority. It must be discussed whether or not it will make sense to ensure the creation of support and incentives for the implementation of the system by companies, and, of course, in view of the relief of the expenditure of companies, consideration should also be given to the suspension of this obligation to deliver in the context of a health crisis for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises which have suffered significant loss of revenue due to the health crisis. The NAP will accompany the draft resolution which is brought to the debate and which seeks to respond to these problems. But we would like to say the following: to call big brother tax the obligation to deliver this file to the Tax Authority for the completion of simplified business information demonstrates, in our view, a tax vision incompatible with the demands and challenges of the 21st century. It is also politically irresponsible for us because we know that this is a system that follows the international standard of reference in this area and meets the recommendations of the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). We say it is politically irresponsible, because we know that our country is one of the most tax revenue it loses for tax havens and tax evasion. Therefore, this system also aims to put in place a mechanism for combating fraud and tax evasion, which, although we agree that there is no clear improvement and no solution for all evils, has had good results. We recall that the digital transition of computer software systems to invoicing and generalisation has led to risks of handling the elements of the invoices issued, which, of course, involve risks of loss of tax revenue, e.g. VAT ( value added tax ). And they are precisely risks such as these that this mechanism aims to avoid. Therefore, in our understanding, these risks are also confronted with more transparency in the information provided and not with more opacity. The NAP will, of course, be on the side of transparency and we also assume our position in the vote on Bill No 180 / XIII / 4. a. We often criticise our country here for lack of political action in the fight against tax havens, but this is something...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u187	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u188	As I said, we understand that this is a positive aspect that we should not criticize.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u189	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u190	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words are for the Green Parliamentary Group to welcome the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to this petition that we are discussing, in particular those who are here with us today to follow up our work. Through this important instrument of our participatory democracy, subscribers ask for measures against the databases of the Tax Authority. In particular there are two legal diplomas, Decree-Law No 87 / 2018 and Decree-Law No 48 / 2020. And they are at stake because these two diplomas enhance all the problems mentioned in the text accompanying the petition. In fact, on the pretext of facilitating the automatic pre-fill of tax obligations, the Government published Decree-Law No 87 / 2018, which made the delivery of the SAF-T file on accounting mandatory. Thus, in accordance with this diploma, all companies and businesses on an individual's own behalf with organised accounting were obliged to submit to the Tax Authority their databases, total and comprehensive, with all accounting records. However, this intention of the Government to allow access without any restrictions to a file with information that completely transcends the limits of information strictly necessary to fulfil the reporting obligations is likely to achieve citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees. It is no wonder, therefore, that this diploma, since its entry into force, has been the subject of harsh criticism and strong reparations by several entities, which the petitioners have finally formalized through this petition. As regards Decree Law No. 48 / 2020, it should be recalled that the National Data Protection Commission has also prepared its opinion on its preliminary draft. It says this opinion — and I quote — that «the file concerned gathers personal information, revealing important dimensions of private life, and may even involve particularly sensitive data, such as health data». But this Commission also makes a very clear distinction between the situations in which the Tax Authority needs to access the data contained in the invoices under inspection and that this Commission does not question. As regards tax settlement situations, or even with the aim of simplifying tax obligations, the Commission believes that this access is not only essential, but also manifestly excessive. That is, one thing is the need for data, by the Tax Authority, in the centre of inspection activity, another very different thing is to place the whole universe of passive subjects in a kind of preventive and permanent inspection, without citizens seeing their rights guaranteed. In view of this framework, the Greens believe that it is necessary to revise Decree-Law No 48 / 2020, in order to amend the procedures for the delivery of the SAF-T file, as proposed by the Portuguese Communist Party, or then its revocation, as proposed by the CDS-PP. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Greens fully follow the concerns of the petitioners and their purposes and that they will vote in favour of the three initiatives that are under discussion and which, in our view, meet the claims and objectives of the petitioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u191	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u192	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: First of all, I would like to begin by welcoming the initiative of the thousands of petitioners and saying that this is a very important issue that they bring to the Assembly of the Republic. Many of the concerns expressed in the petition are concerns for the PSD Parliamentary Group. The concern about defending the taxpayer and safeguarding its protection, the guarantee that we do not actually have a big brother tax have been concerns of the PSD, so we follow the content of the petition. But today, in particular, we are discussing in what terms the delivery of this SAF-T file should take place to the tax administration. It is important to say that, as the Member of the CFP said earlier, this issue has been brought here, to Parliament, which has taken a rather interventional stance. In 2019, also through the intervention of the PSD, there were several proposals that were introduced into the law, namely ensuring that the information made available, of course those that were of lesser relevance or called into question the obligation of secrecy to which these entities were legally and contractually subject, should be excommunicated and should not be sent to the tax administration. That was the intention of the legislator in 2019. And the PSD was concerned about introducing another safeguard. We had not yet had the decree of law, but the decree of law had to ensure that this file was expunging this information, which should not be made available to the tax administration. Unfortunately, the decree-law published in 2020, Decree-Law No. 48 / 2020, did not take into account the will of the legislator, because it makes trays and delivery to the tax administration many of this information. And, as has already been mentioned several times, the CNPD opinion, in particular, is absolutely devastating in the treatment that this decree gives to taxpayers' guarantees. I have listened very carefully to the speech of Mrs PAN. I understand that there is obviously concern about combating fraud, tax evasion, there is concern about ensuring the collection of tax revenue for the financing and functioning of the State, but this cannot be done at the expense of principles with constitutional protection, such as the principle of proportionality, nor can it be done by resorting to violation and the draft of taxpayer rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u194	It is very important to make this clear. So we will follow the bill of the Communist Party in order to correct. This decree-law needs corrections, it needs, in fact, that what was the legislator's will in 2019 enters the law. One of our concerns and our first amendments will be the postponement of the entry into force of this obligation, because today, if nothing happens, companies are obliged to submit this information in accordance with this decree in 2021. This will therefore, of course, be one of our concerns as the first amendment proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u195	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u196	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: I begin by complimenting the petitioners. We have heard and studied their arguments and have a critical position on them. We agree on many points, but we will not agree on other points. That is how democracy is. I believe that the frontality of the debate requires that very much. It does not seem to us, and it never seemed to us, that the fight against big fraud is opposed to the fight against small fraud. The small tax evasion exists. It exists in Portugal, by ignorance, or, in worse circumstances, by will. There is tax evasion in a very impoverished business fabric and we know that you have very little tax knowledge and often it is not even intentional. But that does not mean that there are no difficulties in their relationship with the Tax Authority. We also know that accounting information is an important element in combating tax evasion in small businesses, medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises. It does not seem to me that this is a presumption of fraud or a suspicion of departure. What I think is that we live in a regime where there is a lack of transparency about business information. There is a lack of transparency for partners, there is a lack of transparency for the general public, there is a lack of transparency for the State. There is a system of lack of transparency and it needs to be combated. Business secrecy, banking secrecy does not correspond to personal privacy, it does not have the same value and may even be objectionable for other interests such as public interest, such as the interest in ensuring the payment of taxes and the defence of taxpayers. Having said that — and this is general principles — all rules and laws must take account of, weight and measure. It is the principle of proportionality that was discussed here. If it is fair for the Tax Authority to have access to information that is useful in combating tax evasion, it is not fair to ask micro and small businesses for a bureaucratic and information burden with which they cannot deal. If it is fair that the Tax Authority may have access to some accounting information that is useful, it is not fair that it has access to data that violates the right to privacy of persons, to personal data. This is called the principle of proportionality. And it is in defense of this principle of proportionality that we will follow the project of the Portuguese Communist Party, because we believe that there are improvements to be made in this regime to protect small and medium-sized enterprises from the disproportionateness of a regime which imposes obligations on them that are not in accordance with their capacity, but also to protect the privacy of people, which is a right that obviously cannot be violated lightly, and to that end they point to the opinions we have been receiving. I would therefore like to leave here our opinion and position on these projects. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u197	For an intervention, Mrs Vera Braz of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u198	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: I begin by complimenting the petitioners present. It is never too much to remember that simplified business information emerged in 2006, within the framework of the Simplex, as another simplification measure that came to an end with four reporting obligations of an accounting, fiscal and statistical nature and that involved sending information to four different entities: the tax administration, the Banco de Portugal, the National Institute of Statistics ( INE ) and the Ministry of Justice. In other words, IES is currently a document that compiles data for several entities and in which each one has access to information that is legally authorized to receive and treat. The creation and maintenance of the SAF-T has also been a reality since 2008, in the context of combating fraud and tax evasion, so it is not new, nor something that requires more work. Its existence is already part of current tax obligations. What is intended with the connection of the SAF-T file with IES is to continue the path of simplification, data reliability and cost reduction by our companies. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how many IES tables and fields are removed by obtaining information via the SAF-T? It's 56 paintings and 2162 camps! If the information already exists in a file, it makes no sense to duplicate obligations, contributing to the creation of another additional file, which goes against the logic of simplifying the reporting obligations. We'd be backing back and not evolving. This is an opportunity and another step in the paradigm change that is intended for real digital transformation. The amount of data currently generated requires the adoption of tools that simplify, ensure the consistency and reliability of the information provided and that they are a further value for business management. We fully agree that the proportionality of this information is ensured, that it should be transmitted to the Tax Authority within the framework of tax obligations and that the confidentiality of the data that so require is preserved. For this reason, for the implementation of the decree-law that guarantees the achievement of these objectives, a number of entities have previously been consulted, including the above mentioned National Data Protection Commission, whose conclusions have been incorporated into the final document. The finding of data encryption solution, present in the SAF-T file, having been identified those that are of lesser relevance, disproportionate and even as being sensitive information for the development of the business itself, comes to meet the primary objectives of allowing simplification, the reliability of the information and, at the same time, the protection of taxpayers. And this without additional costs, since this process is totally free, being the charges borne by the State. For cases where the acquisition of goods or services by companies is necessary, a tax benefit was created in the State budget for 2021 which is intended to support the expenditure incurred in an extraordinary way. The projects presented today are based on some references of opinions of the National Data Protection Commission, one of which on the original data encryption by the taxpayer. Are the applicants calling into question the non-characterization of the fields by the taxpayer in a deliberate way? It is the same as saying that they do not trust our companies about their duty to protect personal data. Finally, it should be noted that they lack a reference to the last opinion issued by the National Data Protection Commission, having been noted that the mechanism of decharacterisation adopted appears, and I quote, « (...) appropriate for the purpose of ensuring that the submission of the SAF-T file on accounting does not result in unnecessary and excessive impact on the private life of persons(... ) ». There is therefore no doubt as to the conformity of the decree of law with the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission and with the appropriate rules for the protection of the personal data of taxpayers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u199	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS Parliamentary Group has the floor. This was not the order of the interventions which I was going to give the floor to Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u200	Madam President, for a question of courtesy and because the oldest project is the PCP, I think they should have the last word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u201	Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u202	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very briefly, I would just like to leave a few clarifications here, which I think may lead to some of you. Members even change their sense of vote, making it possible for the projects that are here. First, the SAF-T is already mandatory. That's not what we're discussing. In fact, it meets European standards, but it is already mandatory. We're not discussing it. What we are discussing is the obligation to deliver the entire file of all companies to the tax administration, something that does not exist in any other country - and it is not by any chance that this is mentioned here. In no other country in the world this obligation exists and Portugal is already a country in which tax administration, through the e-invoicing system and other computerization, such as the forwarding guides, already has an abundance of information which is rarely seen in any country in Europe. And that is why it makes no sense, in addition to everything that already exists, to be obliged that the accounting information that exists in all companies, in the beginning, be handed over to the tax administration. Tax administration must not be the financial and accounting department of all Portuguese companies. This is an aberration that doesn't exist anywhere in the world. If the idea is that it's easier to fill out the IES... and what is the IES? It is an annual declaration called Simplified Business Information—as soon as it starts, with the example of the 260 fields, I think we are all aware of how simplified information is! But if it is to make your filling easier, then this is done in companies. It becomes simpler, from the point of view of computer application, its completion in companies, it is still mandatory for IES and the tax administration has access to these data. There is no reason for the tax administration to have exactly the same data as the accounting of a company. That is what is at stake here and that is why the big brother tax is used, which would like to clarify that it is not from the CDS, it is from the petitioners—in fact, it is not only from the petitioners, because I have heard it quite well beyond the petitioners. This is as if the State told all citizens: "To be sure that you do not commit crimes, we will listen to all your calls and read all your emails, as a rule." This is what's at stake for companies...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u203	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u204	...and that's why he's a big fiscal brother.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u205	And now Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u206	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today there has been a lot of talk here about combating fraud and tax evasion. In fact, combating fraud and tax evasion is a very important issue in which, as in all other matters, there are priorities. But the priority we have seen in recent times is, on the one hand, an absolute focus on hunting fines for small and medium-sized enterprises and, on the other, on a complete disparity with regard to the large tax evasion, which, indeed, is responsible for the greatest losses. And there we do not see innovations like these that are put here, there we do not see the government's intention to go further in this great tax fraud, there we do not see reports, like those of tax amnesty, in which millions are forgiven. And, therefore, the PCP...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u207	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u208	Mr President, I conclude by saying that what we want is that these measures are not implemented, which are disproportionate to their objectives. As for large companies, the SAF-T does not apply, but rather accounting standards...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u209	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u210	And, therefore, what we defend is that the 2019 law is respected, with the solution that is found. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u211	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of point 6 of our agenda. We move on to point 7, to which no time is allocated for discussion of motion for resolution No 10 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of Ecuador, signed on 11 November 2016, in Brussels. Let us then move on to the last item on our agenda, which is the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I hope all parliamentary groups are ready. We begin with the Vote Project No. 488 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport and subscribed by PSD and PS Members ) — Regret of the death of Alfredo Quintana. Before asking Ms. Maria da Luz Rosinha to read this draft vote, I inform the House that there are family and friends present, including the widow Raquel Ferreira, the mother, Silvia Bravo, the father, Eduardo Quintana, the brother, Eduardo Quintana, Prof. José Magalhães, friend of the family, Eng.António Borges, Vice-President of the Football Clube do Porto and Mr. Juiz Desambargador Pedro Mourão, President of the Assembly-General of the Portuguese Federation of Andebol. Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor to read the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u212	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last February 26, Alfredo Eduardo Quintana Bravo died as a reference to Portuguese andebol. Atleta of exception, Alfredo Quintana was born in Havana, Cuba, on March 20, 1988, where he began his sports career. In 2010 Alfredo Quintana arrived in Portugal to integrate, as a bodyguard, the plant of the Soccer Clube do Porto, which represented the date of his death and by which he conquered six Championships, a Portugal Cup and three Supertaças. By opting for Portugal, where he met his wife, Raquel Ferreira, and became a family, Alfredo Quintana came to acquire Portuguese nationality by naturalization, which allowed him to be summoned to the Andebol National Selection in 2014. As an international player, Alfredo Quintana contributed to Portugal's evolution and affirmation in the modality, and it was crucial to obtain the best ever rankings of the 'quinas' team: the sixth place at the 2020 European Championship and the tenth at the 2021 World Championship. Their sudden and premature disappearance, less than a month of 33 years, shocked the country and, in particular, the sports community. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Alfredo Quintana, addressing the family and friends as well as the Football Club of Porto and the Andebol Federation of Portugal, the most sorry condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u213	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. We shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] In my personal name and on behalf of the Bureau, I convey our sentiments to the family and friends. Following the Vote Project No. 489 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities and subscribed by PSD and PS Members ) — In spite of the murder of the Italian Ambassador in Kinshasa and two of his companions on a United Nations World Food Programme train. There is Mr. Ambassador of Italy, Carlo Formosa, in the galleries, to whom the Bureau also conveys his condolences. I ask Secretary Lina Lopes to read the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last February 22nd, the Italian ambassador in Kinshasa, Luca Attanasio, and two escorts, Vittorio Iacovacci and Mustapha Milambo, were killed by an armed group when, within the framework of the World Food Programme, he went to Rutshuru to visit a school cellar that had been built there by the United Nations. The delegation was attacked north of Goma, the capital of the province of North Kivu, a place that has been scourged by the violence of armed groups, militias and criminal gangs for more than two decades. Regardless of who has committed the murders and the attack, which the President himself condemned, the missions of the United Nations agencies are protected by international law for the performance of their humanitarian actions, absolutely fundamental to the people, circumstances that make such occurrences incomprehensible, condemnable and deeply regrettable. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deepest regret over the shameful and shameful occurrence, giving sincere condolences and solidarity to the victims' family, the Italian authorities and the United Nations. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u215	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We proceed with the Vote Project No. 496 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the PS ) — Suffice it to the victims of the fall of Ponte Hintze Ribeiro no 20. the anniversary of the tragedy. I ask the Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On 4 March 2001, the fourth pillar of Ponte Hintze Ribeiro, which made the connection between Castelo de Paiva, Aveiro district, and the town of Entre-os-Rios, in the municipality of Penafiel, district of Porto, noiseed, dragging with him the central part of the board. At the collapse of the bridge 59 people tragically lost their lives, many of them from the same family and community. 34 of these people were of the same parish, Riva, in the municipality of Castelo de Paiva. The size of the tragedy was even harder because of the difficulty of recovering the bodies of the victims, making the mourning that families are trying to do over these 20 years heavier. Over the course of 20 years, the two bridges that connect two margins today cannot erase the memory of that night of a winter that has become, for the bereaved families, perennial and definitive and that forced the country, shocked, to confront itself with asymmetries of development so far unknown to many. Remembering the victims on this symbolic anniversary is a duty for their families who, over the years, try to overcome the inultrapassable. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary, recalls this tragic moment that, 20 years ago, it has indelibly marked our collective history and pays tribute to the victims and their families who, over the last 20 years, have lived daily and felt irreparable losses. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u217	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the votes that we have just voted on, we will keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No. 495 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees and subscribed by PS Members ) — Greetings for Women's International Day ( 8 March ). I ask Secretary Lina Lopes to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u218	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « In 1975 the United Nations consecrated 8 March as the International Women's Day, pointing out a historic milestone in the fight for women's rights. It is a time for a global reflection on progress in human rights, honoring the courage and determination of women who have fought over decades for the promotion of gender equality. Today, in particular, we welcome all the women who are doing their work in the front line of the pandemic and we are in solidarity with the difficulties experienced by many women in reconciling telework with the provision of family care, as well as the current worsening of work precariously in some predominantly female sectors. on this day, we also want to point out the victims of domestic violence who are isolated at home, with the aggressor, being fundamental to mobilize all efforts in order to combat this scourge that mainly affects women. in these difficult times that we go through, we are aware that the consequent social impacts of the COVID-19 can compromise the achievements achieved and introduce retreats on the path of equal opportunities that have been taken. We are convinced that the promotion of gender equality and, in particular, equal opportunities between men and women, in all their quadrants, will always be a civilizational design, an essential factor for inclusive and sustainable development, assumed by all societies. The Assembly of the Republic welcomes the International Women's Day and reaffirms its commitment to the continued promotion of women's rights as an integral, inalienable and indivisible part of all human rights and fundamental freedoms for the construction of a more just, inclusive and equal society. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u219	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Let us now vote for draft resolution No 1046 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Extension of the initial period of operation of the Possible Commission for the Monitoring of the Application of Response Measures to the COVID-19 Pandemic and the Economic and Social Recovery Process. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1070 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Possible Parliamentary Investigation Commission for the State's activities in the allocation of support for the 2017 Fire sequence in the Interior Pinhal Zone for a period of 15 days from 9 March, date of deliberation in the Commission. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 651 / XIV / 2. a (BE)...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u220	Madam President, may I apologize for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u221	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u222	Madam President, we can vote together on draft resolutions Nos 651 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 661 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 662 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 683 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) and 713 / XIV / 2. a (PEV).
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u223	Exactly, Mr. Deputies, I was going to propose that. If no one opposes us, that's how we do it. [[Pause.]] Since everyone agrees, then we will vote jointly, in general, the Resolution Projects Nos. 651 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By the autonomy of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management, 661 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By safeguarding the autonomy of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management, 662 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government find a solution for the Idanha-a-New Higher School of Management socially and territorially just for the council, 683 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote concerted efforts to find alternative solutions that simultaneously guarantee the financial sustainability of the Polytechnic Institute of Castelo Branco and its stay in the territory of Idanha-a-Nova, thus contributing to the territorial cohesion and development of this entire region of the country, and 713 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Administrative, pedagogical and scientific autonomy of the Idanha-a-Nova Higher School of Management. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS were adopted.]] Mrs. Members, the draft resolutions we just voted on are down to 8. Let's now vote on draft resolution No 730 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote a solution that safeguards the educational project of the Higher School of Management of Idanha-a-Nova and the Polytechnic Institute of White Castle. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, this draft resolution also goes down to 8. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 822 / XIV / 2. a (BE)... Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we can also vote together on the various draft resolutions on the same subject. [[Pause.]] When there is no opposition, we shall vote jointly, in general, the Resolution Projects Nos. 822 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By requalifying the whole Douro Line ( Ermesinde-Barca d’ Alva and subsequent connection to Salamanca ), 834 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Requalification and operation of the Douro Line ( Ermesinde-Barca d’ Alva ) and subsequent connection to Salamanca, 843 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the modernization and electrification of the Douro Line to Barca d’ Alva and the replacement of its connection with the Spanish railway network, 847 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By requalification and reopening of the Douro Line to Barca d’ Alva and restoration of international rail connection, and 986 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — In defense of the Douro Line and by the reaction of the crowds. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u224	Mr President, if I may, I believe you did not indicate the draft resolution of the Left Block or at least did not hear it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u225	I indicated, yes, Mr. Deputies, that was the first.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u226	So I'm sorry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u227	Mrs. Members, the draft resolutions we just voted on are down to 6. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 655 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Alter procedures for the delivery of the SAF-T ( PT ) file on accounting ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 48 / 2020 of 3 August ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS and PAN.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 5. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 683 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( CDS-PP ) — The large fiscal brother shall be revoked by repealing Decree-Law No 48 / 2020 of 3 August. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PAN, the BE and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the PSD abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u228	Madam President, may I apologize for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u229	Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u230	Mr President, it is only to indicate that, with regard to the vote we have just held, a written declaration of vote will be submitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u231	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We moved on to the Resolution Project No. 886 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government change the delivery procedures of the SAF-T ( PT ) accounting file. With regard to this draft resolution, the PSD called for a point-by-point vote. We shall therefore vote, firstly, together, on points 1 to 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS were adopted.]] Let us now vote on point 5 of the same motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u232	Madam President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u233	Madam Member, we have not yet finished this vote. Do you intend to make a point of order to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u234	Madam President, I am very sorry, but I want to correct a vote. We will make it as Mr President understands, but it is probably better to do so at the end of the vote on these points. It is because Mrs President really prints a very high speed for this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u235	Madam Member, I am reading the points and I therefore believe that they will be following me and that they will be paying attention to the votes. Let us then vote point 5 of draft resolution No 886 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CH abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u236	Madam President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u237	Please, Mr. André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u238	Madam President, it is only to indicate that, in relation to this vote, a statement of vote will also be submitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u239	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Now, yes, Mrs Hortense Martins, please indicate the correction you intend to make.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u240	Madam President, I am sorry, because I really let the vote go, but I want to correct that my sense of vote on draft resolutions on the Idanha-a-Nova High School of Management and on the Polytechnic Institute of White Castle is in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u241	It is registered, Mrs. Member, but it is already quite late. Mr Nuno Fazenda and Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura also indicated that they wanted to use the floor. It is for what purpose, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u242	It is for the same purpose, Madam President. We were also unable to follow the vote on the draft resolutions of the Left Block, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the PCP, which Mrs Hortense Martins referred to, but our sense of vote is in favour of all of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u243	So it's recorded that the gentlemen. Deputies Hortense Martins, Nuno Fazenda, Alexandra Tavares de Moura and Joana Bento voted in favour of Resolution Projects Nos 651 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 661 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 662 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 683 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) and 713 / XIV / 2. a (PEV). The vote was followed by motion for a resolution No 10 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of Ecuador, signed on 11 November 2016, in Brussels. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP and ENP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 877 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Working Group on Inventing, Classification and Disaffectation in favour of the Retired and Returned State Real Estate RAA. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, I think we can generally vote together on draft resolutions Nos 890 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the comprehensive, adequate enhancement and integration of the monumental set of Islamic archaeological structures located in the Lisbon Seys cloister, 924 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Safeguarding, museuming and valuing the Islamic Monumental Set of the Lisbon See, 934 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends the urgent completion of the works of the Patriarchal See of Lisbon in order to ensure the necessary stability and integrity of the building and the safeguarding of Muslim remains in the clauses, 952 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — The preservation and integration of the Islamic archaeological remains in the Lisbon See, and 960 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira )...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u244	No, no, Madam President, only until the draft resolution of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u245	Well, then, let's try to clarify. I'm asking the ladies. Members who are all careful and who, when they do not agree, say so. Therefore, we can vote together in general on the draft resolutions of the PCP, the Left Block, the CDS-PP and the ENP. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, we will vote for them. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 960 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Recommends the full safeguard, enhancement and integration of the monumental set of al-Ushbuna medieval al-Ushbuna mosque in the Lisboa See cloister. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against CH and PS and CDS-PP abstentions.]] This diploma also falls to 12. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u246	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u247	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u248	Madam President, it is to inform the Bureau that we will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u249	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 974 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Patriarchal See of Lisbon — Recommends full disclosure of opinions and projects relating to ongoing recovery and recovery and recovery works and safeguarding structural security. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This diploma falls to 12. the Commission. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 1005 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends the safeguarding and valorization of recent archaeological findings in the Patriarchal See of Lisbon, ensuring their use by visitors. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma falls to 12. the Commission. We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 944 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — The allocation of social support provided in the context of COVID-19 to all workers in the culture and the creation of specific CAE codes for these professionals. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 856 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the classification of the area constituted by the dunes of exit of port, ancient customs, chapel of Sant’ ana and “Pokinha” as a protected landscape. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] This diploma falls to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u250	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u251	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u252	Madam President, it is to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u253	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No 1009 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the safeguarding and valorization of the natural set composed of the dune of exit and surrounding landscape. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PEN, PEN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] This diploma falls to 11. the Commission. We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 892 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — The inclusion of students to train in all health institutions in priority vaccination groups for their protection and users. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 917 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government ensure conditions for mixed and non-presental education by mobilizing resources from the plan for digital transition. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 930 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — By inclusive education in a state of emergency. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 932 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends the provision of school meals to students receiving school social action through the school network of 1. the cycle and childhood gardens. [[The vote was taken in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and PSD abstentions.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 985 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — The reopening of the schools in security. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 529 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government equip and cover militarized forces under the conditions and rules for the allocation and calculation of pension for the reform of the convergent social protection scheme and disability and old age pension for the general social security scheme of military forces by amending Law No 3 / 2017 of 6 January 2017. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH, IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 1023 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government actions to combat homophobia in the blood donation. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 819 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Affection of the national cultural and creative sector with a value of not less than 2 % of the European money of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism in Portugal. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u254	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u255	Mr. João Oliveira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u256	Madam President, it is to announce a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u257	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 992 / XIV / 2. a ( PEV) — Preservation and requalification of the aqueduct of St. Antão do Tojal, in the municipality of Loures. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 962 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Conditions for the conclusion of the investment agreement with China on respect for human and labour rights, including the release of minorities caught in the so-called « fields of re-education ». [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u258	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u259	Ask the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u260	Madam President, it is to inform that the CDS will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u261	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will vote for the Resolution Project No 1007 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure to taxable persons/parents the means of access to the area reserved at the Finance Portal of their dependents in alternate custody, in order to allow their inclusion in the IRS declarations of both for the purposes of imputation of income and deductions. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 908 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government support the conversion to organic production and the dedication of 25 % of the national agricultural area to this mode of production by 2030. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PCP, PEV and IL.]] Let's vote on draft resolution No 1013 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends the compulsory registration of dogs used in any venatoria to combat the abandonment of hunting dogs. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PEV and IL were rejected.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 151 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes the regime for the replacement of extinct strawberries. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u262	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u263	Mr. João Oliveira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u264	Madam President, it is to inform us that we intend to make a statement of an oral vote on this vote at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u265	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u266	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u267	Ask the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u268	Madam President, it is to inform us that we will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u269	It is also registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 777 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By creating a fund to support youth association, 852 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Creation of an extraordinary programme to support youth associivism, and 887 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of an extraordinary programme to support youth organisations. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Health Committee on Bills Nos 512 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Measures to recover the activity of medical boards of disability assessment, 538 / XIV / 2. a (NAP) — Ensure the effective response of the medical boards' activity of assessment of disabilities and primary health care in epidemiological situations caused by COVID-19, and 541 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Transitional arrangements for issuing multi-purpose medical certificates of incapacity. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We shall vote in favour of the plenary of the indexary votes held at the Commission building on the replacement text submitted by the Health Committee on Bills Nos 512 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 538 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) and 541 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ). [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the text of the replacement presented by the Health Committee on Bills Nos 512 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Measures to recover the activity of medical boards of disability assessment, 538 / XIV / 2. a (NAP) — Ensure the effective response of the medical boards' activity of assessment of disabilities and primary health care in epidemiological situations caused by COVID-19, and 541 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Transitional arrangements for issuing multi-purpose medical certificates of incapacity. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u270	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u271	Mr. Moisés Ferreira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u272	Madam President, it is only to announce that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u273	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions Nos 752 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Incentives for the eradication of plastic waste at sea, 796 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends measures to eliminate causes and sources of waste in the marine environment, and 928 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of actions promoting the reduction of waste in the marine environment. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u274	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u275	Mr. João Oliveira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u276	Madam President, it is to announce a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u277	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions Nos 840 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government establish the national bicycle support programme in pre-school education and 972 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the timing, budgeting and implementation of measures promoting pedestrian and cycling active mobility. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members are in favour of paragraphs 11 to 20 of the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic, I Series, concerning plenary meetings held on 8, 9, 14, 15, 16, 22, 23, 27, 28 October 2020 and 6 November 2020. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] You now have the floor to Mrs Paula Santos, to give the PCP statement of vote on draft Law No 151 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u278	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiative of the CFP was the solution to establish the procedure and the deadlines for the replacement of the parish, according to the will of the people. With the rejection of the PCP bill, the opportunity to restore the parish was lost, according to the will of the peoples and the local bodies, in time of the next electoral act for the local authorities. The PS, the PSD, the CDS, the NAP, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival are responsible for the non-replacement of the extinct parish in the forthcoming elections for the authorities, as claimed by the populations and organs of the local authorities, expressed in hundreds and hundreds of motions, undersigned, petitions and actions of struggle, from north to south of the country. The CFP has contributed to concrete solutions to restore the extinct frequencies, according to the will of the populations. The PS and PSD have been more concerned in recent weeks about finding pretexts to prevent the specialty process from proceeding in a fruitful way, as required and as required. The Government, on the one hand, with the late delivery of the bill in the Assembly of the Republic, and the PS and the PSD, on the other hand, seeking to protect the normal progress of the work in the committee, today, with the lead of the proposal of the CFP, prevented a legislative process in good time to allow the replacement of the fragesias. It was clear that even with the will of the populations, the parish will not be restored due to lack of political will of the PS, PSD, CDS, PAN, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival. The CFP, honouring the commitments made with the populations, will continue to intervene in the direction of solving the problems created with the extinction of the frequencies imposed by the PSD and the CDS and maintained by the PS, and will continue to fight in defense of the replacement of the fragesias according to the will of the populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u279	I ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the usual information.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u280	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would just like to inform you that Mr Sérgio Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group, elected by Madeira's electoral circle, was present via videoconferencing. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-11.u281	Our next plenary meeting will take place on 17 Wednesday at 3 p.m. the first item is the debate on general policy, with the presence of the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. of the second point is the debate on Portugal's participation in permanent structural cooperation, with the participation of the Government, in accordance with Article 42 ( 6 ). Article 46. the Treaty on European Union [ see........................................................................................................................ Article 4 ( 2 ( b ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process ]. Preparatory debate of the European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister, under Article 4(1) ( a ). that of the Law of Monitoring and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the construction process of the European Union. of the third item are scheduled votes at the end of the debate. I would also like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Members with regard to the fact that the vote for the bodies outside the Assembly of the Republic is now over. I hope all of you and all of you. Members have already tabled their vote. I wish everyone a good night. Thank you very much for your cooperation. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 51 minutes.]]
