ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Maria de Luz Rosinha, Secretary of State, to do the favor of announcing the file. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, very late for everyone. I am going to announce that the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members has decided to issue an opinion to authorize the removal of parliamentary immunity from Mrs Joana Lima ( PS ), within the scope of the cases referred to in Case No 198 / 21.4T9STS of the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Judge Local Criminal de Santo Tirso — Judge 1.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absences of CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] You may proceed, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to announce another opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members in order to authorize Mr José Manuel Pureza ( BE ) to provide written testimony, as an offender and assistant, within the scope of the cases referred to in Case No 3633 / 21.8T9LSB of the Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon, Judge of Criminal Instruction of Lisbon - Judge 1.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u5	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absences of CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] You may proceed, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u6	I would also like to take into account the amendment of Mr President of the Republic to São Tomé and Príncipe, which was initially scheduled for 28 and 30 September and will now take place on 1 and 3 October due to the change in the date of the take-up of the President of São Tomé Príncipe. I also inform you that they entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Law Projects Nos. 939 / XIV / 3. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 940 / XIV / 3. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 942 / XIV / 3. a ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 943 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 944 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 6. a and 11. a Commission, 945 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 946 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 14. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 947 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 948 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 949 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 950 / XIV/ 3. a ( PCP ), which falls to 3. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 951 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 952 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 953 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, and 954 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission. I also refer to Resolution Projects Nos 1451 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 1452 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAR), 1453 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 3. the Commission, and 1454 / XIV/ 3. a ( Non-attached Member Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 8. Finally, he also entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Parliamentary Assessment No 53 / XIV / 3. a ( PCP ). I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. We are going to start the only point on our agenda today, the political statements, and I begin by speaking to Mr. José Luís Carneiro of the PS. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to greet the Portuguese and Portuguese who took part in the elections in Portuguese on Sunday. They voted in this election near five million voters who, in fulfilling their civic duty, deserve our special greeting. Even knowing that abstention has many and many explanations, including agreement with current political options, we have a duty to promote new initiatives to encourage political participation and electoral participation. Secondly, I would like to thank the Portuguese and Portuguese who throughout the national territory have relied on the political proposals of the candidates and the PS candidates. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also welcome the citizens who, between effective and alternate, have applied to all the local bodies, which well illustrates that it is in the local power that continues to reside the great strength of democracy. I also leave a word of recognition to those who, at the polling stations and sections, have ensured the proper functioning of the electoral act. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as it costs the opposition, the Socialist Party is, for the third time consecutively, the winner of the authentic elections. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS has won the largest number of cameras and the largest number of municipal assemblies. You've won the largest number of parishioners. He got the greatest number of mandates and got the greatest number of votes. It thus achieved its two major strategic objectives: meeting the conditions for maintaining the presidency of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) and the presidency of the National Association of Freguesias ( ANAFRE ). In the direct dispute with its main competitor, not counting the chambers won with the coalitions — 42 coalitions — and support for independent movements, the PS won the presidency of 148 cameras alone, against 72 gains by the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is, the PS, alone, won more than twice the cameras. in this perspective of reading the results, if we look at the number of votes the difference is even more expressive: the PS alone had more than 1 million and 700 thousand votes. The second most voted party had 660 000 votes. This means that the PS alone, and in this perspective, had twice and a half the number of votes of its first competitor. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And in mandates for the cameras had 888, while the PSD had 437. Once again, and in this perspective of analysis, the PS had more than twice the mandates than its first opponent. Faces and dear Members, even considering coalitions and support for independent candidatures, PS won 152 cameras and PSD with 42 coalitions, won 114. And I note: the PS was even the only party that competed in all the municipalities of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u9	The PS is getting more and more alone!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u10	If we look at municipal assemblies, without coalitions, the PS had more than one million votes than the PSD. And the same thing happens in the election for the parish assemblies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we don't have the habit of turning defeats into victories,... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ...but we also do not accept that they try to turn our victory into a defeat. The PS won and won well! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I could not conclude without leaving a word of public recognition and gratitude to the thousands of authors who, daily and sometimes in very difficult circumstances, as occurred during the pandemic, give the best of their lives serving the public interest and local communities. To all of us, our gratitude. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what matters now is serving Portugal and serving Portuguese, and for this we want to count on all the autarchs, regardless of the party for which they were elected. Our collective responsibilities are immense: regaining economic and social living conditions, applying public resources well; monitoring and completing the ongoing decentralization process and preparing the way for popular consultation on regionalization. These are national efforts that impose good institutional cooperation between the different levels of the State and the unequivocal will of this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS is motivated and mobilized for this service to the country and its social, cultural and economic progress. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u11	Mr José Luís Carneiro, the Bureau records the registration of Mr Fernando Ruas of the PSD for a first request for clarification. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u12	Good afternoon, Mr President, dear colleagues, I would like to make a short speech, first of all to tell my colleague that I have now found out that we have more than 308 municipalities! By the accounts you've made, by adding up everything... [[Greetings and laughter from the PSD and CDS-PP.]] But I would like to say the following: as you know, I was a candidate in these elections. This is the seventh time I have introduced myself and I would like to say that, of the seven times I have applied, I have never seen so much confusion and so much promiscuity between party leaders, supporters and members of the government. I've never seen it! And I wanted to tell you that I sincerely hope that this will later translate into responsibility. I have seen Mr. Secretary-General of the PS, as Prime Minister, make promises that we now have to claim and enforce. One of the first questions I would like to ask you is whether you are willing to make a chorus with us to claim these promises that you have made. [[PSD applause.]] For example, in relation to the works claimed and desired in my city — I remember the Viseu-Coimbra motorway, the train and also the oncology centre — I sincerely hope that we will have answers to these questions and these promises this time. [[PSD applause.]] For my part, and I can tell you that I already have some socialists who want to make a chorus with us, we would invent the promises and we will not leave the government for one second until we answer the promises made. [[PSD applause.]] We have the notion that who governs does it for all, so we cannot make promises for just a few and then turn our faces against them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u13	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u14	So I would like to leave this question to you, my dear colleague José Luís Carneiro: is it available to make a chorus with us to charge these promises? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u15	For a new request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. There was also a relevant political fact that almost everyone — politicians, commentators, journalists — pretended to have not seen in the elections last Sunday. We intend to underline this: for the first time there is an authority, in addition to the district capital, whose president is of the Greens Ecological Party. André Martins, member and leader of the ENP, confirming popular support for the work developed by the CDU (Unitarian Democratic Coalition ) for the sake of the Setubalians and their council over the past few years, is the new President of the Municipal House of Setubal. For those who were so concerned about the fact that the Greens did not go to votes, André Martins, myself and dozens of other leaders and members of the ENP presented us with suffrage, integrated in the CDU lists, assuming these and all the other battles. We welcome the more than 450 000 citizens who have given their vote to the CDU and guarantee that their vote will be honored throughout the country by the more than 2000 CDU voters and by all those who, having not been elected, do not give up, and today are already defending public transport, the right to the environment, animal welfare policies and measures to mitigate climate change. So we say it was worth it. It was worth the effort to ensure the more than 40 000 CDU candidates in difficult conditions and constraints caused by the pandemic. It was worth the remarkable effort that so many other activists have made to ensure clarification and mobilization for the vote. It was worth every conversation. It is also worth mentioning today that there are major concerns about abstention. The question is what was done to fight it. We did not spare any effort for each elector to decide on the destinations of his land. Mr President, I have listened carefully to your speech and have not noticed whether you are aware of the timetable for fulfilling the promises that Mr. Prime Minister has been making throughout the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u17	Mr Pedro Morais Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor now for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I welcome Mr José Luís Carneiro and the Socialist Party on the subject chosen for their political declaration, which is that of the elections. From the accounts presented by Mr Deputy, perhaps we have 400 or 500 cameras. We don't understand. It is much more the numbers you mentioned than the existing cameras. But I wanted to leave a note, a balance sheet, and I also wanted to ask you two questions. First of all, the honourable Member announces a victory, but he has forgotten that the Socialist Party has lost four or five cameras which we can consider emblematic and one of them was Lisbon. This when everyone was in full election campaign announcing a victory and they were in the middle of a party. But we could talk about Portalegre,
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u19	Was Portalegre from the PS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u20	...we could talk about Coimbra, or even Funchal. We're talking about district capitals, which shows a yellow card to the Socialist Party. It was not worth Mr Prime Minister who often confused the role of Secretary-General of the PS with that of Prime Minister and who has been promising everything to everyone, using the funds of the PRR (Plan for Recovery and Resilience) and the « European bazauca » by that country outside. from there this note of promiscuity. Yes, there was promiscuity in this election campaign. But I would also like to leave one last question to Mr. José Luís Carneiro : what balance does the Socialist Party make of the coalitions with the NAP and the Free, which not only did not add votes, how did they withdraw, if we compare these results with those of 2017, and lead to the loss of mandates?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u21	Perca is fish! It's loss!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u22	These were the questions I wanted to leave.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u23	In reply, Mr José Luís Carneiro, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u24	Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Fernando Ruas and congratulate him on his election victory last Sunday and wish him the greatest happiness for the performance of his duties. As I have also had the care to stress, in my speech, the Government and the Socialist Party want to count on all the country's authorships to overcome the complex challenges facing us, particularly the challenges of economic development and territorial cohesion. However, we should be clear: more than following the concerns of Mr. President of the House, we want the autarchs to follow the leadership of the government and the leadership of the PS in defending the development of the Viseu district,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because it has been with us that there has been a strong investment in accessibility, health and even in valuing territorial endogenous resources, as you well know. I would like, as regards the questions put by the honourable Member about the role of the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party in the performance of his political functions on a campaign by the country, to realize that this matter was buried by the National Elections Commission, which, in fact, considered that there were no elements among the facts presented in the unfounded complaints to the National Elections Commission that could substantiate a critical judgment of that political practice. In fact, it is a right of all the secretaries-generals of the different parties, at times of election campaign, to explain to the citizens the vision that is held for the country and, at the same time, to summon the autarchs from all over the country to participate in this effort to transform the economic and social conditions of our populations. You, from the takeover, are also called for that responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They allow me, in fact, still on this issue, because I know it was a very glossy issue in the election campaign, which recalls an opinion of the Attorney-General of the Republic of 9 December 1993, precisely on a complaint against Prof. Cavaco Silva, at the time also a Prime Minister in the performance of his party campaign functions. There was someone who complained to the National Elections Commission, because it understood that the candidate for the Democratic Social Party, something that the Attorney General's Office of the Republic did not accompany, in fact, the following: if we had this understanding, that a person responsible for the performance of local or national government functions would be prevented from participating in the electoral campaigns, that would lead — now I will use the words of the Attorney General of the Republic — "to whom, once the electoral process has been initiated, no holder, government member, mayor, president of the council, or minister of worship, could publicly argue in principles of action or political doctrine. Do not keep on seeking. ” I believe that this matter is buried and, if necessary, we have this opinion, which has made doctrine in relation to the present and the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u25	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u26	As for the commitments made during the election campaign, responding to Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP, and also to Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP, I would like to take into account the following: the commitments which are publicly undertaken are commitments that were not only and strictly presented in the election campaign, are known commitments. What is surprising, in fact, is that the ladies and gentlemen. Members have not been concerned about what commitments the Portuguese State has made before the European Union and for which we are all committed, as a national community.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u27	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u28	I will finish, Mr. President. Or we show the ability to implement these political commitments, with investments in mobility, transport, housing, health, public school, universities and research centres, or the country will not receive European financial support for its development. That is why, as I said, everyone's responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u29	Returning to the requests for clarification, Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Luís Carneiro, would like to welcome democratically the intervention that you just made on the elections held last Sunday and would like to share some of the greetings you led. Firstly, I would like to share the greeting with all the citizens who have participated in this important electoral act and to welcome the citizens who have presented themselves as candidates to the various local authorities, to the municipal chambers, to the municipal assemblies, to the assemblies of parish, in number of thousands, representing precisely the value that the local power has for the democratic participation of the citizens and for the exercise of power by the citizens. I would also like to share with the thousands of citizens who have ensured the functioning of the electoral act, under conditions of great personal sacrifice and penosity, which are, of course, aggravated by the pandemic situation, which has forced many hours of stay in the voting assemblies to ensure all operations. I would like to welcome democratically all the electors of last Sunday and stress the democratic importance of local power in our country. As it is known, with regard to the United Democratic Coalition, the CDU, there were municipalities where it did not achieve the objectives proposed and there were municipalities where these objectives were achieved. But I would like to point out that the CDU continues to be, by far, the third autonomous political force in our country, with 19 majority in municipal chambers, two of them in district capitals, with 148 directly elected in municipal chambers and with about 2000 direct electors, between municipal chambers, municipal assemblies and Fregue assemblies. The guarantee that we want to give, taking advantage of the speech that you have made, is that these 2000 CDU voters, both in the majority and in the minority, will remain faithful to your great commitment, which is to do everything, to give all your abilities and skills, in defence of the interests of the people. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u31	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Luís Carneiro, I would first of all like to greet all those who were elected, last Sunday, for the performance of autonomous mandates, in the most popular elections we have in our democratic panorama. I would also like to welcome, because it is no less important to do so, those and those who, having not been elected, have participated in this election campaign, because tens of thousands of them and of them show how plural our country is, how our country is rich in ideas and is able to make the autarchic a party of democracy, in an electoral act — now it is also appropriate to say that — which has resulted from a generic democratic normality, even in a still difficult period, in which the pandemic is not overcome. From that point of view, I think we should rejoice at this process and at the maturity that our democracy has taken. I would also like to say that, on the left side of the Block, the results are not satisfactory, in view of what we would like, in actual elections. But unlike what we have seen in the electoral campaign, or some temptations that always exist in post-election periods, we do not confuse the local power, in each of its identities, in each municipality, in every parish, with the national political scenario and, in particular, with that which we see here, in the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, from our point of view, we really wanted this idea to be absolutely clear: what happened, as an authentic election, to each of the French and every one of the municipalities concerns, and it does not affect anything else — except in respect that the Assembly of the Republic and the Government should have by local power—either our identity, our sovereignty, or our legitimacy, as political decision-makers, in this Assembly of the Republic. Having said that, when I made the necessary notes on the elections, I would like to ask you a very particular question. Much has already been said about the need for the government to respect the independence of the local authority. I believe that this is a fundamental factor: not to look at the colors of those who are in front of the authorities, but, yes, to the people of each of the authorities and to respect for their legitimate expectation, as regards participation in the indigenous destinations.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u33	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u34	I will finish, Mr. President. But there is a reference which you have made in your speech that you would like to deepen a little further and that has to do with regionalisation. We have heard many times the Government say that there is no regionalization while there is the current President of the Republic. We heard the Socialist Party and the parliamentary group say exactly the same thing, but the honourable Member said something a little different. I would like you to clarify it, to see if in fact something has changed nationally with these autarchic elections, to the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u35	Mr. José Luís Carneiro, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to begin by replying to Mr Filipe, who, fundamentally more than a question, made an intervention on the importance of being a political platform, with a view to ensuring the autonomy of local democratic power and serving development. I would say that this platform is all the more important, because it has been indispensable, particularly in the dialogue that has been formed in the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and, also, in the National Association of Freguesias itself, in which the different parties promote essential understandings so that democratic local power is a foundation and a tool for the implementation of policies and for the implementation of public policies, so that this implementation will contribute decisively to the quality of life of our populations. We could therefore not agree more with what has been said right now, about the importance of this same platform and interparty political dialogue, as we were essential to development. With regard to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I should like to take account of the following: as mentioned, we also agree that there is a local dynamic. There are, from the outset and first, local political projects which, of course, have larger or smaller bridges with national policy proposals. Then there are local interpreters and, as we know, there is a relative personalization in the relationship between voters and voters in local terms. And that is why we also have so many surprises on the election night of the elections, because whether we want or not, voting is not strictly ideological, it is a vote in which candidates effectively count on the choices of voters. With regard to the objectives of decentralization, which was also one of the topics put by Mr António Filipe, on this subject we have a very clear position. We are currently one of the deepest processes of transfer of new powers and competences of municipal powers to the parish, to the municipalities, to the intermunicipal communities (IMC). In fact, around EUR 1000 million is planned to accompany this strengthening of the transfer of competences and new responsibilities and, as you know, during this legislature we also take a step to strengthen regional powers, with the indirect election of the presidents and one of the Vice-Presidents of the Regional Coordination and Development Committees (CCDR). Now, as has been stated by all the leaders of the major political parties and even of different bodies of sovereignty, it is necessary to prepare the way, and this is the time to consolidate the process of decentralization and prepare the popular consultation for 2024, with a view to aquilating the desire of the Portuguese to move forward with this reform and with this transformation of the administration, bringing the power of the regions closer and thus reducing political centralism,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u37	Mr. Deputy, to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u38	... that still prevails in Portugal and, at the same time, contribute to a more balanced and sustained development in the country. Mr President, if I may, to conclude, I would like to leave a word of thanks to the autarchs and the autarchs who have now given up their duties, or by limitation of mandates, or because they have failed to win the elections. And I wanted to do it in the person who was and has so far been the President of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, Manuel Machado, and also in the person of the President of the City Council of Lisbon, who leave important marks in their cities. On behalf of them, for them and through them, I thank all the candidates and all the candidates who served our country. Thank you very much. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u39	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue with the political statements, I would like to compliment you on the presence, in the galleries, of a group of Members of the Islamic Republic of Iran, who form part of the Parliamentary Group of Friends of Portugal-Iran. [[PSP and PSD ( standing), BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u40	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with our agenda. Mr José Silvano of the PSD now has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The elections, which took place on 26 September, constituted a real party of democracy. They involved more than 180 000 candidates from the various local bodies, municipal chambers, municipal assemblies and Freguesian assemblies. It can be said that they are an election of the people, for the people. It is the people to choose those who, in proximity, can improve their quality of daily life. Therefore, the President of the PSD soon stated, when he was elected for the first time, that the elections are the most important in the country because they are the ones that most influence the quality of life of the population. I leave a recognition and a praise to all the candidates who have committed themselves, with heart and soul, to the election of their representatives in all the lands of this country. I would also like to say a word about abstention, which rose in comparison with the last elections in Portugal and was the second highest rate of abstention since the first elections in 1976. Abstention is the main problem of representative democracy. Therefore, the active democratic participation of the Portuguese population is a concern that lacks an urgent reflection of all political forces, to find proposals that increase the participation of voters. The time extension of the voting tables up to 20 hours was not the solution to the problem, as has been demonstrated. Our proposal, submitted in due time and unfortunately plummeted, to postpone the electoral act for 60 days, due to the pandemic situation, would certainly have contributed to a campaign of greater proximity and to reduce the abstention and strengthen the role of democratic institutions. [[PSD applause.]] The right to vote by citizens is one of the essential pillars of a democratic rule of law and should not be conditioned by fears and fears arising from the pandemic, and should, rather, occur in the context of maximum freedom of action. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, elected by the local authorities, should concentrate on strengthening their powers and powers to respond to the recovery of the economy and the application of Community funds — the Recovery and Resilience Plan and the Community Support Framework ( CSF). This plan was propagated by the Prime Minister, who travelled the country in Romania, promising everything to everyone, claiming that the autoarchs would be his executioners. For, then, to give body to these words, let the autarchs be the true executioners of this plan. [[PSD applause.]] The Portuguese are full of promises and have not forgotten that during the pandemic the government promised more than it could fulfil and had to be the autoarchs to support families and businesses, where the government failed. It was the authors, with their close intervention, who addressed the failures of the Government, whose measures, directed at the authorities, did not contribute to any effective and necessary support for the liquidity of the authorities, nor to mitigate the enormous financial effort in which they made, calling into question the capacity of more intervention by local voters. I recall that the PSD presented, in this House, several proposals for strengthening the activities of the authorities, some approved and improved their performance, but others rejected by the Socialist Party. I am referring to the possibility of deducting the value of benefits to the Municipal Support Fund ( GEF ) of expenditure on the acquisition of equipment, goods and services in the fight against the effects of the pandemic. I am also referring to the extension of the layoff to municipal companies, to the strengthening of the capacity to respond to the parish, which are not smaller authorities in the provision of services and support to people in a vulnerable situation. As you are aware, the implementation of the Recovery and Resilience Plan will coincide in time with three years of final implementation of Portugal 2020 and four years of initial implementation of the next framework, adding the programmes managed directly by the European Commission, in particular Horizon Europe. We want the PRR not to neglect the areas of competence of the municipalities, in areas that are absolutely decisive for the recovery of the country and for its balanced economic and territorial development. The PSD intends to assess and introduce legislative amendments that strengthen the autonomy and decision-making power of our chamber presidents, allowing for increased financial resources to deal with such extraordinary situations. We continue to defend our usual objectives, such as the budgetary balance of the authorities and the reduction of their indebtedness, but we cannot ignore that the authorities need means, not only for times of emergency, but also to boost economic and social recovery in the post-pandamy period. A first step has been taken in the decentralization and democratization of decisions, with the approval of the law on the operation of the CCDs, but we need to go further on this path to strengthening the autonomy of the local power. After the results have been completed, the PSD is pleased to have achieved all the objectives it proposed: to have more chamber presidencies, more elected in municipal bodies, more votes than in 2017. But there are three pressing political marks in these autarchic elections that we can not fail to highlight today: the recovery of the municipality of Lisbon is an impressive mark of these autarchic elections; the strengthening of the deployment in metropolitan areas and the loss of the absolute majority in the port chamber;...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u42	Mr. Deputy, to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u43	...the conquest of the absolute majority of the district capitals—is almost a goled! — 11 for PSD, 5 for PS, and the exceptional rise in Alentejo, with 10 municipal chambers in those territories. These indicators demonstrate the clear political victory of the PSD, in these autonomous elections. We reverse the local political cycle announced in 2009, and we are in a better position to be the alternative to this government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u44	The Bureau shall record three entries for requests for clarification. Mr President, how do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u45	Mr President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u46	Thank you very much. The first request for clarification lies with Mr João Paulo Correia of the PS, whom I shall immediately give the floor to.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u47	Mr President, Mr José Silvano, from the PSD, it is not worth concealing the reality of the data and facts: the Socialist Party won the presidential elections last September 26th. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it clearly won: 152 municipal chamber presidencies against 115 PSD presidencies. A clear difference, which leaves no doubt as to the winner of the elections. Looking at the number of votes, the Socialist Party collected 1 850 000, PDS 1 590 000, also a clear difference in what concerns votes in each party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we look at the mandates, the Socialist Party has 912 mandates, PSD 787. And these PSD data, which I am referring to, already include the numerous coalitions, more than 40, that the PSD did in several municipalities to reach the presidency of their municipal chambers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And if there are any doubts about these numbers—and the statistics are unforgettable! — it is sufficient to look at the presidencies of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the National Association of Fregues,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...because it only presides over these institutions who have won more cameras and who have won more meetings of parishioners. These numbers also say the following: the Socialist Party had the third consecutive victory in autarchic elections and continues to be the largest indigenous party in Portugal, with presidencies of chambers and councils of freguesia, from north to south and in the archipelagos. It's a party with national autorquical deployment. In the rostrum, the honourable Member made a number of points which greatly contradicted the accusations made during the election campaign by the leader of the PSD and many of his leaders. The honourable Member said that municipalities are fundamental to the implementation of the PRR and the recovery of the economy. It was necessary to pass the elections in order to recognize that the PRR debate in the autarchic elections was fundamental. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The implementation of the PRR, Member of Parliament — as you and all parties say and stand for — is not solely the responsibility of the central State, it is up to the municipalities, and it is up to the autarchs. The debate on the implementation of the PRR, of the major projects of the PRR, municipality to municipality,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u48	Mr. Deputy, to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u49	... the region of this country, was fundamental and had all the opportunity in the elections. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u50	For a new request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u51	Mr President, I welcome you as well as the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Silvano, I take this moment to be able also to transmit the NAP position on these elections. Moreover, for us, the elections are of particular importance, not only because of the participation of all and all citizens involved in the processes as candidates, but also in the voting tables, in which was a long day and a long journey. It is clear that these elections result in a consolidation of the NAP in the municipal assemblies to which it has applied, but also a growth in the assemblies of parish, where we will seek, with a high sense of commitment and responsibility, to do a work of proximity. Mr President, I have listened very carefully to your speech. He referred very much to the roles that the authorities will be covering up in the next four years, very important roles because, basically, we face challenges that are extremely relevant to local power, since economic recovery after this health crisis, to social recovery, but also with regard to the transfer of competences. The authorities will play a key role, in particular in the demand for an appropriate financial package to enable them to make and consolidate this effective transfer of competence. In the speech of the honourable Member, however, I have not heard a single reference — and therefore I leave this question — to the fundamental role that the municipalities will have as local policymakers in adapting the territory to climate change. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to know what your party's commitment will actually be in those municipalities where it will have responsibilities on this matter so fundamental, because the climate crisis has not disappeared.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u52	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr. João Almeida, of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Silvano, wanted to begin by complimenting you on the topic of your intervention and on the election results achieved by the PSD. Of course, I would also like to welcome and stress the importance of many coalitions in this respect. I don't see the problem the Socialist Party sees in other parties when they connect. We have, of course, the advantage in all these electoral victories—e.g. Coimbra, Lisboa, Funchal or Portalegre, among many others—of having made a transparent coalition and we will rule all these cities because we are linked before the elections. We told voters what the project was, how we would rule and rule like this. Specialist in ruling without telling the Portuguese how he would do it is the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party is that it specializes in making agreements or coalitions on the back of the Portuguese, it is not us. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] So if anyone has any problem with such agreements, it is the Socialist Party, which, of course, even has more and more problems with such agreements, but one should worry about it and not about the rest. I would like to say, Mr José Silvano, that these results are important because in fact they have allowed a change in many major municipalities in the country and this change was a clear option for voters. I would like to ask you why it was not so in all municipalities if, in one or another — in those in which the PSD will govern, in those where the PSD will govern associated with the CDS and other parties, but also in those where the PSD will be opposed or we will also be opposition to the coalition — it will be, or not, priority to demand the Socialist Party's Government the numerous commitments presented by the Socialist Party during the election campaign, in everything it is municipality. I give him an example: in my municipality, where I liked to head the list of a PSD-led coalition, the Socialist Party continues to promise the same requalification as the Vouga Line that it promised since it began ruling. So, if in St John of Madeira we will certainly demand the re-qualification of the Vouga Line that the Socialist Party promises, what I ask is whether or not it is decisive that, in this authentic mandate, exactly taking advantage of the fact...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u54	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u55	... of having — I shall finish, Mr President — the largest amount of funds that we have ever had, that the local power is valued and that, contrary to what happened in the election campaign, is the decisive local power in the choices to make in investment and not a Prime Minister who thinks he owns all the municipalities. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u56	With no further registrations for requests for clarification, you have the floor to answer, Mr José Silvano.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u57	Mr President, before replying to Mr João Paulo Correia, I also wanted to correct Mr Luís Carneiro, who said that the PS was the only party that competed alone in all the councils of this country. In fact, I haven't seen the councils one by one, but I know of two that this assertion is perfectly...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u58	That's not what he said!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u59	I said, here, with all clarity! I know at least two councils in which the Socialist Party did not have its own list and supported independent lists. I can say it with all clarity. Then, responding to Mr. João Paulo Correia, it seems that we are like in polls. With the honourable Member giving the numbers of electors, of chambers and of fregetes, we are like in polls.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u60	Say the numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u61	I'll tell you!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u62	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u63	His colleague, José Luís Carneiro, had already invented more municipal chambers than there are.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u64	That's not true! They're negationists of numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u65	I'll tell them! Now, Mr. João Paulo Correia comes, with the numbers, to invent another solution. So I'm going to give you the numbers that have been released so far by MAI ( Ministry of Internal Administration ).
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u66	They're waiting for the MAI tops! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u67	First point, which I know, of difference between PS and PSD, there are only 373 elected, in total, and not the number that you mentioned. Second, the PS has only 40 more fregetal joints than the PSD. This to make it clear! And if that's little, it's true, but it's easy: take the numbers, make the accounts...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u68	According to MAI numbers, they had less than us!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u69	But do you need any numbers now? Oh, my God! I think it's funny: they've already won because they've had less than us! I didn't want to go back to 2013, a year in which, despite having had 149 cameras—one more than they had now—they thought it was a little bit small and a party leader was resigned because of that. That is perfectly true! [[PSD applause.]] But I also wanted to tell you that, in relation to...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u70	The numbers say you won the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u71	At least I could say they won for a little bit! What I do not understand is that this victory, for the first time, is counted with PSD alone and PS alone, with PSD in coalition and PS in coalition, when, in terms of final accounting, camera chairs are assigned to the party that heads these coalitions. [[PS Deputy Protests Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] It has always been and will always be like this! That is why the final result, for this victory that they say is so loud, is 373 elected. That's what's clear and that's what's in MAI.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u72	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u73	They're still going to win the elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u74	As for what I said, in Lisbon at least we won! And it was by more than 373 votes: it was by 2800 and such votes. So in Lisbon we won!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u75	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u76	With regard to Mrs Bebiana Cunha's question, I would like to say that climate change will always be a concern. With regard to Mr. João Almeida's question, I am convinced that, as in the pandemic, the PS will fulfil some of the commitments, but of course it will not have any money to meet half of those who were assumed by the Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u77	You now have the floor, for a political statement, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over the past 10 years, Parliament has investigated the crimes, fraud and abuse of an elite who has seen the passport in the bank for easy power and enrichment. from BPP ( Banco Privado Português ) to BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ), passing through BPN ( Banco Português de Negócios ), BCP ( Banco Comercial Português ) or the General Deposit Box, these stories were told and documented. Of all these cases, there was almost always the bitter taste of impunity resulting from a system unable to prevent these crimes and to punish them. To date, the Banco de Portugal cannot explain to the country why it has spent so many years looking at the Portuguese bank without wanting to see anything: the fraud in the BPP, the phantom bank of BPN, the offshore accounts that inflated the actions of the BCP, the support of Caixa to assault the same BCP, the drainage of BES resources for the GES ( Grupo Espírito Santo ), the money laundering of the Angolan banks in Portugal and the Portuguese banks in Angola. None of this was visible to a supervisor who, more than to supervise, wanted to be in the good graces of the regulators. In justice, the processes are dragged, testing the patience of a country that assists, powerless, the succession of financial scandals. We well know how difficult and complex the investigation of the great economic crime is. The disparity of means between researchers and researchers is alarming. Megaprocesses are dragged in time, prescription is short-term, and crimes of intent are slow to prove, but little or almost nothing is said about the real cause of things. in this addicted game, when following the course of a euro, from origin to destination, there is always a mess of offshore accounts, financial vehicles and iron heads, a maze carefully designed by renowned consultants and lawyers. So well-known that we find them here, in Parliament, to exclaim that corruption is enough or, on a daily basis, in the media, commenting on the subjects of the day. In the case of Rendeiro, one of these lawyers architects of mazes was José Miguel Júdice, the famous television evaluator of vices and virtues of the square. Faced with any setback by a banker such as João Rendeiro, his lawyers and consultants know that they have put a link to this chain in Switzerland, Panama or the Cayman Islands, he guarantees months of delay of judicial investigations pending an exchange of information agreement. At the end of everything, even if justice has completed the puzzle in time, there will still be those who argue, from the height of their reputation, that everything has been done by legal means. Whoever has the right resources uses the law to escape the law. Even so, sometimes the stars align themselves, wills are organized and a just condemnation is possible. Sometimes it is possible to have three convictions, as in the case of João Rendeiro. This is where the problem of regulation and research is added to another: the problem of effective punishment. The system insists on proving that impunity is a privilege that money and power can even buy. In 2013 João Rendeiro was sentenced by Banco de Portugal to a fine of EUR 1, 5 million. In 2015 it was the time of the CMVM ( the Securities Market Commission) to determine a penalty of EUR 1 million. Both fines were confirmed by the courts, but they were to be paid. In July 2020, João Rendeiro was sentenced to five years and eight months in effective prison due to computer falsity. After one year, the Constitutional Court confirmed that it would not admit the appeal, which means that it has been known for months that this sentence would be final. In May 2021, Rendeiro was sentenced to 10 years in effective prison for crimes of tax fraud, mistrust and money laundering. Yesterday, the former banker was again sentenced to another three years and six months for ridicule, but this time Rendeiro was not in court to hear the judge's sentence because he was in London, from which he told the country that he had no intention of returning and serving his sentence. And there are several questions we do not want to keep silent: what was a man doing in London twice condemned for economic crimes, within days of his third conviction? How is it possible to exclude the risk of escape in such a case? Why did a judge decide—does he have a name? Oh, my God! — grant João Rendeiro a coercion measure which is, in fact, a tacit escape permit to a convicted criminal? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block scrupulously respects the principle of the separation of powers, but this constitutional guarantee that protects our democracy is not a vote of silence or a dispensation of democratic scrutiny of the operation of the judicial system. Decisions taken on obscure criteria and with such serious consequences undermine not only the application of justice, but all its credibility in the eyes of the population. João Rendeiro will now meet with the fortune he accumulated and hid in any offshore. The migration of money has been protected by the absurd rules of the economy. Your personal escape already has direct responsibilities in the judicial system. Democracy requires that they be identified and investigated to the latest consequences. We definitely pay a judicial system for the crimes to be punished, whether they are practised by those who have everything or by those who have nothing. We reject a judicial system that ends its work wishing those who condemn them to make a good trip. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u79	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has three requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u80	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u81	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I begin by greeting her for bringing to debate the case of the former banker and former president of the BPP. It is, moreover, a case that looks more like a fiction film, but unfortunately it is not a film. It really happened, it is happening and, in spite of everything, we will expect that all means will be made available and that all efforts will be convened so that the Portuguese State can, in time, get the main artist in this case to correct the accounts that it has to deal with with justice. As a matter of justice, however, it does not cease to have political relevance. And you have it for a number of reasons. First, it has political relevance because it was the Portuguese taxpayers who were forced to pay the invoice of the bankers' irresponsibility. It is recalled that the collapse of the BPP, despite having already occurred after the BPN case, still had very negative consequences in the financial system considering the potential contagion effects it caused in the system, above all at a time when we were experiencing a financial crisis. Secondly, this case has political relevance because it is not tied to a structural problem of our justice and that it has to do with its timeliness, even because justice is an absolutely central pillar of our democracy, a fundamental element of the democratic rule of law, and a delayed justice is not, at all, justice. But it also has political relevance because it is cases like this that weaken the idea of justice in the eyes of citizens and discredit the rule of law and even their own institutions. This is very worrying, because it remains the perception that justice does not work for the powerful. The most unprotected have no access to justice, those who are subject to rules and decisions, but the powerful always escape. If it's not for this, it's for that, but they always end up running away. Mr Mariana Mortágua, what I would like to ask is whether we agree with us when we say that this is another case that also weakens the idea of justice and the rule of democratic law itself in the eyes of the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u83	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Monica Quintela.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I welcome her on the subject that she brings, because indeed, she shows the claudication and bankruptcy of the financial system and the legal system, which are interconnected. The flight of João Rendeiro is clearly a heavy defeat for the judicial system and for those responsible, politicians and decision makers, of the process and of the cars in particular. The idea that permeates the common citizen is the total impunity of the rich and powerful, and this is very dangerous, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because it feeds on the populisms that are made of these kinds of ideas. Rendeiro was convicted, with a decision already passed — one of them! — by events in 2006. The first sentencing sentence dates from July 2020, 14 years later. That decision, which passed into trial about 15 days ago, that is, more than 15 years later, gave time for everything, gave time to flee and we could talk about the contours of the escapes, but that was already another five hundred. This decision shows slow, stopped and heavy justice, and a justice that is slow, stopped and heavy is not justice. It is not justice for those who are innocent and it is not justice for the guilty. There has been a long time since the PSD called for a reform for justice, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you've only got your musketed ears. It's all deaf, don't listen! It is necessary to change the paradigm of obsolete and opaque justice and that is in our hands. This change must go to the core of the structures, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the questions of the lawyers, it is the structures that have passed almost inconsistencies since the New State. The only change that has happened, and I am tired of repeating, was that of the Public Prosecutor's Office becoming an autonomous magistrate of the judges. And this change can never go through the smoothing of guarantees for the defence of citizens — I like to say 'citizens' and not 'accused' — because these safeguards are the pillars that support our democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u85	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u86	I will finish, Mr. President. Rendeiro's escape causes "to enter into his eyes" as it is so pressing that justice is reformed. It's press! Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I ask you: is the Left Block available to embark on this undertaking or will it continue to collide with the government? Is it available? Can we count on you? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u87	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u88	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the issue that brings to this House raises a fair indignation. If Mr. Rendeiro is able to escape justice in Portugal, this will be a sight for the country and for the application of justice. That is why it is important that there should be the possible clearance of responsibilities so that it can be understood why this has happened. More than the perception that we have a class justice, a justice that is hard and implacable to the weak and that is weak to the strong, in this case we are not only facing a perception, we are faced with a concrete fact that proves that it is. That is reason for reflection and everyone should think about and think about who is not fulfilling their duty to have these things happen in Portugal. in this House, as far as the legislator is concerned—although everything indicates that we do not have a problem of legislation here, but a concrete problem of enforcement of justice—we have before us an ongoing legislative process with regard to various corruption initiatives. And we will all have to assume responsibilities in this legislative process, in particular on the solutions and improvements that we can find and that have concrete effects on the fight against corruption, so I would like to make our commitment to this matter clear. in this case, Mrs Deputy, I believe that the indignation that has passed from her intervention is fair, either as regards the functioning of the banking system in Portugal, or as regards the impunity that they have enjoyed those who have broken the financial system at the expense of the Portuguese and both as regards the concrete functioning of the justice system in these cases. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u89	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u90	Mr President, I am grateful for the comments, questions and positions of Mr. José Luís Ferreira, Mr. Monica Quintela and Mr.António Filipe. We did not understand whether the other parliamentary groups did not have a position or simply did not want to demonstrate it and leave it in this debate. I think we agreed on a basic diagnosis. Mr. José Luís Ferreira was talking about a problem of the laxity of justice and he certainly exists. There are, yes, a number of amendments in which Parliament can play an important role, diagnosing the reason for this slowness, realizing the causes of these processes are so complex, so long, so difficult to judge and so difficult to obtain convictions. So, of course, there are progress that needs to be made in the rules of justice. Mrs Mónica Quintela asked whether we were available for a reform of the judicial system. It is important to realize that reform is this and in what sense it goes, because the last time the PSD made a reform of this system closed courts, it increased costs and made it difficult for citizens to access the judicial system. [[Very well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u91	So if this reform is to put an end to the perception, which becomes true, that we have one justice for the rich and another for the poor, surely the Left Block will contribute to it. But there are other issues I would like to leave to the PSD, Mrs Monica Quintela and Parliament, which are the following : and the reform of the financial system? What about the reform of the economic rules that allow these circles and these financial capital movements to continue to exist and to be unpunished? And the just criticism of the offshore, the just criticism of all the mechanisms that continue to be defended and to have their service known as professional? Who's going to reform the financial system? Or will we continue to defend the financial system as it exists, without understanding that at the root of economic crime are the rules with which the economy is made and how this economy itself is so unfair and distinguishes between those who have resources and those who do not have them? An international arrest warrant has now been issued to former banker João Rendeiro. What the country can expect is that it is possible to capture the former banker João Rendeiro so that he will meet the penalty for which he has already been condemned in Portugal, but regardless of his capture and the sight that Portugal has passed, as Mr.António Filipe said, democracy needs answers. The society needs to know who authorized, how and why, the rules that allowed João Rendeiro to be in London at the time this third condemnation was decided. These answers have to exist and this accountability will have to exist in the name of democracy. This is also the message that we want to leave and that we think is so important, because, in this particular case, it does not seem to have been a problem of law or the organization of the system, but rather a problem of decisions within the system and who is responsible for it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u92	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a problem in the registrations and we have a new request for clarification. Finally, the right exists and therefore has the floor of Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u93	Mr President, first of all, I would naturally like to thank Mrs Mariana Mortágua for bringing this issue to the Assembly of the Republic. It is indeed a scandal of Mr. Rendeiro's escape, as it was a scandal in the past that other gentlemen, such as Vale and Azevedo of Benfica, have fled to justice in this way that, as Mr. António Filipe said, and very well, does not have so much to do with the laws that exist in this country, but more with the functioning and application of these laws. Therefore, it is not a legislative problem. I would say to Mrs Monica Quintela that it is not a problem of the lack of so much talked about by the PSD, reform of justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u94	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u95	In fact, she speaks a lot about reform, reform, reform, but we do not know any concrete proposals, except that of the change in the seat of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Administrative Court to Coimbra. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u96	She's blind, deaf and changed. Open your eyes!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u97	That measure we know, but about something concrete that substantially reformes justice, which I know, in this Parliament, has never entered any PSD proposal. So let the proposals enter for us we will discuss them. However, I believe that it is not this reform of justice, that it speaks so much, that it will solve a concrete problem, such as this, of the escape of a convicted criminal, with sentence passed in court, to Portuguese justice, fleeing the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u98	15-year-old surveys!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u99	In fact, there are responsibilities to be learned and these responsibilities must be met. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u100	Asking everyone, including myself, to pay more attention to the registrations for requests for clarification and interventions, I once again give the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u101	Mr President, I begin by thanking Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa for making it more visible and more obvious the silence of the Arrival, the CDS and the Liberal Initiative on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u103	Then I must say that I think we agree on the diagnosis: responsibility needs to be established. I believe that the Socialist Party, as a party of the Government, has a special duty to ensure that all responsibilities are met in this case and that is what we hope will be done. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u104	For a political declaration, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Education is — and must always be — a priority, even more so after almost two years of disturbance, such as those we have had, in which more than one million students have seen their school journey completely disturbed and their learnings committed, as we well know, and as confirmed by the studies that the ministry itself has promoted. But contrary to what the government's announcements would have meant, what we found at the beginning of the school year was that neither the minimum conditions required for any school year were met, the further strengthening of the means required to deal with the obvious delays and difficulties caused by COVID. When more it would be necessary to ensure that schools had all the resources to recover delays and implement appropriate strategies, schools opened doors with the problems of the old and have to face challenges and added difficulties. The government announced the plan for learning recovery, full of good intentions, but the truth is that this did not correspond to structural measures and the reality is what is seen and what are reported by directors, teachers, parents and students. If there is a need to recover learning—and there is immense! — the logical consequence is a greater follow-up, starting with the reduction in the number of students per class, the pedagogical differentiation to respond to each case and the existence of multidisciplinary teams capable of, there, in the framework of true autonomy of schools, coordinating and implementing recovery plans. What is being attended is a chimera, in which it is desired that schools do the impossible: recover lost time and open safely. But there are no teachers, operational assistants, specialized technicians, administrative and concrete measures to allow schools to do so. There are no teachers, and that's unconquerable. The schools have opened without the needs filled and, as has been customary, there are schools in Lisbon, Setúbal or Algarve that cannot put teachers to various disciplines and are not being taken to resolve the situation. Then there is still a lack of teachers at all for some disciplines and no measure is known to meet this shortage and the need to train teachers. On the other hand, the problem of lack of teachers will not be solved without valuing the profession and solving the problem of competitions. The operational assistants continue to be in insufficient numbers, which puts learning and students at risk, this situation is aggravated by the transfer of competences to the authorities, which is already beginning to cause damage, that is, rather than more workers, they are already promoting lay-offs and there are workers to schools hired through temporary work enterprises. at the level of specialized technicians, for example in an aggravated, more than proven scenario of mental health of young people and children, we have a psychologist for thousands of students and the practical impossibility of following them, because in one year they are in one school and in the other year they are in another, such is the precariousness. at school level, everything is in the same — which is definitely not good — with the aggravating that the government wants the school, with the same means as it no longer had, also put the parents, teachers and employees in sports. That's good, but it's not done without moving one millimeter into objective conditions. The government announced this year that it would be and that there would be such a recovery, but it did not happen, and it was not due to lack of warnings and concrete proposals from the CFP. The linkage of teachers, which continues to leave out thousands of teachers, cannot be used to cover a negative balance. In practice, we have fewer teachers than last year — no more — because the number of teachers announced corresponds to those who were already in the system without rights and do not compensate for the number of retirements checked. Of particular seriousness, and demonstration of the government's attitude towards education, is the situation of teachers of public artistic schools, Antonio Arrrio and Soares dos Reis. The Assembly of the Republic approved a law requiring the Government to hold an extraordinary invitation to tender by 13 August for these teachers, but it did not. We are in the last days of September, which is why it is not admitted that commitments are subsequently rejected, and first of all, there is a lack of respect for teachers. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is urgent and requires serious and, above all, concrete measures. It calls for real and visible measures so that the public school can respond to its fundamental mission. They are educational and social measures that are required to remove all possible obstacles, starting with the freeness of exercise forms for all students of compulsory education, as proposed by the CFP to supplement the freeness of school textbooks, which was an important achievement. Basic measures are needed: the reduction of the number of students by class; the guarantee of conditions for individual educational differentiation and by groups; the strengthening of hours allocated for the development of tutorships and mentorships and means for truly inclusive education; the creation and strengthening of specific multidisciplinary teams that link the recovery plans; the effective recruitment of all workers needed to respond to the permanent needs of schools, from educational action assistants to administrative, specialist technicians, senior technicians, teachers and educators; the change of the relationship portal, to meet the real needs of schools; the end of the blockade of access to tables and teaching careers; the elimination of evaluation quotas and the vacancy regime that prevents career progression and completion of all PREVPAP processes (Special Programme for Precise Links in Public Administration ). These measures are indispensable, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and if there is political will, it is possible to solve many problems in public school. This is a real investment in the present and future that cannot be expected, it is an investment whose return is incalculable — students, professionals and public school deserve it. Even in the current framework, it is possible to move forward and it is possible to recover, if the measures corresponding to a true alternative policy are adopted. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u106	Mrs Alma Rivera, you have signed up to request clarifications, five of us. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u107	Mr. President, three and then two.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u108	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u109	Mr President, Mrs Alma Rivera, in this political cycle, we have done so — and when I say 'we have' it is a reference to the Socialist Party, the Government of the Socialist Party and also the CFP — a joint way of strengthening public school. It is true that the PCP usually looks at half the empty glass and we prefer to look at what is missing to do, because we know that a lot is missing to do, but what is missing to do can only be done from what has already been done and what we have advanced. In fact, Mrs Alma Rivera introduces a tone — and the content of her speech shows - that it corresponds to the denial of some things that are done and of some things that are being done, which is somewhat surprising. I would like to tell you that in these years the public school has had an extraordinary professional reinforcement. in this government cycle, 11 000 teachers were linked to the tables. Once again, the number of operational assistants is being strengthened — in fact, the magic number of 5000, with a proposal from the CFP, joining what we were already doing. On the other hand, the number of specialist technicians has been systematically increasing, and the government is trying to solve a situation that affected some of these technicians who could be put in a precarious situation. at the same time, the government has dealt with the building. We have done, in this government cycle, close to 1,000 interventions in schools, and only in recent times have more than 600 interventions of removal of asbestos, an old claim, an old aspiration. We are therefore on the verge of ending asbestos in schools, which is something very important. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, we have continued to strengthen the public school infrastructure. in this academic year, for the first time in terms of internal mobility and in terms of initial hiring, we made an allocation for schools earlier than ever had been done. And schools have the means, by hiring the school itself and by complementing schedules, to continue to respond to the hiring that is dynamic. As the honourable Member spoke about structural measures, she wanted to ask a concrete question and I think it was important for the country that the CFP would answer. The government is working, it is publicly known, in the review of the teacher recruitment regime so that they can have greater career stability, so that schools and educational projects can have greater stability and that the whole country has the right to resources for teachers it needs. The studies are being carried out — needs studies at five and 10 years of age — and will probably be presented according to information provided by the Education Committee. on this basis, conversations have already started, although it does not know what level of formality, but the truth is that they have already started meetings with the unions. This is a fundamental reform that the country has to do to solve the problems of teachers, school and public school. Question: Is the Portuguese Communist Party available for a dialogue to think about in the country, to think about students, to think about children, to think about young people and to be able to modernize the teaching recruitment system in our country? It was very important to have an affirmative answer from the CFP to this question, because this is undoubtedly one of the structural measures that is in the Government Programme and that the country and the public school most need. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u110	For clarifications, Mrs Cláudia André of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Alma Rivera, we know that the last two years of education have brought dramatic consequences to all Portuguese people, the consequences which have become even more serious given the failure of the Government to respond and the inability of the Minister of Education, who continues to fail to respond to most of the problems of the education system, which have been listed here in most cases today. The lack of teachers is indeed a serious problem. In addition, 80% of the Lisbon groups started school year without the majority or all of the teachers and 150 000 students in these and other areas began school year without all the teachers. There is indeed a serious and worrying lack of teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u112	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u113	The fact is that already last year we could have given these phrases — they continue today this year — because last year this was a very difficult problem to solve and this year we continue with exactly the same problem. We had a national teacher contest and nothing was done in the meantime. The problems continue exactly the same. Also for the recovery of learning was presented a great plan—it was a beautiful but illusory show-off. The fact is that at present schools continue to have the same lack of resources as they had a year ago. The fact is that, after a hard year of confinement, they continue exactly without the means to reinforce these learnings with those students with whom they care or say they are worried and that they are those who cannot support them outside the school, so they need the support of the school and the school has neither human resources nor material means to support them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u114	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u115	But it is also true that the CFP has been the hub of the State budgets of these governments. The CFP has enabled or allowed to pass the budgets of the different PS governments. So we bring a very simple question to the CFP: what are the measures that, in the next negotiation of the State budget for 2022, the CFP will impose, as a sine qua no condition, and what will the government have to take? In other words, what are the taxes that the CFP will put to the government in the context of education in Portugal to actually enable or make possible the approval of the State budget for 2022? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u116	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Alma Rivera, I would like to tell you that, on the side of the NAP, we share many of the concerns that have been raised here about the beginning of this school year, particularly those relating to the human resources available in our schools and also with all that has been the insufficient appreciation of these professionals. As far as human resources are concerned, I would like to ask a specific question and I will take advantage of another question as to a standard of the Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ) with regard to the entry of educational officers and significant figures into schools. The first human resources issue concerns general education inspectors. He finished a contest, these general inspectors will start his internship and will perform him by taking a lower income than they would have if they stayed in schools. I would therefore like to know whether the CFP is available to accompany a demand for the NAP regarding the fair valuation of these professionals. Then, in relation to the DGS standard regarding the entry of significant figures into schools, we saw a replication of the standard of the previous year, i.e. significant figures of children and babies entering preschool, daycare centers and the first cycle, for the first time, continue to be barred from entry. We are well aware that, from an emotional point of view, of emotional development and even of security, it is essential that our children and our babies be able to follow up on a significant figure. Like last year, the NAP will enter a draft resolution so that this norm is reviewed and effectively overcome the emotional well-being of our children and the security of them, to the detriment of the obsession of the DGS in being more papist than the Pope. Madam Member, I should therefore like to know whether this requirement of the NAP will be followed in the sense of clarification from the DGS regarding the higher interest and emotional well-being of our children and, of course, also of the families and educational communities who have come to claim the revision of this same standard. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u118	You have the floor to answer Mrs Alma Rivera from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u119	Mr President, I began by replying to Mrs Bebiana Cunha, saying that, of course, we are available to find solutions, particularly to the problem of general education inspectors. The general inspectors have a very important role, ensuring the necessary conditions, especially in a complicated context such as what we have and which requires a reinforcement at various levels. In reply to Mr Porfirio Silva and Mrs Cláudia André, PS and PSD, respectively, I would like to say firstly that we do not look at the empty glass but look at the reality, at the problems and see that there are no solutions to be given or according to the size of the problems. We are not here to delude ourselves or deceive anyone about the current situation. The truth is that the numbers they announce do not take into account that the workers were already in the system. So when he speaks of these numbers, they are teachers who were already working and still were not sufficient for the needs that existed pre-COVID, the more so now. It should be forgotten, however, that many teachers have also retired, because the average age is beginning to be increasingly advanced, as is obvious, due to the policies of successive governments that devalue public school. But we also do not mislead anyone to come here to lay down responsibilities that are not ours, because there have been no lack of proposals from the CFP to hire. However, after that, they were rejected by PS and its crunch, PSD, structural issues and substantive issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u120	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u121	So the question that arises—and the question that I think should be answered to the country—is the following: what measures to strengthen public school is that the PSD will not fall? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u122	There are two further requests for clarification. Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens Ecological Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Alma Rivera and the CFP for bringing the issue of reopening the academic year for discussion. The school year of 2021 / 2022 began in pandemic, with exceptional rules and with the difficulties we have already experienced for school communities, for parents and teachers and, above all, for students. These are exceptional rules for more and less concrete measures. The Greens believe that several measures, such as the reduction in the number of students per class, should have been taken to start this school year with other means and conditions. There are students without school textbooks, schools without teachers in various disciplines, there are schools without the sufficient number of operational assistants, so necessary for the daily work of educational establishments. Therefore, we said that the investment, which was so urgent for education and schools, announced with pump and circumstance, fell short of the promised. The promises of the Minister of Education over the past two years have not changed from words that the wind has taken. Mrs. Member, do you know where the 900 million for learning recovery stop? The pandemic promised new visions, new investments, an appreciation of the teachers, who maintained their relationship with the students, even with fear, even without means, even to mortgage family life and health itself. With regard to Physical Education and sport practice, the difficulties are even greater. Several times, the Greens have confronted the Minister of Education about the conditions or lack of conditions of the pavilions, the balnearies, the outer spaces, which have become even more difficult now in time of pandemic. We were always told that a great investment was being made, but the fact is that the group of teachers of the discipline of Physical Education of the School EB 2 / 3 John de Meira, in Guimarães, refused, at the beginning of this school year, to teach practical lessons, due to lack of conditions and security. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u124	Do you have that flag asbestos, sir? Mrs Deputy, do you think it is acceptable that in a school where 4, 5 million euros were invested for requalification in 2010 has not yet been built the flag so necessary in 2021? [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u125	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u126	Mr President, I would like to greet Mrs Alma Rivera for bringing this very important issue here. We have seen that many of the measures to combat the pandemic, with regard to education over the past two years, have not passed from repeated and circular announcements. We also saw, as sometimes the same resources were announced several times, as if they were multiplied at school, when, in fact, the only thing that was multiplying was the amount of times that the same resources were announced. We have also seen something else in these two years of pandemic: despite the lack of materials, even with material investment, the difference is made in human resources. Schools are not just robots or computers, and even delivering computers to all students and students, such would not combat inequalities in access to education and educational success, as we would like, because the human dimension would be lacking. It was in that human dimension that the government failed most! The Assembly of the Republic has committed itself to the link between the teachers of artistic public education schools and the government has not met, wanted to make a beer, to open a war with Parliament, to beat the foot, saying that in order to counter Parliament's decision, it would not bind a dozen and a half precarious — or more than that — who have been working in public school for years. He beat his foot in the teacher's internal mobility contest, made hundreds of teachers move to hundreds of miles of home, made teachers of the picture overcome by teachers with less years of service. He beat his foot in the binding of teachers by the norm-work, imposing rules that were not fair, imposing teachers to compete throughout the national territory, again forcing teachers to travel, but without paying them another 1 cent. at this moment, it is in the human resources that is the great challenge and the great risk of public school, whether on the side of the teachers, who see their precariousness increase and who have no conditions to move to where they are needed, whether on the side of the employees, who are now threatened by the spectrum of municipalization. We already see the public school threatened by phenomena that had been eradicated, such as the phenomena of the CIS (employment-inclusion contracts) and the unemployed, who return to public school and make a total functional dilution and specialization of those employees, which we should seek.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u127	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u128	Mr. President, I will finish. I wonder if it is possible to trust the signs that the Government has given in relation to the preservation of the rights of public school officials and teachers, to trust the negotiation that will come here or if, on the contrary, the signs that have been given are not positive. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u129	In reply, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u130	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking, of course, Mrs Mariana Silva and Mrs Joana Mortagua for the issues brought here, which are, in fact, relevant. Firstly, I would like to begin by saying that, in relation to what is announced for strengthening, a small part is for strengthening workers. So we're talking about all the workers that the public school needs, which are huge. Therefore, the answer is not guaranteed, as we are seeing, at the beginning of this school year. Responding to Mrs Joana Mortágua, and also taking the opportunity to respond to Mr Porfirio Silva, the CFP has always presented proposals for amendments to the recruitment regime and the mobility regime. The PS never came to play! We insist, we have a concrete proposal, the PS has set itself aside, not wanting the needs of schools to be met, not allowing the proposal that the CFP has made to go forward. So the question is the following: where was the PS when we tried to solve the problems of teachers in this House? On the issue of school sports and the degraded public school, for disastrous options made by various governments, I just wanted to add that the government was proud to have done works, but actually pushed the works, the responsibilities and the costs for the authorities. In fact, until a week ago, they confirmed it; until a week ago, it was the cameras that had done these same works and we missed the change of narrative. It is very difficult, indeed, to guarantee school sports when we have impracticable pavilions and when, on the other hand, we do not have physical education teachers. Since there is a lack of teachers in all areas, naturally this situation also reaches the area of physical activity and sport. A very great effort is being made in schools, but it is not enough good will. They need means and the government, as it does not want to open the bonds to the stock market, risks not being able to solve any of the problems and worsen those that already existed. For that, other options are needed, in fact. The CFP comes to appeal again to these options with the proposals that we then present. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u131	It is the time for the political declaration of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mr. Pedro Morais Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS welcomes about 5 million voters who, last Sunday, took part in the elections for the local bodies, but regretting, once again, that the abstention has recorded very high values. We are concerned that since these elections contribute more directly and closely to the well-being and problem-solving of people, the participation rate was 53 %. The CDS also welcomes the thousands of Portuguese who have generously ensured the functioning of the voting tables, in a particularly demanding election, because it is a tripartite election, and under difficult conditions, by the pandemic that the country passes. I also give a word of recognition to the thousands of candidates who, in the lists to the municipal chambers, to the municipal assemblies and to the assemblies of the parish, have ensured the desired plurality. In the CDS, we have no doubt the fundamental mission of the local authorities in offering quality public services to Portuguese, integrating the first and next line of support to families. It is never more important to stress its importance in such essential areas as health, education, school transportation, civil protection, the valorization and dignity of educational equipment, the social responses of proximity, among many others. I cannot fail to greet also all the autarchs of our country, who dedicate their lives and their activity to their land and their peoples, from north to south, from inside to the coast, without ever forgetting our islands. It is also important to welcome, if I may, the meetings of the parish in office. this year, they bore the costs associated with strengthening security conditions during last Sunday's electoral act and the presidential elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u134	These costs resulted from the strengthening of security measures in the sections and voting tables so that all voters could exercise their right to vote in maximum security. The measure taken by the Ministry of Internal Administration, the correct decision — I repeat, the right decision — to reduce the number of voters per vote table, implied a significant increase in the number of voting tables, which involved increased and significant costs for the Freguesian boards and municipal chambers. The parish councils had to create and adapt new spaces for voting venues, rent tents and take many other measures with a view to safeguarding and protecting all voters, so that they could exercise their right to vote safely. These costs, again, unfortunately, have not been borne by the government, which continues to ignore, which shows its pre-eminence attitude, without having the notion of the real country in which we live.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u136	If we add to these extraordinary costs of elections the costs arising from the management of the pandemic at the local level that these parish boards have already supported in support of the populations, we are talking about very significant funds that the government is afraid to ignore. We must not forget that, in addition to the public health pandemic, the country is experiencing a serious social and economic pandemic. contrary to the little brilliant idea we've heard for days that the pandemic has brought us good things, Mr President, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has brought nothing good. I haven't found anything good yet that the pandemic has brought us. I didn't find myself, just like all the autoarchs in this country didn't find anything good that the pandemic brought us. In the fight against the pandemic, the autarchs were the first to reach the populations, alongside those they have always been, and have been their support for a year and a half, especially for the most unprotected, our elderly. With regard to the results, I welcome, for the excellent results obtained, the six camera presidents elected by the CDS : José Pinheiro, in Vale de Cambra ; Luís Silveira, in Velas; Duarte Novo, in Oliveira do Bairro ; Antonio Loureiro, in Albertaria-a-Velha; Márcio da Silva Fernandes, in Santana ; Vasco Ferraz, in Ponte de Lima. A special word for the re-election of Rui Moreira and also a very special word for all CDS candidates who raised the flag of our party very high and who went to the fight. It is also important to highlight the victories of the central right coalitions, particularly in Lisbon, Coimbra, Funchal and Portalegre, among others. And let me highlight the overwhelming victory of the coalition « Viva Cascais », which for the first time in history has achieved the full assembly of parish, chamber and municipal assembly. It is strange, however, that the coverage of the electoral campaign and the results of Cascais have not been particularly noteworthy in the social communication, being one of the main municipal chambers and one of the country's best-governanced, as well as one of the greatest examples in the fight against the public, social and economic health pandemic. It is regrettable that only the ban that the National Elections Commission ( National Elections Commission ) has made to the President of the Chamber for having published on his Facebook the number of infected and the number of new daily cases of COVID-19, this information is relevant in combating the pandemic. In this regard, it should also be noted that the decision of the CNE was appealed to the Constitutional Court, which ultimately gave reason to the President of the Cascais City Council. Therefore, and by other measures taken by the CNE, electoral justice in Portugal must be reformed. The same is obsolete, not guaranteeing equality between applications, and we are concerned about the weakening of the mediator and supervisory powers of democracy. It is urgent to reform the CNE, a body that has not changed since 1978 and has to adapt to the political environment of the 21st century. Do we want swift, strong electoral justice that promotes equality between candidates or do we want electoral justice that only acts for denunciation, not preserving equality between candidatures and with eccentric decisions that lead to many doubts on the part of constitutionalists? The victory of the central-right coalition in Lisbon, which put an end to 14 years of socialist governance — the last four in partnership with the Left Block — is worth emphasis. In fact, this defeat of the Socialist Party was shocking. The voters showed a yellow card to the polls that, for months, sought to discourage and demean the candidacy led by Eng. Carlos Coedas. The voters also showed a yellow card to the Prime Minister, António Costa, who often confused the functions of Prime Minister and the functions of Secretary-General of the Socialist Party in making the Plan of Recovery and Resilience and the European campaign flags. The voters rejected the sovereignty, pre-eminence and arrogance with which the Socialist Party presented itself to these elections, from immediately in Lisbon, where the PS guaranteed its re-election.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u137	Thank you for your closing, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u138	I will finish, Mr. President. And neither the pre-election coalitions that the Socialist Party has established have prevented heavy defeats: in Lisbon, the coalition with the Free did not avoid the loss of 25 000 votes and two councillors; in Cascais, the coalition with the NAP and the Free did not prevent the loss of more than 5000 votes and a councillor, leading to one of the worst results of the history of the Socialist Party. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u139	The Bureau registered a request for clarification from Mrs Carla Borges of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u140	Mr President, I welcome you and your dear colleagues. I address a very special compliment to the CDS for bringing this topic so relevant to debate, a topic, indeed, brought by other parties to this House, on which we have come to discuss and reflect in depth. I am sorry that, even recently, we have heard the other parties bring their reflections, their speeches, once again wanting to delude the Portuguese on this forum, and that now, before the political debate, only one inscription, to request clarification from the honourable Member, has been made, an inscription to make reflections, to underline aspects, to ask questions. by the way, Mr President, we are both left, because the others do not care about political reflection or political debate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] They only care about selling him from his victory speech, made to his image and made to the image of his voters and his autarchs. Mr. President, dear and dear Mr. Members, the elections are certainly one of the moments of political life in our country that makes democracy more dignified and makes life alive and is a moment of affirmation of the importance that public policies have in the territory and its development. in this is probably the last intervention that I will make in this House before taking possession as a councilman in the Town Hall of Tondela, something that I am very proud and very honored, I would just like to welcome all the PSD autarchs who were elected, in the people of Fernando Ruas, Fernando Lopes, António Leitão Amaro, and also all those who have exercised their functions so far, with all dignity and exemption. We have heard that in this House, voting is not a strictly ideological vote. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact. That is why they are elections of proximity and why Lisbon has condemned—and even condemned—the lifeboat that Antonio Costa launched to one of his « dolphins», Fernando Medina, giving victory to Carlos Moedas, giving victory to the PSD. Finally, I'd like to leave you a question. Mr President, will you support the PSD in drawing up the next State budget, in pursuing and defining a set of policies aimed at determining and strengthening the power of the state, the local authorities, whether the municipal chambers, or the parish councils? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u141	In reply, Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u142	Mr President, first of all I would like to welcome and thank Mrs Carla Borges for her question and congratulate her on her election as a nun. For me, it is an honor for your last intervention to be a question that asks me. Thank you very much, Mrs Deputies, and I wish you an excellent mandate as a nun, which you will certainly do. In fact, there have been many justifications given here recently, and rightly so. Who justifies a victory is because you didn't win!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u143	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u144	Who needs to present justifications that he has earned something, then he has not won! We have heard so many justifications! This is because it is clear who wins, and it was not the case of the Socialist Party, who set up justifications behind justifications to give his party a victory that did not exist. He justified, justified, justified, added numbers, numbers and more numbers. [[Protests of PS Members.]] We were almost at the 700 city chambers! Open... Responding directly to your question, Mrs Deputy, surely the CDS will examine the proposals that the PSD will present. The CDS will also present its proposals on local power in the next State budget and we will certainly be here to approve them, fulfilling that plan. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u145	It is the turn of the PAN Parliamentary Group. For a political statement, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: today the NAP devotes its political statement to the need to address and reflect on the energy transition and we begin precisely by one of the most controversial processes related to this issue. To a great surprise of all, the Government launched yesterday the public consultation process of the preliminary environmental assessment report of the Litigation Prospecting and Research Program of the eight potential areas for the launch of competitive procedure for the allocation of exploration and research rights of lithium, as legally required, but whose public consultation process will end on November 11, 2021. It happens that three days ago the Portuguese and the Portuguese were called to the polls. This means that during the next few weeks we will have taken possession of new autarchs, which necessarily conditions their opportunity to participate, thus sending the public consultation process. However, on a subject that has both strategic for the country and controversial for the regions directly and indirectly affected by potential environmental impacts, the minimum expected of the government is serious in the conduct of this process and, above all, respect for the populations and the authorships. Public consultations cannot and should not be a mere bureaucratic formality, they have to be a real possibility of participation by civil society, non-governmental organizations and, of course, by local authorities themselves. At the very least, it was expected that the government would have moved forward with the process still at the time of the issue to be voted on and participated, including by all local stakeholders, before the elections; or it was expected that the Government would not at least decide to move forward with the public consultation process without the new electors having time to take possession — which, moreover, happens only on 20 October — and that, once the take-up took place, it would be given the time needed for all interested parties to be able to participate in the announcement of this public consultation. However, what the government seems to have chosen to do was to steal the one that is one of the main objectives of the public consultation: broad, informed participation and as representative as possible by the citizens and also the municipalities affected. A political option such as this also leads, we cannot ignore, to which, after the election act, people feel separated from politics, and then everyone seems to be scared - as we have heard recently - and lament for the increasingly low levels of civic participation, questioning the reasons for abstention. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the way in which these processes are disrespectfully conducted is surely one of the main reasons why citizens are removed, with a growing lack of participation in public consultation processes, with total discredit on them, which will therefore have an impact on abstention. And anyone who gets hurt in any case is the citizens and the democratic state, because a democracy where there is no participation is undoubtedly a more weakened democracy. In addition, it is seen that the areas under study that the Government intends to conduct the competition have as problematic the fact that in the north and centre of the country, they cover 27 municipalities, of which more than 20 % will change the municipal executive. As we know, the transition from autarchic power does not take place one day to the other and it should only be completed at the end of October, which leaves the new autarchs a deadline of only about 12 working days for pronunciation, and therefore the NAP defends the extension of the public consultation period. We believe that the marking of public consultation at this stage of transition from the local executive authority will not have been intentional and we would therefore like to see the Government promote a genuine public consultation on this matter, with the extension of the deadline, leaving the challenge to that effect already. On the other hand, in a preliminary analysis of the document, we found that the Government, contrary to what it said it would do, did not include in the competition previously defined areas which do not include protected areas of national scope, areas classified under international law instruments and areas covered by the Natura 2000 Network. This has serious impacts on the prospect of lithium in protected areas or sensitive areas, because precisely these eight areas that have now been subject to environmental assessment, areas overlapped with National System of Classified Areas, cover areas such as the areas of Arga, Guarda-Mangualde and eight areas indicated as potential for the launch of competitive procedure may compromise areas classified under international commitments undertaken by the Portuguese State, such as the Reserve of the Cross-border Biosphere Iberian Meseta (RBTMI), the Reserve of the Cross-border Biosphere International Tejo-Taxo, the Geopark Naturtejo da Meseta Southernal and the Geoparque da Serra da Estrela. According to environmental assessment, about 28, 5 % of the total area affects prospecting and research is included in the National System of Classified Areas, under the legal regime of conservation of nature and biodiversity. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the present solution cannot result in tomorrow's problem. We are therefore very careful to see whether the government will effectively exclude in competition for the exploration of lithium, the protected areas of national scope, the areas classified under instruments of international law and, as such, protected and the areas included in the Natura Network, moreover, was stated by the Government itself in the programme for public consultation, meaning that it would not explore these areas. More: we are aware of the importance that lithium can have for the energy transition and that we cannot have a policy of not in my backyard. And the PAN will always be next to the decarbonization. But we cannot allow these solutions to be developed without being properly involved and regulated. In fact, we have clear recent examples, as is the case with Matosinhos refinery, in which not only the announcement was made in a stalemate way as it was not careful that the transition ensured social justice issues, not to cause discredit in the population as to the need for energy and climate transition and not to commit, in fact, injustices and not to question the processes that the country has to develop in order to reconcile the climate action and the ambition of other goals with the one that has to be the necessary creation of new jobs, notably by betting on green entrepreneurship. To conclude, we cannot, in fact, continue to witness environmental and social attacks, as has happened in the case of Matosinhos, the photovoltaic power stations in Azambuja, the Alentejo area, among many other examples in the country, under the penalty of not having a truly effective policy that allows the energy transition to ensure that climate justice also represents social justice. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u147	Mrs De Clercq, you have signed up to make requests for clarification five. Members of the PSD, PS, PCP, Greens and the Left Block respectively. I don't know how you want to answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u148	I will answer three ladies together. Members and then two, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u149	Mr Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD, has the floor, first of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u150	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, although it was yesterday known the lithium preliminary report, that is not why we do not think that this is a good time to bring this matter to plenary. In fact, the PSD has been monitoring this matter for a long time and has also presented a number of initiatives, which have already come from the previous Parliament and which remain in the present. We too are not against the prospect of minerals, but see a wild Arga saw, a heritage like that, which, in fact, is already reserve Nature Network and which has all the municipalities of the Upper Minho making their enlargement to the rest of the Arga mountain, to cover the whole region... More: the agricultural area of Barroso, Montalegre, Boticas, all these areas are areas classified by the UN ( United Nations ) because of its unique characteristics. That is to say, this government programme, in fact, very purposeful, one day after the elections... This is a way of fooling voters, because I believe that, in particular, in the Upper Mining and the Barroso areas, which are on the verge of this preliminary project, probably the results would not be the same. This is to deceive the people and continue to deceive, as has been done in recent times. Yes, because the environmental impacts came after a lot of pressure from both the people and Parliament, where the PSD was, in fact, a fundamental element and always protagonist in this struggle. And what happens? A law was made, so let us say, a « tailored jacket». What is done in territories like the Archae saw? It adjusts so that all areas are covered, adjusting the environmental impact rules in a « customised fact», so that these areas can all be prospecting and mining. This is unthinkable with biodiversity, with the unique characteristics of that territory. [[Meanwhile, PS deputy Miguel Matos shook his head in a sign of denial.]] And it's not worth shaking your head, because I'm from the High Mine and I know that reality very well! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u151	Who doesn't know her, who only knows her from the maps can't shake her head like it's a big nonsense what I'm saying. I know very well the Sierra de Arga, Arga de Cima e Arga de Basso, I know them very well, I go there many times, and to that extraordinary heritage that is there and that you want to destroy, but they did not tell the people of Upper Mininho that they intended to do so. This is important! But the question I leave you with is very simple. As you know, the PSD has submitted a request for parliamentary assessment, precisely from Decree-Law No. 30 / 2021, and we want to know whether the PAN, in addition to these statements on the day following the presentation of this preliminary report, will be with the PSD in this fight, where we have always been. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u152	Mr Hugo Pires of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u153	Mr President, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, I would like to begin by saying that the Socialist Party, firstly, receives no lessons from anyone in environmental matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We were the first country to compromise on carbon neutrality,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u154	Let's take it! ...That's easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u155	... we are the fifth country in the world in which the more renewable energies are consumed, we are a country in which the Socialist Party has presented a bill that the ZERO Association itself says is the most consistent and comprehensive project in relation to combating climate change. Therefore, we have received no lessons from anyone on environmental matters,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u156	It needs to be done!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u157	... much less, and above all, the PSD and Mrs Emília Cerqueira, for whom I have a lot of esteem and consideration. In fact, Mrs. Deputy, this little boy does not really give him anything good—not the fact that he's dressed, but the fact of the politician he's coming to talk to—because it was his government that assigned these authorizations of exploration and research...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u158	Search!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u159	...that we then had to change and solve. And a senior national PSD leader was a partner of Lusorecursors, who owned this lithium prospection. I therefore believe that the honourable Member should study these files better before coming here to talk about anything. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You know that I'm from the Mine, and I also know very well about the Archae saw and on Nature's Network no one will move. More: we have heard Mrs Inês Sousa Real here talking about lithium and saying "no, this, now, there will be..." Democracy is not suspended, Madam Member! Democracy is not suspended and therefore you come here to say... I understand that, in the results of the NAP, you wanted to have councilors and did not have,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u160	Not even the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u161	... they wanted to have another authentic result, probably, in order to have another local approach, but people did not recognize that competence. Democracy is therefore not suspended. Moreover, this government met with what the NAP wanted. The NAP wanted the strategic environmental impact assessment of these eight areas, and we did so; then there was a report of an unsuspecting and independent entity, which is the University of Aveiro ; and now, after these reports are made, we will put in public consultation. But we can't do any more for the NAP. If the NAP wanted to elect more Members, if it wanted to have more local elections, that, we can't do.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u162	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u163	So I want to tell you that democracy is not suspended, the government has not hit, the government is doing what it has committed itself to and, yes, the government is on the right track and we are a global reference to combating climate change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u164	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to congratulate Mrs Inês Sousa Real on this subject. On these matters relating to the exploitation of lithium or other minerals what the CFP defends is very simple: the country has the right to know its resources and, from that knowledge, to decide, on the basis of economic, social and environmental criteria, whether or not it should explore them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u167	The problem we have in Portugal is that knowledge of our resources is given to multinational mining companies and, when prospecting rights are allocated, there is immediately the automatic right to exploit these resources. Now, what we understand is that the only way the country has knowledge of its resources, so that it can decide, on the basis of these criteria, whether or not to exploit these resources, is to have a public entity that can have that role of exploration and knowledge of natural resources. We would like to know if the NAP follows the PCP in this vision. With regard to the risks identified in this environmental assessment, we believe that they are a concern and that, of course, they must be taken into account in the process that will now be followed. He also referred to the issue of Matosinhos refinery in his speech, and this is a subject that we cannot fail to address here, then and beyond the cynicism of the government on the eve of autarchic elections. It is necessary to leave here a word of solidarity for the workers of the refinery of Porto and for the struggle they are fighting. [[Congrats from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] This closure has nothing to do with matters of energy transition, oil will continue to reach Portugal another way. What we believe is necessary for a fair energy transition is to reduce consumption. And, for this reason, measures such as those implemented, advances in the freeness of transport and its improvement are fundamental measures, such as measures to increase national production, in order to prevent products from being produced across the world and come up with enormous environmental costs. These are the measures that need to be taken rather than measures such as the closure of the port refinery, which has nothing to do with the issues of energy transition but with other objectives, in particular the objectives of large oil. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u168	In reply, Mrs Inês Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u169	Mr President, I would begin by replying to Mrs Emília Cerqueira, saying that we agree at all with the view that if the report had been placed before the vote, it would certainly have been possible to conduct a major election of the affected populations and, therefore, of course, we believe that the time it is presented is indeed quite a bit of a time. At the heart of parliamentary appreciation, the NAP will always be at the side of the interest of the people, the protection of the environment and also of biodiversity. If the PSD path is in this sense, of course, you will have someone in the NAP to follow this vision. With regard to what Mr. Hugo Pires said, I would like to say the following: Mr. Member, before trying to teach someone, which is actually what you did in your speech, I would suggest to you a little bit of humility, because in democracy we also need to know the time to discuss certain issues, since what we are discussing here is a very relevant subject for the country and for the affected populations. And, moreover, I repeat again what I said in the gallery. Perhaps the honourable Member is still a bit overwhelmed by the fact that he has not been elected President of the City Council of Braga, and I believe that, indeed, for you, it is worse than the result of the NAP, because the NAP, globally, I remember, has even grown. It may have grown timidly, but given the political-party context that we have today, with much more political force, is not a bad result. So we are not concerned about our outcome, but I, if I were you, was concerned about my own house, Mr. [[PAN's applause.]] On this issue, let me tell you that, indeed, the honourable Member and his parliamentary bench will certainly agree that the local power must be respected. And being making a public consultation in full transition of executives, as long as democracy is not suspended, is not a way of respecting the role and participation of local authorities. But the NAP has already entered into a draft resolution which aims to extend this deadline and to ensure that there is indeed no exploitation of lithium in protected areas and we are aware that either the PS or the other political forces will follow us, for sure, because we are all here moved by the same interest, which is that the public consultation can be involved, as well as ensuring that there is no exploitation in protected areas. As for what Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP has said, I would like to point out that in terms of the exploitation of lithium, the NAP argues that effectively it must be strongly involved by both the people and the local authorities, and therefore there is a sharing of views here. However, we do not accompany Mr Matosinhos when he refers to Matosinhos that there should be no closure of the refineries. There is one aspect in which we agree, which is that a closure can never mean the loss of jobs, but that we have to make an energy transition, which we have to close this type of power plant and this type of exploitation is evident that it has to occur and must create new jobs, and the International Labour Organisation itself ( ILO) has already noted that green employment can create more than 200 million jobs globally. What we can't have is cases like what we saw in Matosinhos, in which, almost a year after the government had had the opportunity to prepare to ensure that no worker lost his job, this transition was not noticed. This cannot happen, because it questions the confidence that must exist in the energy transition and obviously questions the other side of the currency of the energy transition, which is social justice, which should not be left behind. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u170	There are two further requests for clarification, the first of which is from Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, we appreciate the subject brought to debate. The exploitation of lithium has often been used to justify the energy transition. The Greens questioned the government for the first time in 2017 — no one was still talking about it — we were the first to consider, of course, that the essential thing was that people had the right to be heard in advance about what was going to happen in their localities. So we have been accompanying these populations from the very first moment, in these eight places we are talking about today. It is obvious that this energy transition must be made, because Portugal has a strong dependence on oil, natural gas and coal, which we import with a serious impact on expenditure and on the environmental dimension. The transition to energy production from renewable sources and energy efficiency is an imperative because, in addition to obvious environmental benefits, it can guarantee the country's energy sovereignty, with enormous potential to promote it, ensuring the satisfaction of energy services with less final energy consumption. at the level of transport, besides having the most expensive energy and thermal comfort being a luxury, with most families going cold not to pay an invoice of eccentric electricity, what is being verified is a bet on replacing cars moved to fossil fuels by electric cars and this is that it cannot continue, as will Mrs Inês de Sousa Real will agree. Under the cover of combating climate change and decarbonization, the automotive industry and business lines continue to be promoted, with a metal mining that lithium is an example, creating other environmental problems for which Greens have been warning for a long time, such as the destruction of natural areas, pollution, loss of biodiversity, with many concrete impacts on the lives of those populations. So what energy transition are we talking about? What do we want with regard to this path? We could talk about the option of closing production units in Portugal to import production from abroad, instead of improving the processes for less energy consumption, and not only do we not make any transition as we add ecological footprint, or, for example, also place the photovoltaic monoculture in the place of eucalyptus monoculture, as happens in the Heritage of the Bella Tower, in which it was necessary to kill more than 500 animals instead of planting native trees. Is this the energy transition we want, that is, the exploitation of minerals without any evaluation and consultation of the population and then this substitution of monocultures to justify the decarbonization and mitigation of climate change?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u172	For a final request for clarification, Mr. Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u173	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real brought us a subject that allowed us to see the PSD say here that it is against lithium concessions, despite having done so, and the PS to say that it did not want much, that it was almost obliged, because it was an inheritance of the PSD, but that it is now going to do so and that no one dare to teach the PS because the PS will do them and the end point. Mrs Deputy, this is the state of art and so I would like to ask you a few specific questions. We have a parliamentary opinion on the so-called Mines Law, where we wanted to put some amendments and we want the agreement of the NAP. We believe that there should not be new mining projects in protected areas, in areas classified environmentally or in the landscape agrosilvicula do Barroso and we want to know whether the honourable Member agrees with this measure. This law also prohibits almost public participation and it is the State that decides where there is or does not have public participation, in each case, so we also want the agreement of the NAP to have public participation in any case. However, there is still one basic question that we have to decide: what is the energy transition? Is the energy transition to replace cars with electric cars, replace diesel car jams with electric car jams? Surely we will have electric cars in the future, but is this the standard we want in the energy transition or is it the bet on public investment, on rail, on public transport, trying to make public transport as free as possible, as inclusive as possible, reaching more places? What is our strategy of decarbonizing society? And also what is the role of the State in this decarbonization of society? Is it only to see or is it the role of the State to also have public energy companies to manage prices, to intervene in the energy transition to new energy sources, while at the same time fighting an essential problem in Portugal, which is energy poverty, because we have many people who live in their homes and do not have money to heat them because electricity is very expensive? We therefore believe that such an energy transition is needed. On this lithium business, I think we are very much talking about the positions of PS and PSD, which may not want lessons from anyone, but unfortunately, they have the very poorly studied lesson and want an energy transition of the past century, rather than want an energy transition of this century, looking at people, their social rights and the well-being of the planet. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u174	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u175	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Silva, it seems to us clearly that there is a confusion here with that which is the position of the NAP, but also the ENP does not make clear what its position is,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u176	The position of the ENP is clear. Mrs. Deputy didn't hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u177	...because I believe that the ENP does not believe that it is an alternative for the country to continue exploring oil or, for example, to go back to what it is to allow holes in Aljezur for oil exploration. Therefore, the energy transition has to happen, it is a step that the country has to take. If we ask ourselves whether we agree with the major photovoltaic power stations, it is clear that no and the PAN since the first moment that stood next to the populations, for example, in the movement Together by the Cerceral do Alentejo. Also in Azambuja we do not agree that photovoltaic power stations are installed in places where there is biodiversity, where there is a green spot, because that is not the way the country should follow. The road must go by not only fighting the monopolies that exist from the point of view of production and energy, but also bet on what is microproduction, bet on a capacity of energy autonomy in the country itself with the dispersion of photovoltaic panels, for example by taking advantage of surfaces as well as buildings, especially public schools and buildings, among many other examples that could be given. Therefore, there must not only be a strategy for the country, which at this time clearly does not exist, more based on what must be the conjugation of the various modes of energy production, there must be an energy diversity to ensure that this transition is made properly to each reality and to each region of the country itself. Now, for the NAP, this is very clear and I assume that the ENP effectively does not want to return to oil and therefore will agree with us that the problems it has listed cannot be problems in the future, but that they do not actually go through the solution it has presented. With regard to the issues which Mr Nélson Peralta has put on Parliament's assessment, he has in fact touched on some of the issues which are quite relevant: we have a serious problem in our country, either from the point of view of energy poverty, which needs to be tackled, or from the monopolies that have been established and that we have not been able to break. Thus, in the view of the NAP, it is essential that we bet on energy autonomy not only so that people do not live in poverty, but also not dependent, wanting and able, on what are the great interests of energy-producing entities. The role that the State itself plays, both in the strategy of decarbonisation and in investment, is also important. I remember that we have already left the criticism that the Recovery and Resilience Plan places everything on that which is mitigation and very little on the adaptation of the territory and, more importantly, the money goes once again to the privates who exploit and who have the monopoly of energy. Therefore, as is clear, not only do we not agree with this vision for the country, as in everything that has to do with new projects, and which also referred, either for the exploitation of lithium, or for the placement of photovoltaic power stations, must be guaranteed that protected areas and sensitive areas are, in fact, untouchable and that exploitation is done in a completely regulated and, above all, participated manner. The participation of citizens and local authorities is something that should not be overpassable, under the penalty of continuing to promote total discredit in both political life and participation in public life. Thus, in order to fight and somehow to give voice to these desires they will always count on the NAP because this has been our position and will continue to be. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u178	We have moved on to the last political statement of the day, and Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the actual elections of 26 September, the political cycle has not changed, but it has begun to change and this process is irreversible. Just see how the major states of the management parties played the fight and they've been trying to figure out what happened to them for three days. The Block got so engrossed that by 10 and a.m. on election night came to say that the best thing was just to talk the next day. They had not yet arranged a way of justifying the loss of almost 20 % of the votes and two thirds of their councillors, of which only four remained. Twenty years after its autarchic debut, the Left Block almost returns to the zero stake. [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]] The CFP is obliged, for the first time in its long history, to consider changing the strategy, and, who knows, leadership, following election results. to the inexorable decline of the party, which has already come far, joins the loss of five more cameras, some clearly painful, and the evidence that John Ferreira, who wins 1400 votes in Lisbon, is the only communist who can hold elected, paradoxically because he seems less communist. I'm up, it looks like it is. The PS is the most disoriented of all. He knows he won the elections because he is the party with more cameras and more mandates, but he also knows that he lost something even more important than the 250 000 votes he actually lost: the perception that many had that it was inevitable that the PS would continue to win elections while there was money. Money from others, of course. Sovereignty and arrogance are expensive in politics and it is not impunity that for weeks will deliberately promote confusion between the PS and the State or sell the PRR, as if the money coming from Europe should not be paid one day for all. The PS propaganda machine took a bath of reality: the Portuguese did not swallow either the radicalization of the speech or the PS narratives as a party to liberation, which is not, nor part of the growth, which has never been or will be. Therefore, what these elections have shown in the kingdom of management is that the PS is punished for abusing the power it has, and would like to perpetuate, either in the central government, or in the parish of Arrouios, while the Block and the PCP live the inevitable fate of political crutches: to watch until they disappear, unless they jump out of time, which is exactly what is causing such disassembly in the major states. [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] Only this disorientation to the left does not have a clear counterpoint in non-socialist space. PSD/CDS coalitions have important victories in emblematic cameras, starting with Lisbon, but do not vote. in this political space are the new parties that grow, but with very different strategies. The arrival has a good autarchical premiere, it appears to be singing victory, but it cannot hide that it is much less than what, with the usual spread, had announced: it is not the third political force in Portugal and it has achieved only 40% of the votes it had in the presidents, despite having presented itself to municipalities with about 90 % of the electorate. Promises a lot, knocks hard on your chest, but everything squeezed gets very little and the balloon is emptying itself. The Liberal Initiative already has an opposite strategy, privileged the quality of applications and not the quantity of applications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u180	He's alive!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u181	He opted for sustained growth, attracting voters who understand and embrace liberal ideas and that is why they are a solid basis for growth. The Liberal Initiative has defined autoarchical goals that have successfully achieved, but that is not why they see us in the kisses of our feet crying for victory. We said we wanted to have an authentic premiere better than the Left Block did in 2001 and the PAN in 2013 in its first local elections. We have succeeded, we have passed these parties in number of votes and in number of mandates. We said we wanted to keep the liberal ideas on the political agenda, now with more local incidence, and we succeeded. Little by little throughout the country in which we submitted candidatures were discussing liberal proposals to mobilize the will and energy of people in each municipality. Proposals such as the full return of IRS to the municipalities, the transparency of the authorities in their relationship with the municipalities, the elimination of fees and taxes, the role of private initiative and competition in solving problems, such as transport or housing, have always been on the agenda. We said that it was important to have liberals to show that liberalism also works at the local level. We did it. From now on, 90 liberal autarchs will defend these ideas and conduct elections in municipalities throughout the country, from rural to urban country. And, above all, we brought to political activity new actors, many who no longer believed in the virtues of civic and political participation. About 90 % of the more than 3000 Portuguese who joined our lists had no prior political experience, most of them young people full of talent and willingness to do something for their country. This is true for those who were on the lists, but it is also true for those who voted on us. That is why we say, at this time when, I remember, the political cycle has not changed but has begun to change, that time is on our side and that the future is liberal. The Liberal Initiative has the great advantage of knowing, and being able to demonstrate, that the ideas it defends work and that this will be evident to a growing number of Portuguese people to whom we will convince, one at a time. That is why we assume that the task of making Portugal a more liberal country is a marathon and that we will not exchange this design for the country for immediate erratic or electoral gains. We will be persistent, we will be consistent, we will be patient and we will be confident, because the future is liberal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u182	To make a request for clarification, Mr. Miguel Matos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, today the Liberal Initiative speaks to us of a different political cycle. And the political cycle has undoubtedly renewed itself in the 308 municipalities of our country. But the political cycle has, in fact, some similarities with the previous one, of course, a majority of chambers and parishes governed by the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u184	Unmanned!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u185	In addition, there is a liberalism beneath the lamb's skin. What have your native candidates demonstrated? More state ideas, more prejudice and more discrimination. And in the face of the attempt to nationalize some local authentic results, it is not worth coming here on Tuesdays and Thursdays to say that the country is more than Lisbon and then, on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, to say that the result of Lisbon is of interest and that the rest is landscape. No, Mr. Deputies, there are no municipalities of first and second. All municipalities have had elections and all the autarchs are interested and are called today to fulfill their task of emancipating young people, fighting climate change and executing the PRR. But the Portuguese know the new cycle that you want to open. It is that the narrative of releasing the country of socialism sounds a little strange to a country that has been releasing a liberal cycle of impoverishment since 2015 which has been truly devastating to many. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the Portuguese have not forgotten this political cycle. We do not forget the liberalisation of dismissal and precariousness. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] We do not forget the privatizations to ruin, the cuts in schools, the SNS and the social state, pushing thousands to poverty. But, you know, Mr President, if we are in a new cycle it is because the Portuguese know the difference between their cycle and our political cycle today. It is that in the crisis, when we followed its revenue of liberalism, unemployment dropped to 18 % and income fell to 10 %. We have grown less than Europe and have failed to reduce the deficit. In our cycle we achieved budgetary balance, we converged, for the first time in this century, and in this pandemic, a government committed to solidarity made, in the worst crisis ever, with an 8 % fall in GDP, income had only fallen 0, 7%.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u186	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u187	Ask the President of the CP!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u188	Therefore, Mr President, it is clear that a certain right has never been able to overcome the battle you lost in 2015 and now wants to force a new political cycle that has not been able to prevail in the polls. This is a strange form of liberalism, Mr President. Don't you think, sir? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u189	To reply, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u190	Mr President, Mr. Miguel Costa Matos, I will tell you what I think: I think you should write the questions after listening to what people have said from the gallery,... [[The CDS-PP Member's laughs João Pinho de Almeida.]] ... because I did not speak again—I said, exactly, that there was not yet—I did not talk about Lisbon. And if you had talked about the cycle of liberalism that you said we had in Portugal between 2011 and 2015 remind you that we had only external intervention because it was a government of the Socialist Party that ruined public finances, it was a government of the Socialist Party that signed the Memorandum of Understanding, and in my book, in the book of the Liberal Initiative, huge tax increases do not fit. They don't fit in our cart! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, with much friendship I tell you, Mr, that it is better to leave the written notes before the interventions and respond to what I said from there. [[Mr Duarte Marques's laughter.]] What I said from there, from the Tribune, Mr Deputies, is very simple: the PS was tied up, not just because it didn't expect to lose Lisbon — and the country is not only Lisbon, there we are 100 % agreeing – as you don't know exactly because you lost in other chambers of the country and because you lost 250 000 votes. That is the « assasrapantation» and the disorientation of the Socialist Party. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u191	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of today's political statements. Mr. Bureau Secretary will give some explanations to the plenary. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members were present at the session, by video conference, Members Olavo Câmara ( PS ), Ilídia Quadrado ( PSD ) and Ana Mesquita ( PCP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-29.u193	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's just turn to the explanation of tomorrow's agenda. In the first point, we will appreciate Bill No 107 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Change the terms of the term of office in the half-time of the holders of the board. In the second point, the joint discussion of the following draft resolutions will be held: No. 272 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The need to resume the requalification works of the High School John of Barros, Corroios ; No. 668 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently resume the rehabilitation of the High School of the Sertan High School Assembly, the Sertan Town Hall, White Castle District ; No. 671 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently promote the rehabilitation of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz, the municipality of Ovar, Aveiro district ; No. 692 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently promote the expansion and rehabilitation of the Secondary School of Port of Mós of the Grouping of Port of Mós, of this same municipality, Leiria district ; No. 702 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the Basic School 2, 3 July Brandão, in Vila Nova de Familialão ; No. 722 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently promote the expansion and rehabilitation of Raul Proença Secondary School, Raul Proença School Group, Queen's Caldas Town Hall, Leiria District ; No. 738 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the secondary school building of Póvoa de Lannoso ; No. 747 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent rehabilitation of the secondary school / 3 Camilo Castelo Branco in Vila Real ; No 750 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently promote the retraining of the Arganil Secondary School ; No. 872 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent and immediate retraining of the EB School building 2, 3 / S Pedro Ferreiro in Ferreira do Zêzere; No. 885 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Recommendation to the Government for the re-qualification of the Basic School 2, 3 and Pedro Ferreiro Secondary School in Ferreira do Zêzere; No. 290 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures for the urgent completion of the works of the João de Barros High School ; No 343 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government urgently re-qualify the School EB 2, 3 Mário de Sá Carneiro, in the Council of Loures, and disclose the timetable for intervention in the removal of asbestos fibers in school equipment; No. 684 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 259 / 2018 and re-qualify the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz, in Ovar ; No. 694 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government ensure that the re-qualification works of the High School of the Sertã are resumed urgently ; No. 708 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — The urgent rehabilitation of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz ( Ovar ) ; No. 710 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — For the urgent start of the retraining works of the High School of the Sertan ; No. 721 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government urgently, programme, agenda and carry out the necessary works for the expansion and requalification of the secondary school in Porto de Mós ; No. 736 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government programme retraining works at Raul Proença secondary school in the Queen's Caldas ; No. 737 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government requalify primary school 2, 3 julio brandão, Vila Nova de Famalíão ; No. 749 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 257/2018 and requalify the High School of Póvoa de Lannoso ; No. 766 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake works at the 3 Camilo Castelo Branco High School, Vila Real ; No. 874 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to the immediate re-qualification of the Basic School 2, 3 and Secondary Pedro Ferreiro de Ferreira do Zêzere; No. 991 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the necessary works at Raúl Proença High School in the Queen's Horses ; No. 1028 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the completion of the requalification works of the High School of the Sertan ; No. 1237 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent requalification of the Camilo High School Castelo Branco de Vila Real ; and No. 1274 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Modernization and requalification of the Camilo Castelo Branco High School in Vila Real ; The third point includes the joint assessment of the following initiatives: Bills Nos. 919 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Sets limits on the advertising of games and bets (Tenth sixth amendment to the Advertising Code, approved by Decree-Law No 330 / 90 of 23 October ), 343 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Sets restrictions on advertising in games and bets ( tenth amendment to the Advertising Code, approved by Decree-Law No 330 / 90 of 23 October ), 951 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the Advertising Code in order to make mandatory the warning of the potential of creating dependence in social games, such as Euromillions, Raspadins, Totobola / Totoloto and Lotteries, and 952 / XIV/ 3. a (PAN) — Limits advertising to games and bets and approves consumer protection measures and promotion of literacy on the risks associated with the game, making the tenth amendment to the Advertising Code, approved by Decree-Law No 330 / 90 of 23 October. Finally, we will proceed to the evaluation of the Resolution Project No 1445 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Increase in national minimum wage. We have reached the end of this plenary session. I wish you all a good afternoon. See you tomorrow. [[It was 17 hours and 42 minutes.]]
