ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u1	Resume session. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. High Senate, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by two points: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 45th anniversary of the tragic December events on the Coast The second reading of the draft resolution on the 10th anniversary of the oath by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński and consider it as point 14. At the same time, I propose that these points be considered immediately after considering the draft resolution on the establishment of 2016 in the Year of Henryk Sienkiewicz. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2016 by Henryk Sienkiewicz. I would like to welcome the representatives of the government, representatives of local authorities and cultural and scientific institutions associated with Henryk Sienkiewicz's work at the meeting. Welcome very cordially to Minister Jarosław Sellin, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. I welcome Mr Maciej Cybulski, director of the Henryk Sienkiewicz Museum in Wola Okrrzejska; I welcome you very warmly. Hello, Mr. Robert Kotowski, director of the National Museum in Kielce. Hello Professor Maria Bokszczanin from the Institute of Literary Research of the Polish Academy of Sciences. I warmly welcome Mr Jerzy Siwc, secretary of the district of Archiv; Mr Roman Bocian, head of the Department of Promotion, Development and Social Policy, and Mr Stephen Sobech. The bill under consideration was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print no. 21 and the committee's report In print No 21 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! Professor! I have the honour on behalf of the Legislative Commission and as a representative of the applicants to present to the High House a draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of 2016 in the Year of Henryk Sienkiewicz. High Izbo, before I present the project myself, I would like to draw attention to some details in the biography of our great national writer. He was born on 5 May in the village of Wola Okrrzejska, in the estate of a grandmother from her mother, near Łukow; hence the presence of representatives of the local government and the Member. His father Joseph was a descendant of the pluralized noble family of the Lithuanian Tatars and owned the land. Stefania's mother came from an old and wealthy family of Podlasie Cieciszowski, a collegiated me. with the Łuszewski and the Lelewels. She wrote poems and announced two stories in the Illustrated Weekend. Henryk Sienkiewicz had five siblings, so it was a multi-children's family. He spent his childhood in the village Grabowiece Górne near Garwolin and in Sężyczyn near Minsk Mazowiecki, in the property of Aleksandra Dmochowska. Then he started studying in Warsaw. In October 1866, he completed an extraterrestrial high school exam in the fourth grade and joined the Main School after the entrance exam. He graduated from the Imperial University of Warsaw In 1871 the Main School was transformed. Since 1872 he began publishing small forms first in the two-week period "Wieniec'. It is worth noting that on 19 February 1876 he went through London and Liverpool to New York and from here to San Francisco. He was in close relations with Helena Modrzejewska. He wrote reviews from her first performances on American theatre boards. He stayed in the United States for over a year, then continued traveling. It is worth noting that on 18 August 1881 he married Maria Szetkiewiczówna. He had two children with her. The wife died prematurely from a disease. It's also worth paying attention to. I've checked it out. That Henryk Sienkiewicz has twenty-eight descendants. We invited Henryk Sienkiewicz's family to the ceremony today. Unfortunately, for reasons of health and organization, none of the family could attend today's celebration, but we know that the grandson lives and the great-grandson Henry Sienkiewicz lives. He has focused his energy on historical novels since 1883. The first one was originally called "Wolf's Nest," but it went to the history of literature under the well-known title "Fire and Sword." Its printing began in episodes in "Słowo" and at the same time in "Time" in May 1883. Fire and sword had a success that no one has seen in our day. Stanisław Tarnowski wrote, a prominent literary expert and rector of the Jagiellonian University; he gained readers in the spheres of both educated and popular. At the beginning of March 1884 the last episode of Fire and Sword appeared, and then the printing of another historical novel, entitled "Potope," which lasted until September 1886. The last link to the Trilogy was Mr Wołodyjowski, published in these journals from June 1887 to May 1888. I pay attention to these dates, because please note at what age the author was then He was a relatively young writer, a young man. As the author of Trylogia, Sienkiewicz gained the greatest popularity among Polish writers at the time. And here it is worth paying attention to the vital features of his personality. One of many manifestations of this popularity was the gift of 15,000 rubles, which he received from an admirer of his writing talent, probably Maria from Hołowińskie Czosnowska. And he didn't take the money, although he wasn't in such a good position at the time. He established a scholarship, which they used, among others. Maria Konopnicka, Stanisław Przybyszewski, Stanisław Wyspiański, Gustaw Daniłowski, Stanisław Witkiewicz or Kazimierz Tetmajer. It is worth noting that Henryk Sienkiewicz was not only a writer, but also a person engaged patriotically and socially. When he himself reached a strong material position, he always shared what he had, supported poorer colleagues of literary and cultural people, outstanding creators of our national heritage. It should be emphasized that Henryk Sienkiewicz had trouble with censorship all the time, but having made sure that Warsaw's censorship would not prohibit the publication of a novel from the history of Polish-Crusaders' fights in the 15th century, he began working on the previously planned Krzyżakami, which he has printed since February 1897. As another novel originally appearing in episodes, later in a compact print until 1900. After the release of Trylogia and Krzyżaków, Sienkiewicz's fame reached its peak phase. In the country, his works continued to re-introduce, abroad. A number of translations. The fire and the sword were translated into 26 languages. Sienkiewicz gained special popularity in Germany, Russia at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries in both countries was one of the most popular authors And in the United States. The success that no Polish book has ever surpassed until now has become Quo vadis, translated into more than 40 languages. Around 1900, a million copies were spent in English translation. It should be noted that at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries. Henryk Sienkiewicz was a world excellence. Incognito often had to go on his many trips because he was very well recognized and considered to be a handsome man. The result of Sienkiewicz's success in the world was the literary Nobel Prize for his outstanding merits as an epic writer, and I quoted a passage from the justification of the Royal Academy. At the award of this award on 10 December 1905. In his speech, he said that this privilege is valuable to him primarily as a sign of recognition that Poland is alive and capable of creative work. High Izbo! Henryk Sienkiewicz died in 1916 in Switzerland. It is worth noting that during World War I and just before its outbreak he showed a patriotic attitude, among others. The author of the manifestos addressed to the crowned heads took the floor in public matters. During the First War he was personally involved in the work of the relief committee for the victims of the war, Polish soldiers. It is important to emphasize this unique character as a patriot, a socialist and a prominent writer. It is also worth noting what Professor Markiewicz wrote about him, author of Henryk Sienkiewicz's biography in the Polish Biographical Dictionary, a comprehensive biography, which is a synthesis of our knowledge about Henryk Sienkiewicz or the state of knowledge at the moment when this volume of PSB was published. Professor Markiewicz said this: "In the history of Polish culture, however, he is the most outstanding historical novelist and undisputed prose master, the author of works most widely read and still strongly affecting social awareness, and finally Polish writer in the world of the most famous. High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to another detail, namely the participation of the Senate in the ceremony of bringing Henryk Sienkiewicz's body to Poland in 1924. And it was like this. In 1924 Sienkiewicz's ashes were decided to be brought to the country on the initiative of the President of the Warsaw Literary Casa Stanisław Libicki. At the head of the General Committee appointed for this purpose was the then Marshal of the Senate Wojciech Trąmpczyński. On October 25, the coffin left Switzerland. In many places where they passed through, celebrations were held in his honor. High Izbo! We have more than 70 schools in Poland. Henryk Sienkiewicz, in fact in every village there are streets named after him, there are dozens of monuments of Henryk Sienkiewicz in the territory of the present Republic. It is an outstanding figure that has absolutely entered into the history of our national culture. It is also a figure which is a precursor of this gigantic anniversary, which we will celebrate in 2018, the century of regaining independence by Poland, because Henryk Sienkiewicz, although he did not participate directly in events from the end of the First World War, because he was already dead... His posture, his literature, his relationships, he knew practically all outstanding Poles who contributed to the revival of the independent Republic, including Chief Piłsudski All of this together indicates that we are dealing with an outstanding figure that should be honoured as much as possible and whose year should be established. Finally, I would like to read the text of the resolution on the establishment of 2016 by Henryk Sienkiewicz. On 15 November 1916 Henryk Sienkiewicz died, whose works are an essential part of the cultural heritage of the nation. In his time of enslavement, he wrote for the comfort of his heart, and his books went astray. Further episodes of Sienkiewicz's novels published in magazines gathered representatives of all states on a common reading. The influence of Sienkiewicz's language on contemporary Polish is difficult to appreciate, and his books have entered the basic canon of Polish literature ever since publication. Through his works, publishing and social activities Henryk Sienkiewicz aroused national consciousness, taught pride in Polishness, love of homeland and ability to sacrifice. He was and is an ambassador of Polishness, among others. due to the universal value of the novel Quo Vadis, which today, at the moment of the collision of civilization, is gaining additional contemporary significance. The Senate of the Republic of Poland establishes 2016 as the Year of Henryk Sienkiewicz, to pay tribute to this Great Pole on the 100th anniversary of his death and to contribute to the popularization of his works and ideas contained in his books, above all, patriotism and attachment to traditional values. The Senate of the Republic of Poland invites the authorities of the state and civil society institutions to take into account the need to popularize Henryk Sienkiewicz's work in 2016 in their activities. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I would like to ask the High House to support this motion for a resolution and to say that I hope that in the Senate we will also have a commemorative exhibition at the right time, and a concert which will be devoted to Henryk Sienkiewicz's memory. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee, who is also an authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I see, Senator Fedorovich. You're welcome. Mr. Senator, if you'll just come here...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u4	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I am proud and very happy to welcome the draft resolution because it is a matter of course. However, since the rapporteur was gracious not to mention the date of birth of Henryk Sienkiewicz, only by mistake he said about May 15th, I would like to see that Henryk Sienkiewicz was born on May 15th, 1846. So that's all I want to complete, and thank you for the draft resolution. Of course, I will vote in favour, like any citizen.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u5	Thank you for your attention. In fact, he was born... Please note that he lived around 70 years, which means he turned 70 years old and celebrated his 70th anniversary... I wasn't talking about the details anymore. Of course, I'm sorry for the understatements.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u6	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u7	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! [[Talking in the O.R.]] The death of Henryk Sienkiewicz, which falls on 15 November 2016, is a very important condition for the adoption of the year of Sienkiewicz... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me. I ask you to silence the conversations, and preferably to stop them, okay?]] [[Voice from the room: Okay.]] [[Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.]] None of us has any doubt that the novel works of this great Polish history belong to an important part of the cultural heritage of our nation; and I will add: also to the heritage of the Catholic Church in Poland. And this is the issue that I would like to make a few words, a few comments. In particular, I am thinking about the extraordinary sense of the Polish creator as to the meaning of Jasna Góra and the Jasna Góra image of the Queen of Poland for the survival of our country in difficult times of war, partitions or, I will say in general, the loss of independence. Of course, I think mainly of Henryk Sienkiewicz's Trylogy, and especially of her part, which is called "Potope." It is in this novel that we find the words that Sienkiewicz put in the mouth of the Prior of Kordecki, the commander of the Jasna Góra fortress during the Swedish siege: 'Weirdly Satan is fierce to this place and makes every effort to hinder the service here and to allow the faithful as little as possible to participate in it, because nothing to such desperation of the infernal court brings as a sight of worship to the One who has the head of the serpent aging. Here I will remind you that the 40-day siege of Jasna Góra by the Swedes, which lasted from 18 November to 25 December 1655, described in Potopie, was a heroic struggle of 160 defenders with a few thousand Protestant invaders; a struggle, add, victorious. And what Henryk Sienkiewicz emphasized in the Potopie, concerns the main reason for the Swedish invasion, and thus the weight of this winning defense of Jasna Góra, which after years was considered miraculous. It is the conviction of both Sinkiewicz and historians that the defeat of Poland would then lead to the capture by Swedes of Eastern and Prince Prussia, the removal of Poland from the Baltic Sea, and consequently of Poland. The establishment of a Protestant empire in the Baltic Sea basin. And it was on the road to the establishment of this Protestant empire that Catholic Poland with the Jasna Góra monastery led. Henryk Sienkiewicz graphically described the fact that the resistance against the Swedes, which began on Jasna Góra, spread like a fire until it drove the invaders out of their homeland. Therefore, the creator in his artistic vision showed the heroic defender of the Jasna Góra fortress, Father Augustine Kordecki, as a man of Providence, even a man sent by God. It was Sienkiewicz who first described this Jasna Góra victory as a miracle. The wonder of this victory, its supernatural character, was confirmed by another very important fact, which was also described in the Potopie, an event taking place on 1 April 1656 in the Lviv Cathedral, namely the election of Our Lady of Jasna Góra by King John Kazimierz to the Queen of Poland. This solemn coronation of Our Lady to the Queen of Poland was, also for Sienkiewicz, a logical consequence of this miraculous victory. Once again, I would like to return to the other words of Henryk Sienkiewicz, whom he put in the mouth of Father Augustine Kordecki. I quote: It is strange that Satan is fierce at this place to attack and destroy them. In fact, I will remind you that the list of robberies, robberies and cases of destruction of Jasna Góra is already opening the first robbery of 1430. At that time the image was severely devastated, the monks were beaten, everything that was within the reach of the attackers was destroyed in the monastery. Later acts of aggression affected both the miraculous image and the monastery and the paulins. If we look at the events of the years and epochs of the Swedish siege, the battles of the Confederates of the Barracks, Napoleonic riots, the torments of the monks, devastations and disasters during the occupation of Austria, Prussian and Moscow, which ended in the demolition of Jasna Gora fortifications at the command of the Tsar Nicholas II, we will see what Sienkiewicz showed in the Potop: some astonishing bitterness and hatred towards God, directed for centuries against Our Lady of Jasna Gora. Sienkiewicz knew the report of the Russian governor, Konstanty Miller, from 1903, in which the governor reported it to St. Petersburg: "The most sure means of ending with a dangerous monastery for many reasons would be "Częstochowa" Delete it. But such a measure is completely useless. It would raise against Russia the furious hatred of the whole Catholic world, and above all the simple Polish people who worship the temple. It is necessary to spare the religious feelings of this people. I agree that it is only necessary to regret that the Częstochowa monastery was not erased in 1864, at the same time as many other monasteries. It is true that when Jasna Góra lost her defensive character as a fortress, her moral mission as a spiritual capital of Poland did not cease. This was especially the case in the years of the loss of independence, as well as in the past years imposed on the nation by the force of the communist system. Therefore, once again I would like to return to the prophetic words of Henryk Sienkiewicz, to the extraordinary description of Jasna Góra and the wonders of the painting of Our Lady of Jasna Góra, which is just shown in Once again I will remind you of the timeless words of the Potop, which Henry Sienkiewicz put in the mouth of his hero, the Prior Augustine of Kordecki: "She scolds us and despises us the enemy, asking us what was left of our former virtues. And I will answer: they all perished, but there is still something left, for there is faith and honor for the Blessed Virgin, on whom this foundation the rest may be rebuilt. I conclude: Henryk Sienkiewicz was right when he wrote: "There is a place in the nation that is not to be touched with impunity, because then the nation will swoop out of pain and break down into a terrible fight. And this place is called Jasna Góra. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u8	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Anthony Szymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Invited guests! One senator told me a moment ago: why such a debate about the obvious? Because Henry Sienkiewicz's person is probably connected by the Senate I am convinced of this and I have been connecting Poles for dozens of years. He is an outstanding person. It is a very significant person, on her attitude we have learned and we will learn, it is an example for us, her books we have read and remember until today. I would therefore like to refer only to the last paragraph of the resolution presented by Senator Jackowski. And at the same time, thank you for this excellent resolution of the Senate Committee on Culture and Media. Namely in the last sentence we ask the state authorities and local authorities to accept this anniversary In a few moments, we will establish 2016 as the Year of Henryk Sienkiewicz For theirs and to build a variety of activities around it. I think that we, too, as Senate, should set an example in this regard. I talked to the head of the Senate Office about this. I asked what are the possibilities of organizing the exhibition in the first months of next year, which would be devoted to Henryk Sienkiewicz... [[There's gonna be an exhibition.]] As I hear it, there's gonna be an exhibition. And we'll be able to invite the family in advance, we'll be able to hold a press conference around this event, show it to them in a variety of ways. But there are also other possibilities that stand before us, for example in the form of a film festival made on the basis of Henryk Sienkiewicz's books. These are concerts. I think a concert at the National Philharmonic with senators, a concert that would show this person... The point is, this way, our actions won't stay in these four walls. I am talking about this because sometimes resolutions are taken, which are of course published in the Official Journal of the Laws, but it is not a document commonly read in Poland. That is why it is so important to build it up with various events. It's about getting into the social life cycle, so it's important not only for the High House, but for society as a whole. I believe that this will happen, I believe that the Year of Henryk Sienkiewicz will not be a dead year in the sense that it will be built up with many events and thus also an attitude What Master Henryk Sienkiewicz taught us will penetrate our social life. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u10	Thank you very much. I ask you to take the floor of Senator Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u11	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I, of course, would like to thank Senator Jackowski for his initiative. Of course, we know the work of Henryk Sienkiewicz, so this will not be the subject of my, I hope, reflection. Namely, I would like to share with you two comments about the year we planned by Henryk Sienkiewicz. First line. I hope that in a hundred years' time, when another senator will stand on this speaker, he will also be able to begin a similar speech with words: we know Henryk Sienkiewicz's work, we do not have to debate about it. I would very much appeal to Henryk Sienkiewicz, on the occasion of 2016 as the Year, that the Senate strengthens its activities and supports them with its authority, in order that Henryk Sienkiewicz's work should not perish in our educational awareness. [[Applause]] In the Polish school there are certainly many good ones, there are wonderful teachers, among others. teachers of Polish language. But they will not be able to find in themselves so much strength and determination, if both the basics of the programme and the realization opportunities for the transfer of knowledge about Polish literature to young people are de facto limited by state tools. The fact that Henryk Sienkiewicz is and can be seen today only by the prism of the first, eighth, forty or six hundred and fifty-eightth episode of the television tapeworm, is something abnormal, because the work of Henryk Sienkiewicz, as we well know, is not in the TV series canon. And so young people are taught by Henryk Sienkiewicz on a random basis, through fragments of his work, also as basic works as We unleash, thus deprive the next generations of the possibility of digesting the entire great Polish heritage, which is found in his works. Therefore, in order for this year 2016, the Year of Henryk Sienkiewicz to make sense from the point of view of the tasks of the Senate, please, I urge us to direct our individual authority and authority of the Chamber this year also towards, speaking today's language, advertising the works of Henryk Sienkiewicz. Because he's all of us. And the second point, very important, perhaps even more important. The Senate of the Republic of Poland is the Chamber which sets standards regarding the behaviour of Polish intelligence, Polish intellectuals, i.e. the Polish elite. I very much want to emphasize that the biography, the life story of Henryk Sienkiewicz is the life story of a great creator who gave his talent, his knowledge and his diligence to his homeland. So this is an example of a Polish creator who entered himself in an almost ideal way, if man can do it at all, in the definition of Polish patriotism. I would very much like to stress that this dimension of Polish patriotism is very, very necessary to define today. If we are to look for him somewhere, also as the Senate who raises him, let us be clear: Henryk Sienkiewicz is the educator of the Polish elite Anna Domini 2016. Any other intelligenceist, Polish intellectual, who would like to enter into this definition of Polish intellectual, but at the same time negates Henryk Sienkiewicz's patriotism, does not want to enter into the patriotism of Henryk Sienkiewicz, at least let him know that he is not a de facto patriot. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u12	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Gogach.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u13	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Representatives of local government authorities, Łukowice self-government, Łukow district! Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski! Ladies and gentlemen, all gathered at this meeting! I would like to express my great joy at this initiative, because next year will be devoted to Henryk Sienkiewicz. My joy is all the more that it is in my constituency that lies Wola Okrrzejska, and this is the village where, as we all know, Henryk Sienkiewicz was born. Wola Okrrzejska is Lubelszczyzna, it is the district of Łukowski, it is the municipality of Krzywda. There is, ladies and gentlemen, the Museum of Henryk Sienkiewicz The director of this museum is present here. It has a very rich business. On 13 December, on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the award to Henryk Sienkiewicz of the Nobel Prize, a large ceremony was prepared. By the way, Henryk Sienkiewicz received the Nobel Prize when Poland had no independence for 110 years, and today we have the 100th anniversary of the Nobel Prize. The museum, of course, remembers that. I want to say that there are a lot of celebrations that are devoted to Henry Sienkiewicz. I would like to mention here the existing Society to them. Henryk Sienkiewicz in Lublin, headed by Professor Lech Ludorowski, is one of the most outstanding experts of Henryk Sienkiewicz. He is now the leading representative of sienkiewiczology, particularly worthy of development in recent decades of this extensive and multi-directional discipline, as a researcher and as the organizer of various projects. Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech, I would like to focus on the civic service of Henryk Sienkiewicz. The artistic service has already been mentioned, many of us, because of the reading of his books, which we have certainly learned, due to the knowledge of rich literature, this artistic activity has already come to know. And as far as civic service is concerned, I would like to draw attention above all to the very important fact that it was the unveiling of 24 December 1898... It was the 100th anniversary of the birth of the national hangman Adam Mickiewicz. And precisely on that day, December 24th, on Christmas Eve, at the time when Poland was under partitions, when the Tsar Nicholas II ruled, when the Tsar's governor was in office in Poland, Henryk Sienkiewicz, who interrupted the preparation of the novel "Krzyzacy" at that time, managed to lead to a huge patriotic manifestation. There was no Poland, and the monument of Adam Mickiewicz, this monument, this neoclassical monument, which stands in Krakow Przedmieście, was unveiled; it was only destroyed by the Nazi occupier. It was thanks to the incredible determination of the writer Henryk Sienkiewicz that he found a place there. When Henryk Sienkiewicz was offered to organize ceremonies dedicated to his work at the end of the 19th century, and there were several occasions to draw attention to his accomplishments, Henryk Sienkiewicz said that he did not, because he must lead to the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Adam Mickiewicz's birth. There was a huge manifestation and a fund-raiser to build this monument. More than 100,000 people took part in the fundraiser. 60% This sum, which was collected at the time, was the sum of the smallest victims of a kopeck, half a kopeck, and more than 30% were larger. The authorities of that time did not allow Henryk Sienkiewicz to speak, but in an unspeakable speech we find information that Henryk Sienkiewicz, who had already had such a great experience, called the fact that the monument was unveiled, miraculously, miraculously in the full sense of the word. It was a miracle that we managed to make it happen. And now that we are talking about the fact that Poland was so well prepared in 1918 to take over the functions of the state, the functions of the state institution, to be the subject of international law, we cannot, of course, forget about it. In order not to extend, I would like to draw attention to the fact that I have already mentioned here the award of the Nobel Prize to Henryk Sienkiewicz. How important it was to note that it is 1905, we still do not have statehood, and Henryk Sienkiewicz receives the Nobel Prize. After this award he succeeds personally, especially for this reason, so as not to be forced to accept the Nobel Prize from the Tsar's governor in St. Petersburg. And he gets that reward. Then he makes a speech, so-called. Stokholm's speech, which is very short. If you visualize it, it'll fit on one side. I will allow you to quote three sentences just from this speech: However, this honor, precious to all, how much more valuable it must be for the son of Poland! It was preached dead, and here is one of the thousands of evidence that she was alive. It was preached incapable of thinking and working, and this is proof that it works! It was proclaimed conquered, and here is a new proof that it can win. To whom Galileo's words will not come to mind: Yet it turns! I think it would be good if I summarized my speech with these words. And once again I will express the great joy that 2016 will be the Year of Henryk Sienkiewicz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u14	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! It is a great day when the Senate of the Republic of Poland will adopt a resolution on the Year of Henryk Sienkiewicz. It is also a great day for the society of the Świętokrzyskie land, on which this land is still located today the mansion of Henryk Sienkiewicz, a mansion in Oblęgorek. This manor was purchased in 1900 for funds from the public collection, through which Polish society wanted to thank the great writer on the 25th anniversary of his artistic work for all his uplifting spirit, strengthening the heart of the nation's work. Henryk Sienkiewicz moved to Oblęgorek in 1902. It was a beautiful 19th century mansion. The Polish society paid nearly 52 thousand rubles for it, and for what was left of this great public collection, several dozen more items of livestock and agricultural machinery were purchased. Henryk Sienkiewicz was very fond of this place, and there he wrote many of the famous songs. Now Obligorek is part of the National Museum in Kielce, it is the Museum of Henryk Sienkiewicz since 1958. After the outbreak of World War I, Henryk Sienkiewicz left the manor house, but until 1944 his wife and son lived there. I am talking about all this because this museum in Oblęgorek is a great sign for the society of Świętokrzyskie land, which has also grown into the rich work of Henryk Sienkiewicz. It is on this work, I dare say, that such a great ethos were created, especially insurgents, among the society of the Holy Cross. I hope that the Senate resolution will contribute to the fact that our sanctimonious land will be particularly visible in connection with the celebrations of the Year of Henryk Sienkiewicz and that many Poles will also want to visit this place where the presence of this great Pole still exists. I also hope that we, as inhabitants of Świętokrzyskie land, as well as the National Museum, thank you for being here today the director of this museum in Kielce We will contribute to the fact that these celebrations will be of the right rank. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u16	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2016 by Henryk Sienkiewicz. Who among the senators is in favour of this project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I'm sorry, I have a problem... Why isn't my card working? [[Voice from the Chamber: Because the vote is over.]] Okay, okay. I'll give you the results of the vote. 79 votes in favour, 0 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2016 in the Year of Henryk Sienkiewicz. Three minutes of technical break. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 51 to 10 minutes 56]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 45th anniversary of the tragic events on the coast. I would remind you that the project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 41 and the committee's report In print No 41 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This resolution of the Legislative Commission was established yesterday, on 17 December, because it was mainly 17 December that these tragic events took place. The resolution was made in full consensus, and I hope that after reading this resolution... This resolution, in my opinion, does not require many reviews. I regret that there is no Minister of Culture in the Chamber, because this is important for our historical policy. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 17 December 2015 on the 45th anniversary of the tragic events on the coast. In December 1970, in protest against price increases introduced by the authorities of the Polish People's Republic, a wave of strikes and demonstrations swept over the coast. Once again, Poles The workers, shipbuilders, porters, coastal residents went out to claim the dignity of the man of work, and the authorities brought against the protesters tanks, authorised militia and the army to use weapons. According to official data, more than 40 people were murdered in the streets of Gdansk, Gdynia, Szczecin and Elbląg in December 1970 and more than 1160 were injured. A particularly bloody day was December 17, when at least 18 people were shot in Gdynia. Despite the fact that 45 years have passed since this tragedy, the perpetrators of fraternal shootings were not brought before the courts and, unfortunately, they managed to avoid responsibility. Therefore, the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of December 17 should be a day of homage to the murdered and the memory of the dead, and the victim of life and blood of the coast workers should find a worthy and lasting place in the history of fighting for an independent and just Poland. The Senate of the Republic of Poland honors and honors all those who have fought against the totalitarian regime for freedom, dignity and fundamental human rights, and who have sacrificed blood, suffering and life in this fight. We must not allow this to be a futile sacrifice. It is our duty to remember it and pass it on to the next generation. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u18	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. May I remind you that the applicants have authorized Senator Grażyna Sztark to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. He informs me that none of your senators have signed up. I'm closing the discussion. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We're moving on to the next point. We begin to consider item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 10th anniversary of the oath by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 42 and the report "Print No 42 S." I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Michał Sewerynski, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Under the authority of the Legislative Commission, I present the following. At its meeting on 17 December 2015, the Commission examined, at first reading, the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested the adoption by the Senate of a uniform draft resolution with the following content. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 10th anniversary of taking an oath by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. On 23 December 2015, 10 years after the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński took an oath before the National Assembly. Members and senators gathered at the solemn Assembly, paying tribute to the memory of President Lech Kaczyński, express their conviction that the President, acting in Free Trade Unions, Solidarity, performing high national, social and local functions, effectively seeking as President of the Republic of Poland to build the subjective position of Poland and our region in international politics, giving justice to people fighting for the freedom of our Homeland, actively participating in the resolution of numerous social conflicts, reminding the ideas of Solidarity, which he has always been faithful, has served Poland well. The resolution shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u20	At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Michael Sewerinski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The good tradition of our House was that resolutions which honoured certain persons or events from the past were taken in consensus. Then they have real value. They mean that even if there are differences of opinion, there are certain issues that connect all senators regardless of political views. Unfortunately, this resolution is not the case. First of all, an opportunity, an opportunity which has become the reason for this resolution, namely to call the date of the oath, to take the oath... There was no such tradition, we did not make such resolutions, this is not the date which should be the reason for the Senate to adopt resolutions, I think. Secondly, and this is a matter, you can say, even more difficult for me The text of this resolution contains statements that I simply do not share. The words about effective... I'm not exactly quoting. . about the effective construction of the subjectivity of Poland on the international stage. There are also other comments to this presidency, but I would like to say that I will not develop this topic because Lech Kaczyński was the president elected in democratic elections and was personally human. And I've had the opportunity to talk to him in no time. He's a nice guy. As far as the assessment of his presidency is concerned, there are serious differences in this area, including in society, but it would be inappropriate to develop today the subject of the evaluation of this presidency. President Lech Kaczyński died tragically doing his duty in the service, and I would therefore like to uphold this Roman rule: de mortuis nihil nisi bene. The introduction of such a resolution puts, as if in a rather uncomfortable situation of critics, because if you ask me what I did not like about this presidency, then I will say that I will not answer this question, because, as I said, de mortuis nihil nisi bene. I consider the resolution to be unnecessary, a manifestation of, well, a certain... historical policy, so to speak, which environment of law and justice, of course, has the right to lead. It has the right to adopt such resolutions, but it should not impose them on others. And that, unfortunately, has that character. And therefore let this resolution, if it is taken and probably taken, be a resolution of Law and Justice. I will not vote for or against, I will simply not take part in this vote. Thank you. [[Very well, don't vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u22	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u23	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I want to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. We are surprised by the preparation and process of the resolution submitted. The oath of the President, a fact which is necessary to assume the function and exercise this function, is elevated to the rank of an exceptional event, refers only to one President, and yet each President of the reborn Republic took an oath. I will mention here, for example, Lech Wałęsa, the first democratically elected President to take such an oath twenty-five years ago. The twenty-fiveth anniversary of this event will be on January 22nd of the coming year... [[Voices from the hall: December.]] [[Voice from the room: In December he submitted...]] December, this year. Second thing. The adoption or confirmation of the adoption of a resolution at the solemn assembly of the Sejm and the Senate, which according to the resolution submitted is not the National Assembly, is surprising. Such a meeting in the form of a meeting of Members and Senators could be organised in order to honor all presidents of the Republic of Poland or individually, because they all deserve respect. In a similar situation... in a similar form we express respect for the heads of states hosted in Poland. If the drafters of the resolution do not see or do not want to understand the difference between honoring one of the presidents and honoring the others, then I have the impression that the intentions of the resolution we do not know are at the heart of the resolution adopted by the committee. I do not want to judge the form of governance of individual presidents here, it is not for such an assessment of the place. Besides, Senator Borowski spoke in a similar spirit. That's not my intention. I would like to point out that we are actually doing our presidents and our country harm. I inform your senators that, as I said, this is a speech on behalf of the club. At the same time, I inform you that the Platform senators will not vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Is that what they all expressed their will to do? All of them?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u24	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! Dear ladies and gentlemen, First, I would like to address Senator Marek Borowski's words. I'm sure the senator's right. And not just because he's possibly a prophet in this matter. In this resolution we will vote differently, but this prophecy is not especially glorious, because, as I understand it, the intention of this resolution is just to invite us, as Senators of the Republic of Poland, to agree on at least one issue in this case. I'm not saying that all the issues about the conduct of the presidency of Lech Kaczyński's sacred memory, about his possible merits, his mistakes. Lech Kaczyński was a human being, and therefore he was entitled to mistakes, as we know. Not at this level, I think, there should be a discussion, Mr. Senator, but at the level of some fundamental agreement. Namely, this agreement is that we work out standards in the Senate. And, as I understand it, the intention of this resolution is to show that, for the time being, of all the presidents of the Third Republic, it was Lech Kaczyński who came closer to this standard of presidency, which is connected with the concept of independent Poland... [[applause]] ...but he also came closer to this formula of the presidency, which is connected with Polish heritage, with Polish tradition, with Polish patriotism, among which are features, very numerous, connected with the character of Poles, we will also find this beautiful word, which is the word "service." Not private, not personal interests, not defense of anti-democratic, anti-ethical order, such as. There was a peerel order, although not only this one, of course, in the tradition of humanity, but in the case of the Polish tradition it is a point of reference. And so it seemed that, against the background of all the other presidents, we could clearly gain such consensus, such agreement that the senators who are sitting in this House today simply agree that being President of the Republic requires a certain minimum standards, to preserve them. And I'm very sorry, but with all due respect to the human being, And this is where I refer to the Senator's speech. No other president... I am not talking about the whole biography of the person I want to talk about, but President Lech Wałęsa, although during his presidency he had the most chance to become a role model for us, he has not become such a role model and cannot become one. He made his own choice, and therefore an attempt to compare the two presidents of President Lech Wałęsa and President Lech Kaczynski... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...would also provide the public with an answer to the question of what standard the Senate of the Republic proposes in 2016. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please be quiet. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a pleasure that the Senate is adopting this resolution. I trust that this resolution will be taken on the tenth anniversary of the oath taken by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. I had the honour to cooperate with the holy memory of the President, Professor Lech Kaczyński at the time when he was the president of the capital city of Warsaw. For a period of time I was President of the Council of St. Warsaw and had the opportunity to know him as a man, citizen, politician, professor of law, outstanding individuality. And I am very pleased that we are making this resolution. I don't think anyone in this House will question the fact that his biography, his life story, his history and his tragic death in the Smoleńsk tragedy on 10 April 2010, together with representatives of all the political circles who were then in parliament, important social environments, combatants, commanders of types of Armed Forces, chief of the General Staff and various other prominent Poles, people of culture... It can be said that on this plane on April 10 was, as in a pill, the elite of Poland, who suffered a tragic death. My previous speaker, Professor Żaryn, spoke about the assessment of the presidency of the sacred memory of Professor Lech Kaczyński, indicating diametric differences in approach, in biography. There was a stir in the courtroom when Professor Żaryn spoke about it. I think you don't need to be a prominent history expert to simply trace the biography of the various presidents we had in the Third Republic and to learn from it the right lessons. We have just adopted a resolution on tragic events from 45 years ago and I would like to say that the present President of the Lightest Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda said significant words that it was a shame and disgrace for the Third Republic of Poland, that, first of all, he did not settle communist criminals, and secondly, he hid them in Military Powązki with military honors, due after all, to people distinguished, deserved, who deserved it fully. And this is a disgrace of the Third Republic of Poland, whose synonym was unfortunately, as mentioned here by Professor Żaryn, Lech Wałęsa, by his own choice, which in 1990 was criticized in the Gazeta Wyborcza and later became a hero. As the one who assassinated His Enlightened Union at that time it was probably still ROAD, this defence movement did the assassination, was criticized at the meeting of intellectuals. Later, Adam Michnik wrote that at the time of Wałęsa it was when someone knocked on the door at 6:00 a.m. it was not known whether it was a milkman or someone else. Now we have exactly the same series on the side of the Constitutional Tribunal, which simply shows that we are dealing with a fight between whether Poland will be a sovereign country or Poland will be a country that will be governed by democratic will or Poland will be a country that was built on the foundation of the Round Table... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...in terms of protecting the interests of those who played an important role in the previous regime or in the previous system. Hence the power of the judicial system, for 17 years the case of criminals of the events of 17 December 1970 has been pending in the courts. And to those who roar, I would like to say one thing: as a 12-year-old boy, I witnessed December events in Szczecin. Tanks passed by my school, people were shot. I saw it. I saw it. [[You're not the only one who's been through this...]] Yes. And I know what a tragedy it was for society, for Poland, for our father. High Izbo, which is why I believe that thanks to Professor Lech Kaczyński, President of the Republic of Poland, his biography and his death, who has clinged to history our tragic history of the last few hundred years Because he died in a place that is also full of symbolism, he did not die in a completely different place. All this together indicates that the decade of swearing in to the office of President is most worthy of commemoration in the form of a resolution. I would like to thank the authors and applicants for this draft resolution very warmly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u28	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My speech is a continuation of the speech by Senator Rotnicka, and the whole is the sum of our discussion at the club on this resolution, a solid discussion at the club. Lech Kaczyński's character I will refer to Senator Żarin's thoughts and Senator Jackowski's. In the Civic Platform environment, but I think more broadly, it arouses sympathy. This sympathy just after death, tragic death, translated into immediate decisions of honoring and President Kaczyński, and other victims of the catastrophe. There can be no doubt about that. Parliament also honored their memory with appropriate tables, the parliament, the majority of which was the Civic Platform's environment at the time. Personally, I have reasons for even greater satisfaction, because Lech Kaczyński's character is part of this generation, which has made an account of improbability. He was the one who abandoned the comfortable position of the lawyer and made his contribution to the opposition branch, cooperating with the NRA and then directly building the structures of the reborn union movement. Neither I nor others, I think, should have any doubt about that either. However, we do not judge at this meeting the merits and errors of your holy memory of the President. We also don't judge other presidents, we don't run specific competitions for which one was bigger. We're assessing an event, the tenth anniversary of the oath. And if we're talking about vows... In my opinion, At least how I learned from my history course The biggest Polish oath was the oath of Tadeusz Kościuszko on the Krakow market. [[Applause]] Or maybe even It might interest Senator Ryszka. Kazimierz vows in Lviv. Or maybe Józef Piłsudski's refusal to take an oath during World War I. [[Applause]] These were events that brought a breakthrough for the Polish state, and sometimes for the whole of Europe. If we were still to keep such a record of events, no one would deny, regardless of different opinions, that it was during the time of the presidency of Lech Wałęsa, the first president elected in the times of the Third Republic, in free elections, that Russian troops were taken out of Poland. Forever, I think. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Agentship remains.]] [[What about leaving the agent?]] Ladies and gentlemen, may the senators present... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please!]] ...I think... We also met, talked, argued with the President, and then acting as Chairman of the National Commission for Solidarity. We argued, for example, whether the movement of "Solidarity" was continuous or interrupted by martial law. I defended the thesis that we were, with our power, with our will, with continuous motion. President Kaczyński disagreed. Maybe that's why he took part in the Round Table. It's a choice. But on the other hand, the president was the first one to defend the opposition, give it... and issue documents on aid to the persecuted. But all of this doesn't justify me saying so, playing the head of President Lech Kaczyński, who cannot comment on the matter discussed here. And the quality of his and his wife was unique modesty, perhaps different from mine, than the others present here. The modesty of serving. The resolution discussed here apart from the populist dimension I don't hesitate to use such a term, but it has one more flaw. I would like to point this out to the marshal: can we adopt a resolution on behalf of our fellow Members? Can we subscribe to the word "Gathering," since the name "Gathering" in return is constitutionally reserved for the assembly of Members and Senators, which governs the laws of the National Assembly? [[This isn't the National Assembly, this is the assembly.]] This is a meeting. National Assembly... Let us not hide, here we are talking about entering into another formula, intended in the Constitution for a very important act, for a serious meeting of Members and Senators, covered by the Rules of Procedure. Finally, Mr. Marshal, is the assembly entitled to adopt resolutions even if we accept such a far-reaching interpretation? Does the assembly of any person, even honourable Members and Senators, have the capacity to adopt resolutions? In my opinion, this is an abuse of law, almost an abuse of the Constitution. And for the reasons set out here, Mr. Marshal... [[The bombing.]] ...I'm directing my doubts to you. Because I have such a duty, I have vowed. Once again, I'm maintaining the club's position... [[Another assassination attempt on the president.]] ...that with regard to the event discussed here and the resolution thus formulated, our club cannot cast its vote in favour, against or against it. And last but not least. It happens that it is twenty-fifth anniversary since President Kaczorowski arrived in Poland. The character of President Kaczorowski himself may be worthy of a resolution, but I do not ask for it. However, the fact is that here is Poland, Poland, which similarly to Lech Kaczyński Only that for dozens of years, it carried out an account of the improbability of independence, which was deleted by the pact in Yalta, deleted by many, deleted by the Polish People's Republic, continued. They continued not only as officials, they continued as symbols of Poland, which at that time contained between the Parisian Culture and the Polish congress in various countries and the foundation of prizes for the prominent and persecuted; they continued to put their insignia into independent Poland after 25 years in the hands of President Lech Wałęsa, elected free elections. For these insignia, among others. He took the oath of President Lech Kaczyński. And it's worth remembering these events, not just resorting to, let's say, not to the most important anniversaries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, let me ask you a question. I think it should be addressed to the rapporteur, but I will answer. At the committee meeting, such a question came up. This is, I will remind you, the third resolution that the Senate is making today. We're talking about a Senate resolution, not a National Assembly. According to the legislators, it is in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure. Please take the floor of Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to express my joy in preparing this draft resolution, because I believe it is an important anniversary, which allows us to recall the great figure of President Lech Kaczyński. What distinguished him from all the presidents in the period after 1989 was the fact that for the first time we had a president, who was a very educated man, a professor of law, which is very important for a person who is the highest guardian of the law in the Republic of Poland. Because it is entrusted with this function by the constitution. He was a man of great modesty and, above all, courage. It can be said that the good of the nation, the happiness of the nation, was for him the main guideline of conduct. Pericles once spoke of human rights to be happy and to be happy and to be happy not only in the individual dimension but also in the dimension of the nation. I will remind you of these words of Pericles: man has a right to be happy, but to be happy, he must be free, and to be free, he must be brave. It was this courage that marked the sacred memory of President Lech Kaczyński, the courage that manifested itself in various kinds of activities, for example in this event, when he flew to Georgia and thanks to this very brave visit stopped the aggression on this small country from the side of the next power. He had the courage to express his opinion, he had the courage to veto the laws he considered contrary to the constitution. All of this is an unusual act that indicates that he was a person who was guided by his own conscience, by his own beliefs. Also in the whole history of his life, in the service of free trade unions, in the service of the nation, he was a person who did not have to change his views, did not have to get involved with other parties or with other people. He was faithful to his own beliefs from the beginning to the end. He died a tragic death on a flight to Katyn in his service. It may be said that he fell on the front of that service to the nation. We are convinced that such a resolution should be taken. As a Cracowian, I have the satisfaction of saying that it is a kind of complement to honoring the character who, as the President of the Republic of Poland, ended up on Wawel. One could say that this is a certain additional, tightening buckle, which is the buckle of the evaluation of this figure, the President of the Republic after 1989, of which we were proud and which, as I say, was faithful to his beliefs from the beginning to the very end. I am in favour of this resolution, and I do not hide that I will vote for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u32	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, it's a beautiful project, a beautiful resolution, and the circumstances are of the utmost value and worth talking about. I thank the applicants very much for preparing this resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible not to address the statements of the representatives of the SLD and the Civic Platform. This is a very interesting issue... Pay attention to the fact that people like... Mr. Borusewicz didn't speak today, but Mr. Rulewski, Mrs. Krzywonos, Mr. Frasyniuk... They question a vision of the Polish state. I've been in Solidarity since the beginning, and for me it hasn't been the defense of the workers since the beginning. That's not what this was about. Only an attempt to change our country's system. I'm still picking it up today. We must, ladies and gentlemen, admit that many people present on today's so-called front page newspapers were accidentally... Many people were sent there, but very many people believed in the independence of the Republic, believed in this beautiful movement of solidarity, which in the last few hundred years has been incredibly... Those people who believed it, who have sacrificed their health and even their lives, have not yet been compensated and have not yet experienced the fulfillment of their dreams. Senator Rulewski said they didn't judge you as a professor, Mr. President Kaczyński... But all your statements, ladies and gentlemen, were an assessment of his presidency, or more specifically, an assessment of Poland's vision. That's how I feel about it, because it's clear from what you're saying. Mr. Rulewski even made such statements that the State had fulfilled its role because it was honoured after this tragedy on April 10th... I was waiting for her to say that you... What's that slogan? That the country... [[...the exam's off.]] Passed the test, yes. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In a few decades, historians will be writing about what happened. You as Platform, Platform and PSL didn't pass the exam at all and before this tragedy. And in my opinion, an assassination attempt. And it's over. You didn't pass the test. After such a tragedy, ladies and gentlemen, if you were ministers out of love for your country, if you considered it a mission, you should all resign with the Prime Minister. Everyone, especially military chiefs, foreign affairs, Homeland Security. These people should resign immediately, because honor... Or maybe they're not good enough to do these jobs, because sometimes it's just that somebody's job is easier, and sometimes somebody just doesn't work out... And in terms of honor... You couldn't keep an eye on what Mr Jackowski called this beautifully, this Polish country in a pill. Because it wasn't just about the elite, it was the Polish state in the pill. It didn't mean anything to you. I'm outraged by what happened before and after April 10th. Ladies and gentlemen, these talks between Tusk and Putin, sooner or later, will come to light, and I am sure that all these issues will come to light in times or in times or in any other government. Because history... the situation in the world is changing, and I hope that there will finally be a situation when there is the possibility that NATO representatives, the United States, will enable us to learn the truth. It's obviously complicated, because it's about geopoliticalism, but I hope that there will still be a situation in my life that will explain this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, let me quote one fact. This is so personal... Imagine such a situation. When we're abroad Whether in any delegation or in private and we hear the Polish language, we notice a Pole, we approach and just talk to him humanly. And here, ladies and gentlemen, the Polish Prime Minister goes after such a powerful tragedy and does not approach the body of the President of the Republic, but plays with some diplomatic procedures and goes to Putin. Ladies and gentlemen, what do I need a diplomatic procedure for? I am the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland and it is my duty to reach the body of the President of the Republic as soon as possible. The prime minister who acts this way, and therefore does not think in terms of love for his country, is really worth nothing. Here in this room, ladies and gentlemen, there are two visions of Poland. The first one is a vision. How beautifully you presented the professor, for which I thank you very much. Poland of courage, Poland of strength, Poland for which life is given, and the second is the vision of Poland we do not know which, we simply do not know which. I agree with you, Mr. Senator of the Platform... [[Anything.]] ...that it's a vision of Poland that's just nothing, on a principle, to figure out something to do somewhere, to do something somewhere, to do something... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But don't yell, you won't yell at me. [[Quiet, please.]] ...in fact, just to get there, to take a $3 million debriefing, 'cause the guy just got me a job. That's how you function. And I am very sorry that, on this occasion, there are still any discussions on this beautiful resolution. We've shown our culture... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...and we have shown dignity in the resolution on December, 70, a resolution that is needed. And that's how you're supposed to act. After all, we know very well that people died there, as history shows, whose thinking and action has not been compensated. And where were the predecessors, the previous presidents? Where was he? What did President Komorowski do about it? What did Mr. Wałęsa do about it? [[And what did President Kaczyński do? And what did Prime Minister Kaczyński do?]] Sir, Mr. Kaczyński... How many were you guys? Eight years! Don't compare that. Let's see what he does... [[Everyone has their time.]] We'll see what President Duda does, then we'll judge him. And I will also remind you of one thing that is very important, and which was discussed here and which the Civic Platform or some of its representatives mocked. It's about Georgia, it's about the international situation, when Professor Lech Kaczyński was giving himself. Ladies and gentlemen, how could you mock the fact that he flew, that there was a blind sniper... how can you say that? And that's what the ministers and marshals used to say. I am convinced that some of you are just ashamed of it, ladies and gentlemen. So if you have a chance not to say anything, it's just better not to say anything. Don't tell me, not here, by criticizing President Lech Kaczyński, saying that you don't like any date... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You may try to make suggestions about other dates. If there wasn't something, it doesn't mean we're not supposed to start... Maybe this is such a very beautiful form of honoring great people, great rulers in our country, and it should be used. Just because someone hasn't come up with something doesn't mean that we don't have to do it, and we don't have to do it in a way that's important to ourselves and in a proper way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u34	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Gazwada.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The seriousness of this House, the seriousness of the person who has left who has lost her life in the service of Poland, should not, Dear Senators, cause a laughing salvage. And that's what I'm asking you to do. This debate today and the draft of a very important resolution are such a reach. I would say straight: it's a saying I'm checking. Because today, all of you senators You're appealing. I'm saying this with all due respect to Senator Rulewski. This is not the time and place to conduct a thorough analysis of the presidency. Of course, in my deep conviction and feeling the president of the holy memory of Professor Lech Kaczyński was unique, because he is an exceptional man, very modest, he is a great patriot, he is a man who, as the senator said, postponed his personal plans to serve Poland. And today it is a simple check we should refer to the whole of our House. I think that in terms of our assessment, Poles, there will be a great role in the future. To assess not only this presidency, but also the presidents of the other presidents. Let's not look for negatives today and possibly legal grounds not to. Let us look for such legal solutions to simply adopt this resolution today. This resolution does not close the right path to celebrate the President in exile, who returned to Poland, President Kaczorowski in the future. That's not an obstacle. Today, by reaching out a hand to take such an important resolution, let us celebrate the sacred memory of President Lech Kaczyński on the tenth anniversary of his vows and oaths, because it is not really about the date, but about the fact that he is the only President who left his life in the service of Poland in the Third Republic. I'm asking you to, and I'm appealing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u36	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First to Senator Dobrzyński, who noticed here a representative of the SLD... I kindly inform you that there is no one in the O.R. [[Talking in the O.R.]] That's one thing. Second. Well, Mr. Senators, I, when I started this debate, said that I didn't want to judge this presidency in detail for the reasons I was talking about, and that I just think that this resolution on this very occasion is something else, for example, the anniversary of death. It should not be undertaken. In the meantime, gentlemen, you have opened this debate. You have opened this debate, stressing the merits of the President And not only the president, but also earlier Lech Kaczyński, as well as referring to others and pointing out the disadvantages and shortcomings of other presidents. It was a serious mistake. It was a serious mistake, because it directs us to a completely different debate. For a debate about which president was better, who was worse, who did better, which was worse. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we've just entered this path. What I'm trying to say is that I'm consistently not going to let this path lead me. If one of the senators wants to know what my reservations about the presidency of Lech Kaczyński are, I'd be very happy to tell you in private, not in public. And I think this resolution just puts us in such an uncomfortable situation. Finally, there's one more thing. From these statements it was apparent, also from earlier, that the state wanted to build the cult of Lech Kaczyński in the country. A cult. Well, I can't agree with that anymore. This resolution is some beginning, but I have no doubt that it will be because I know the statements of the President of Jarosław Kaczyński, other leading politicians who speak in this spirit. For such a construction of chapels simply cannot be consented. Besides, I think it's harming the sacred memory of Lech Kaczyński. And finally, I'm gonna say something that I'm sure my law and justice colleagues won't like, but it's okay. The fact is that we often raise the advantages of different great people, we refer to them as authorities, but we do something completely different. Lech Kaczyński's Holy Memory as President Today, his words are quoted quite often and he spoke about the Constitutional Tribunal and said: we do not always agree with the Court's judgments, but his judgments must be respected. And what are you doing today? Today, the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal are ignored by you, ridiculed, and destroyed by the Court itself. So what kind of authority is that? How do you treat your own president, whom you speak so beautifully? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u38	Thank you very much. You're Senator Rulewski, aren't you? [[Yes...]] [[Voice from the room: Dobrzyński yet...]] [[Voice from the room: He resigned.]] He quit? Are you... [[I quit. I thought I'd have to answer...]] Is the senator up for discussion? [[Voice from the O.R.: I'm relinquishing...]] [[No satisfaction, but I accept...]] [[But you're not going to vote.]] [[Voice from the room: It doesn't change anything.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly now, and I think it will bring us together in some thinking. I propose to make an amendment to the resolution, namely to delete the word'men' because, first, we have not been sitting in the presence of any Member, and secondly, the Senate cannot fall within the competence of Members. This is the first case. And the second, Mr. Marshal, the High Izbo, Mr. Senator Dobrzyński, is: I propose to replace the word "gathering," which is associated with the National Assembly, especially since in the first sentence is the term "National Assembly," the word "gathering." Thank you very much, High Izbo. [[In writing.]] [[The committee's gonna have to come together.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u40	Thank you. I understand that Senator Rulewski has made legislative proposals. Yes? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Janek, take it back, it doesn't make any sense.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: It doesn't make sense! It doesn't make any sense!]] [[Fold it.]] [[Pull it back!]] [[Why don't I take the floor...]] [[He'll be in the transcript.]] [[Take it, take it back.]] Mr. Senator, do I have a formal question about... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But silence, please! Quiet, please. High Izbo... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. [[Don't give up!]] I don't close the discussion because I don't want to, well, physically block the possibility of making an amendment... [[Voice from the room: He'll be in the transcript...]] [[Back it up.]] [[Voice from the room: Close the discussion.]] [[The voice retreats.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[If the PiS country takes note of this mistake, I will withdraw it.]] [[Take it, take it back.]] [[I'm pulling out.]] I see. I understand that the senator is withdrawing... [[Voice from the room: It's withdrawn.]] I see. So there are no legislative proposals. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. The discussion is closed. We're moving on to the next point. The next item is changes in the membership of Senate committees. In principle, it includes only a vote. This vote will be held in the block of all other votes. I'm ordering a recess until 12:30. We will start voting on changes in committee and then there will be more votes on individual laws. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Then there will also be a vote on the selection of the National Courts. Dismissed until 12:30. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 55 to 12 minutes 33]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u41	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators on this matter is included in print 40. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee at its meeting yesterday adopted a draft resolution of the Senate on changes in the membership of Senate committees. I'm gonna read this project because it's very short. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on changes in the composition of Senate committees. .Art. 1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismisses Senator Piotr Ziientarski from the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad. Art. 2. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, chooses: 1) Senator Andrzej Biesiołek to the Committee on Infrastructure, 2) Senator Leszek Piechota to the Legislative Commission, 3) Senator Piotr Ziientarski to the Legislative Commission. Art. 3. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution in print 40. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u43	Thank you. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 29 senators voted against, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has not adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. [[Voice from the hall: First time in the Senate.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the budget law for 2015. Committee on Budgets... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 29 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 57 senators voted against, 27 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of the Act amending the budget law for 2015. We return to the second agenda: a law amending the law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the budget law. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 30 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 58 Senators voted against, 28 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of a law amending the law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the budget law. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 31 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 58 Senators voted against, 4 against, 25 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Finance Act. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 26 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 59 senators voted against, 28 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of a law amending the Public Finance Act. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Tax Administration Act and the Act amending the Tax Order and some other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 32 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 58 Senators voted against, 29 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Tax Administration Act and the Act amending the Tax Order and some other laws. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints No 33 A and 33 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 senators voted against, 4 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on road traffic and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 34 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 58 Senators voted against, 29 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the shaping of the agricultural system. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. At the end of the session, a meeting was held between the Health Committee, which commented on the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject, which is in print No 39 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u44	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Health Commission at its meeting on 17 December 2015 considered the conclusions made during the debate on 17 December 2015 on the Law amending the Law on the revision of the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws. I therefore present to the High Senate the following position: The High Senate is ready to adopt the proposal set out in the first paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u45	Thank you very much, Senator. Does senator Thomas Grodzki still want to speak? [[Thank you very much.]] No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on the proposal of the Health Committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 59 senators voted against, 28 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and the amendment of the Civil Code. The meeting of the Committee on National Self-Government and Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the time of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter; it is published in print No 35 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u46	After hearing the Minister's representative's argument, the Commission proceeded to vote, in which 10 senators were in favour, 5 against, none abstained and asked for the bill to be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u47	Thank you very much. Do Senator Piotr Florek or the other Senator rapporteur Andrzej Pajak want to speak? I take it you didn't. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We are voting on the proposal from the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure supported by the committees to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Komornicki hasn't voted yet... Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted in favour, no one voted against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the bill on the amendment of the Act on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and the amendment of the Civil Code. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: a law amending the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and certain other laws. The Environment Committee presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 38 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 58 senators voted in favour, 28 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 45th anniversary of the tragic events on the coast. I would like to remind you that today a draft resolution has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print no. 41 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 15]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the 45th anniversary of the tragic December phrases on the Coast. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 10th anniversary of the oath by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. I would like to remind you that today a draft resolution has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print 42 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 57 senators voted in favour, no one voted against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 10th anniversary of taking an oath by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. [[Applause]] [[Senators of Law and Justice rise]] [[It's so nice to see you.]] [[Beautiful, yeah.]] We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the selection of senators for the composition of the National Judicial Council. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 3 of the Constitution and Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 the Law of 12 May 2011. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. ...The Senate elects two members of the council from among the senators for a period of four years. I would like to inform you that the following candidates have been submitted to the National Council of Administration: Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Stanisław Gogacz and Senator Piotr Zientarski. The candidates' CVs are included in prints no. 22 and 28. He addressed proposals concerning the applications submitted by the Senate Marshals to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The committee's report is contained in print No 22/28 O. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Michał Sewerynski, to speak and to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm asking you to calm down.]] The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions has given a positive opinion... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] The Commission welcomed the nomination of Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Stanisław Gogach as members of the National Judicial Council. Senator Piotr Ziientarski's candidacy was not approved by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u49	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Before adopting a resolution on the election of the members of the National Judicial Board, the Senate may invite candidates to provide explanations and answer questions of the senators. Do any of you senators want to ask Senator Rafał Ambrozik? [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] I don't see any calls. Do any of you senators want to ask Senator Stanislaw Gogacz? [[Voices from the room: No.]] I don't see any calls. Do any of you senators want to ask Senator Peter Ziientarski? [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] You're welcome, Senator Klich. [[From the spot or...]] As you wish, he could be on the spot.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u50	Mr. Senator, there are a lot of new colleagues in this room who are sitting on senate benches for the first time. I'd like to ask you to give a brief introduction to your legal career so we know more about your legal qualifications.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u51	I am a graduate of the Law Faculty of Adam Mickiewicz University, 1975. Between 1975 and 1977, I took a full-time judge's application, completed with a judge's exam. In addition, in October 1977 I passed the bar exam. I took a three-year solicitor's application, which ended in 1981 with a bar exam. I was doing my lawyer's job. In the war I defended the opponents, I was also the only representative... representing Bishop Ignacy Jej on many issues. The location of churches, the creation of parishes, the construction of a seminary in Koszalin. For this activity as one of the twenty-two lawyers I received a medal of freedom. I also got the status of a victim from the IPN, because I was inefficiently urged to cooperate after I was elected as a delegate for the First National Congress of Lawyers. I am a long-standing social activist, a well-deserved cultural activist, and I also work for people with disabilities. For seven years, I was chairman of the Legislative Commission. During this time, we considered about 300 Court judgments, about 200 were implemented. I was a member of the National Judicial Council. I'm a doctor of law, I have a lot of constitutional law publications. Well, there's so much I can say about myself. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It's weak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u52	Thank you very much, Senator. Here's another question. [[Voice from the room: In a word, the man of the Platform.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u53	I have a question for the honourable senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] I'd like some information about your resume, your bio. You've told me many times that you belong to the Lions Club. If you could get a closer look at what you're doing there, what role you're playing, what role you're doing there... Because that too, I think, is important.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u54	I'm not in any position. I was one of the founders of the Lions Club in Koszalin. The club works exclusively for children, and together with Koszalin Caritas, for many years. I'm also the president of the Association. Cardinal Ignacy Jeża, founded after the death of the Cardinal, and the initiator of the exhibition of the statue of Cardinal Ignacy Jeża, is together with Senator Grażyna Štark, last year, the hundredth anniversary of the birth of the priest. In the century, the foundation stone was laid, and on the hundredth anniversary of the cardinal's birth and name, his monument was unveiled, only through private funds, without any state or local subsidies. The inscription, I suggested it myself, was accepted by the IPN and the memory council above all... I served this great, first bishop of the Kostine diocese, and my father, too, and my uncle Rotauowiec was a fellow prisoner with Bishop Jeża. And the inscription is: the first bishop of the Kostine diocese, the prisoner of the German concentration camp in Dachau, the advocate of Polish-German reconciliation, the great patriot The Association of Members of the European Parliament Father Cardinal Ignacy Jez.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u55	Thank you. Are there any more questions? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u56	With all due respect to your record, I would like to ask you why you did not come to the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions and did not introduce yourself. It was as if the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and the Petitions of you would say so... You didn't get the recommendation, but you couldn't get it because you didn't come to this committee meeting at all. And I'd like to ask you why you didn't come.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u57	I'll tell you what, and I have proof of that. I was at the Home Office. I had an appointment for the last phase of vaccination, so I have a book. My committee knew that. So, unfortunately, I couldn't attend... I had an appointment. [[Voice from the room: For health reasons. Sure.]] I'm out of surgery. I didn't get sick. I've had major sinus, nose and palate surgery. But that's...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u58	Are there any more questions? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u59	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, do you agree that Lions Club is a kindergarten? [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u60	No. [[Calm down, please.]] No, no. I didn't go to kindergarten. And if someone... [[Voice from the room: But they're...]] There are Masonic groups... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please!]] Masonery is of course an official movement, these people call themselves Masons. And the Lions Club was also taken by the Pope, both by John Paul II, as well as Benedict XVI, were blessed at special meetings. So it's old, so to speak, superstition. Many of the people who formed the Lions Club are believers and practicing Catholics who serve people of no self-interest just out of religious motivation. That's what it's all about. It's not a rebound, it's not a political one, it's not a political one. It's just... Our club, for example, only deals with helping children, organizing Christmas trees, theatres. We have children under the care of whom no one is helping, i.e. not from children's homes, but from other homes, rehabilitation by the common room, by the Children's Friends' Society. So that's our business.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u61	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski. [[Voice from the room: I don't know if...]] [[Well, take a look.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a brief question for the senator, a lawyer, a judge of justice. That's what your résumé says. As you judge yesterday's speech by President Andrzej Duda in terms of his disgrace was... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...unclearance of martial law criminals, as well as burial with military honors I'm not quoting exactly because I don't have the text in front of me, but that was the point of a passage from the president's speech. People who committed crimes during the communist period, burying them with military honors in Powązki? I would like to ask you to comment on this statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u63	First of all, I will say that I have consistently been dealing with justice for years, and I have many witnesses for this, for example. The senator sitting here. I consider, as the son of a judge, who is the only one in Koszalin who is distinguished by the judicial community, among others. as a prominent lawyer and founder of the club of Catholic intelligence And I created it with my father Andrzej from the very beginning... Bishop Ignacy the hedgehog was the initiator of my father's distinction. And what's my point? Indeed, I believe that there have been many reservations about the justice system when it comes to the efficiency of the procedure. And I was all for it. In fact, there was a conflict in the National Judicial Council. indirect supervision of the efficiency of the proceedings, but not interfering with judicial independence. Without the slightest interference in independence, but in the efficiency of conduct Yeah, and that's what I was for. Of course, long-term proceedings... I have repeatedly emphasized that in my day, 10, 15 years ago, we talked about this, among others. With Senator Silence, we defended cases that were recognized within a week and are now recognized within 2, 3 years at the first instance of the district court. And we definitely don't like it when it comes to efficiency. Of course, this efficiency also translates into the issues you asked about. But the State cannot be held liable for judgments because it is an independent authority. Well, that's democracy. [[Courts above all else.]] Not above all. Three divisions of power. And I'm sorry, we obviously have influence. Once again, I would like to stress this. We had an influence on the efficiency of the proceedings, the prosecution's office, and then the prosecutor's office was government... After all, the D.A.'s office was also government at the time, after all, Minister Ziobro was when you were in power... And what were the results of this activity? I don't want to remind you here that this gentleman will last... etc. Well, I don't want to talk about it... Of course, there are problems of evidence, the later, the worse, there are reservations about the procedures we have changed. I was the initiator, as chairman of the Legislative Commission, on a very important bill concerning... [[Voice from the hall: Piotr...]] ...a presidential proposal to reinstate assesura. It is very important that the judges are not from the competition conducted by the National Council of Courts, because this is above all her right, based on her grades from her studies, from the judge's exam, the opinion of the judges, but the real case law, as experts. Any luck with that? [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, because it's very important, it's going to translate into efficiency. [[Voice from the room: You're not talking about...]] No, no, I'm speaking specifically. [[You speak beautifully, you're a patron.]] [[But in English...]] No, I'm speaking specifically. You can't... The State may take responsibility for the organisation of the judiciary. He can't take responsibility... Little of this, it cannot create an impression of pressure on independent, independent judicial authority. And those are the rules I am and I will be faithful. [[Voice from the hall: But so humanly, as a man...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u64	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski... [[I'm not gonna talk about other issues because they have nothing to do with the case.]] Senator Rulewski, please... [[Voice from the room: No.]] Okay, Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u65	I would like to ask the senator if it isn't by chance that your attitude towards the matters you've been asked about, you just voted on the resolution on the anniversary of the events on the coast. [[What does that have to do with anything?]] [[Just like he voted for the next one...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u66	Of course I do. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, if we grossly violate the rules of procedure and as senators, we act as Members at the assembly... I think I'm leaving it at all without comment. It's not like I'm on the matter of judging the presidency because that's not the point. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm a legalist.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u67	By order of applications Mr. Senator Golba. [[Hello, hello, Rulewski.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] First Senator Golba, then... [[No, I...]] Mr. Senator Golba and Mr. Senator in a moment. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u68	Mr. Senator Zientarski, I'm here. I'd like to ask you a question. According to this discussion, maybe you're a good lawyer, counsel, etc. But I have a question of a different nature: have you actually examined your application to the National Judicial Council... [[I didn't file my candidacy.]] You have expressed your will. Yes? [[I've agreed to run. Yes.]] And that's why I'd like to ask you if it's your will if someone has given you such an order to report... [[No, no one gave me an order.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Can you answer that question?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u69	No, no, we don't have orders. There's no orders. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I respect the will of every senator. [[Senator Rulewski, please...]] [[Mr. Senator, Mr....]] But I didn't volunteer because I know I'm not gonna be elected, no matter what I say. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'll just say it. But culture dictates that I... [[Voice from the hall: What's the circus for?]] ...to answer your questions. I know you won't vote for me, no matter what I say. I'm fully aware of that. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. President...]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u70	Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u71	Senator, don't break down yet. From your résumé, I learned that you have musical skills, you're the head of a jazz club... [[I was.]] And my question is, if Senator Ryszka had asked you to play him a Christmas carol... [[I'd play.]] ...on this Christmas Eve, would you agree?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u72	I'd play his violin, Jeez. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[I want to talk to you too.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u73	Senator Żaryn. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u74	I'd like to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Anytime.]] [[Calm down, please! Calm down, please! Calm down, please!]] I'd like to return to Senator Jackowski's question. But don't break down either, at least when it comes to my voice. [[Voice from the room: It's one vote.]] [[I'm not breaking down.]] With all your sympathy... There is no doubt that much depends on how you answer the following question. Namely, as you see as a judge, as a person with such a résumé, the state... [[As a lawyer.]] As a lawyer... You've talked about your way of life before... [[The judge's exam. Yes.]] Namely, how do you feel about what you think? With emphasis on the moral aspect of this assessment How did the judge's corporation manage to cope with itself, how could this corporation heal internally after 1989? Are you satisfied with the state of this judge corporation today? And isn't the Polish state actually co-responsible for today's state, also in the moral aspect of the judiciary in Poland? In my case, a positive or negative answer to my questions will make me answer your candidacy. positive or negative. If you care about my voice, I ask for a clear answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u75	Please answer me, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u76	I respect all the senators, which is why I'm here today, even though I know the outcome of the vote and I answer the questions seriously. Let me put it this way: I remember very well the times of the Polish People's Republic; not all judges and prosecutors had to be in the Polish United Workers' Party and my father was not in such a party, and he was an excellent judge, which was assessed after time. And many generations of judges he raised. And there were a lot of people like that, and they weren't exceptions. Of course. That's what I'm talking about. There are many reservations and it is good that the National Judicial Council is not just an emanation of judges, because... Although it is not a corporation, I will not agree with this wording because there is no solidarity... Of course, judges from one department in a given district court may know each other, but judges from a larger court no longer know each other, and from the district court no longer know each other, the other court repeals and treats the judge completely anonymously, not to mention the Supreme Court... With that number of judges We have over 10,000 judges... [[But that's not what I asked.]] The environment is very diverse. [[Voice from the room: But specifically, how do you think it is?]] [[I'm sorry, but I was asking if you thought it was settled with the judge's corporation or not.]] The magistrates were in a certain... I'll answer you. There were judges available, and that's what we remember perfectly. The court of the Navy in Gdynia or the courts... [[Voice from the room: Until today...]] Of course I do. And such judges will be infamous in history. It's hard to say clearly that the Supreme Court or the district court... Depends, which is why I wouldn't generalize here. I believe that thanks to the noble, courageous attitude of many judges... I have spoken to many lawyers who do not favor the environment, the Civic Platform, who have great respect for the courage of the judges of that time, including the Supreme Court judges. There's a different level... That is why I do not want to absolutely generalize, but I am also far from idealizing, absolutely.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u77	Thank you. Senator Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have a question, or actually a request to comment on a speech that has been known for several years. It is about the speech that fell from the mouth of the former President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mr Jerzy Stepnia. It expressed itself more or less in such a way that the illustrative process hits the dignity of man. What is your opinion of this statement? And the second question is, how do you even judge the process of judging in a judge's corporation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u79	I will answer this question willingly, because then during the 2005-2007 term, when this law was also in the Senate, I participated in the discussion and I was against it; you can see what I was saying then. I had great satisfaction that similar words to those I spoke from this lecturer, I found in a later letter of the episcopate of Poland when it comes to judging. That's all I can say. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You can check it out...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u80	Senator Włosowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u81	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. Today and yesterday we spoke a lot in this Chamber about the need to comply with the law, about making it the best possible way. Not only in this room, but also in other halls and in other bodies in our country, there has been a heated discussion recently about the fact that democracy is being broken and the law is not being respected. I would like to quote the wording of the article. Paragraph 19 (3) of our Rules of Procedure, which states: "The Senator participating in the sitting must not deviate from the vote. You can only vote in person. How would you like to comment on whether you and your fellow Members have explained today's behaviour in the vote on point 14 of today's order?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u82	This has already been translated, both by the representative of our club, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka and the senator, who has the full right to speak about the sacred memory of Lech Kaczyński, Senator Rulewski. That's what I'm saying. [[I was asking about the legal side...]] I'm a... I'm a... I'm a... I'm a... I'm a... [[I'd like you to assess whether he was broken or not.]] Well, first of all, the rules were broken because we can't speak... We can't participate in an irregular vote, that's where we start. How can we... [[What kind of irregular?]] Well, Mr. Marshal, if... how can we identify with the envoys? The text is that the Members If you can't see the MPs here so far? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It is not a matter of seeing.]] No, no, no, no, I'm sorry. [[I'm sure I won't vote for you.]] Well, I don't suppose... I didn't even assume in my wildest expectations. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, who is in session?]] [[There you go, Senator Bang...]] [[Mr. Senator, at what point was the rules broken? Please state where it was broken because the senator quoted...]] We don't have ID... [[At what point was he broken... if the rules were broken, tell me where. Please provide the Senator with the rules of procedure. Come on, tell me.]] Maybe we can speak for... I don't know, on behalf of the judges, the episcopate, we can also do well... [[Tell me...]] [[In what mode do you speak?]] [['Cause you're saying there's been a violation of the rules. I'm a Senate marshal and you touched me.]] [[But you're not at all...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But in what mode? Someone else is in session.]] [[Tell me at which point the regulations were broken. There's been a serious charge here. These are serious charges.]] Mr. Marshal, of course, first of all, we as senators can speak on behalf of the senators, only and exclusively. It is a resolution of this House, normal, typical... At least that's what I think, and for seven years I've dealt with the occasional resolutions in the Legislative Commission, and never, as was emphasized here, there's never been a problem, we've always reached consensus. Remember, there were no minority claims, no other... everything was going through the same thing, always. And this is the first time that's happened. We say we're acting on behalf of someone else, someone else's chamber, and we don't have that right. We don't have that right, just like that.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u83	Mr. Senator Bang. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u84	Mr. Senator, I have a brief question for you as a person with a long parliamentary term: what was it like in the previous term? Whether in the composition of the National Judicial Council or e.g. National Public Prosecutor's Council 'Cause these are the legal bodies 'cause any opposition representatives came in?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u85	In the Senate... There were two representatives of the Platform... [[Voice from the room: Two.]] [[Thank you...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Two. I answer...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u86	Mr. Senator Pup. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u87	Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[For the future term will be guaranteed...]] Can I ask the senator a question? [[You're welcome.]] Mr. Senator, you've determined the outcome of the vote by saying that you will not be elected... [[Definitely not.]] ...member of the National Judicial Council. I have the following question for you: why did you agree to the presentation, why this presentation of yours should serve and do you like to lose? [[Voice from the room: Democracy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u88	Sir, these are just democracy rules, that's it. [[Thank you...]] I want to be vetted, I'm not afraid of that. [[By your own will or by your own command?]] [[Mr. Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Chelya.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u90	Mr. Senator, I'll go back to... [[Maybe somebody else would, not me. Anyway, no one's saying...]] [[Voice from the room: You're happy...]] Mr. Senator, I'm going to go back to the question that's been raised and the plea for a non-regular procedure for adoption of a resolution from point 14. I was in the session at that time, and I was also at the meeting of the Legislative Commission. I pointed out in the course of the session that this question and the charge had been raised during the committee meeting. Legislators unanimously, unambiguously... [[Oh, no.]] ...without any doubt, they found that there were no shortcomings in the regulations. [[Mr. Marshal...]] I would like to stress very strongly that a different thing is the content of the resolution, and a completely different irregular way of adopting it. So I repeat the question of Marshal Karczewski: at which point was the Senate's Rules of Procedure broken? Please indicate which particular section of the Rules of Procedure has been broken.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u91	First of all, for me the most important issue is the content of the resolution. This is about active ID, which means authority, authority-- Mr. Marshal, let me remind you that the rules of procedure-- You're referring to the Senate Rules of Procedure. And we, as I say, introduce the Sejm... Out-of-the-box... [[That's what the Members voted for? How many Members voted?]] We cannot enter into the Senate's Rules of Procedure, so to speak, I prefer Members. Because they're just based on their own rules, acting on their own rules. I think it's obvious to everyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u92	Again, I asked you specifically... Mr. Marshal, I didn't get an answer, and you didn't get an answer from Marshal Karczewski either. If there's been a breach of the rules... You're a lawyer. If the regulations have been violated, please indicate which of the sections of the Rules of Procedure has been broken. Specifically. I am not asking for your opinion on the content of the resolution, but about which particular point of the Rules of Procedure has been broken.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u93	In item 1 of the Rules of Procedure... It refers above all to the fact that the Rules of Procedure concern the organisation and vote of the Senate. I stress, Mr. Marshal: the Senate. Please, Section I of the General Provisions. This is about who the rules apply to. The Rules of Procedure apply to the Senate, organisations and senators. Not MPs. [[Let me remind you once again that we voted on the Senate resolution]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u94	Senator Shark. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u95	Mr. Marshal and Mr. Marshal, yesterday I was present at a meeting of the Legislative Commission... [[I wasn't. I'm not on the committee.]] But I was. And I also asked you this question. And the legislators said that every single resolution and every single text can be adopted. This referred to the substance of the request and the question. I asked your marshal to justify it in writing. That's the conclusion. I haven't received an answer until today. I, too, would like to know whose name we speak for. Because I also believe that we can and have the right to speak on behalf of the senators of the Republic of Poland, not on behalf of Members and Senators. And since I did not receive this information, I concluded my request with this question. I am now making a formal request to conclude the discussion because we have gone completely different and I would like to finally conclude this discussion. That is my formal conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u96	And I'll give you the legal basis, because I already have it, I've taken the rules. Art was violated. 1 paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which reads: "The Rules of Procedure of the Senate shall lay down the specific obligations and rights of senators relating to the internal organisation and order of the work of the Senate and its organs, the manner in which the constitutional and statutory duties of the state authorities vis-à-vis the Senate are exercised and the procedure for the provision of information to citizens.' I stress: the duties and rights of senators. We're dealing with a violation of Art. 1 paragraph 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, basic provision.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u97	Mr. Marshal Karczewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u98	As I understand it, Senator Shark has filed a formal motion. Honestly, I don't know what it is. And I don't know if you're a marshal... [[I'm talking about closing the discussion.]] [[I'm talking about closing the discussion.]] Yes? [[Except I don't see any more questions to ask, so...]] But we're not in the middle of a discussion at all... [[Here we are.]] [[Voice from the room: Now there are questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u99	We're in the middle of some questions. And there are no more reports from the senators. So I propose we proceed with the vote on the election of members... Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] ...the National Judicial Council. The Senate shall adopt a resolution on this matter by a secret absolute majority vote in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators. A secret ballot shall take place using sealed ballots. To hold a secret ballot, I appoint Senators of the Secretaries: Senator Robert Dowhan, Senator Luke Mikołajczyk and Senator Alexander Swede. In a moment, the appointed senators will be handing out secret ballots to the senators. The senator can support at most two candidates. A card with the name of each candidate should be marked with one The card will be considered null and void in cases of: giving support to more than two candidates, not putting up any mark, not putting any mark on any of the candidates' names, putting more than one mark on the applicant's name. After completing the ballots of the secret state, the senators will put the cards in the ballot box in alphabetical order. The session will then be adjourned, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to hand out the ballots and the senators to fill out the ballots. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Did all the senators get the cards? [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] Not yet? Then please... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Not all of us... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: After a break, I would like to make a statement. May I?]] But it's over. Okay? Did all the senators receive the ballots? I ask Senator Robert Dowhan to read the names of the senators in alphabetical order, and I ask the senators to post their names in the ballot box.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u100	− Jan Filip Libicki, − Rafał Ambrozik, − Mieczysław Augustyn, − Adam Bielan, − Grzegorz Bierecki, − Przemysław Błaszczyk, − Aleksander Bobko, − Ryszard Bonisławski, − Waldemar Bonkowski, − Marek Borowski, − Bogdan Borusewicz, − Margareta Budner, − Jerzy Chróścikowski, − Zbigniew Silence, − Leszek Czarnobaj, − Grzegorz Czelej, − Jerzy Czerwiński, − Dorota Czudowska, − Wiesław Dobkowski, − Jan Dobrzyński, − Robert Dowhan, − Jarosław Duda, − Jerzy Fedorovich, − Peter Florek, − Robert Gaweł, − Adam Gawada, − Stanisław Gogacz, − Mieczysław Golba, − Arkadiusz Grabowski, − Thomas Grodzki, − Maciej Grubski, − Jan Hamerski, − Jan Jackowski, − Andrzej Kaminski, − Stanisław Karczewski, − Wiesław Kilian, − Kazimierz Kleina, − Bogdan Klich, − Andrzej Kobiak, − Maria Koc, − Stanisław Rogut, − Władysław Komarnicki, − Tadeusz Kopeć, − Margaret Kopiczko, − Waldemar Kraska, − Maciej Łuczak, − Józef Łyczak, − Richard Majer, − Robert Mammoths, − Marek Martynowski, − Łukasz Mikołajczyk, − Andrzej Mioduszewski, − Andrzej Bear, − Krzysztof Frost, − Grzegorz Napieralski, − Jarosław Oremski, − Bogusława Orzechowska, − Andrzej Spider, − Maria Paniczyk-Podziej, − Grzegorz Pekkis, − Marek Pęk, − Wojciech Piech, − Leszek Infantry, − Aleksander Pociej, − Marian the Messenger, − Michał Potkowiczny, − Krystian Probier, − Zdzisław Pupa, − Constantine Radziwiłł, − Marek Rocki, − Tadeusz Romanczuk, − Jadwiga Rotnicka, − Jan Rulewski, − Jarosław Rusiecki, − Sławomir Rybicki, − Czesław Ryszka, − Janina Sagatowska, − Michał Sewerynski, − Krzysztof Elephant, − Waldemar Sługocki, − Andrzej Stanisławek, − Lydia Staron, − Grażyna Sztark, − Aleksander Swed, − Antoni Szymanski, − Raphael the locksmith, − Przemysław Terminski, − Peter Wach, − Arthur Warzocha, − Jerzy Wczyła, − Kazimierz Wind, − Jacek Włosowicz, − Andrzej Wojtyla, − Alice the Hare, − Joseph the Hare, − Barbara Zdrojewska, − Piotr Zientarski, − Jan Zaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u101	Have all the senators voted? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I'm ordering a recess until 1:50 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 31 to 13 minutes 52]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u102	I'm reopening the session. We are back to discussing item 11 of the agenda: the selection of senators for the National Judicial Council. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a secret ballot protocol. I'm declaring the results. The minutes of the secret ballot of 18 December 2015 on the election of the members of the National Judicial Council. Senator Robert Dowhan, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Senator Aleksander Szwed, states that 77 votes were cast in secret vote on the election of members of the National Judicial Council, including 55 valid votes. The absolute majority of votes required shall be 28. The election of Senator Rafał Ambrozik was voted against by 39 Senators, against the 13 Senators. The election of Senator Stanisław Gogach was voted against by 40 senators, against the 12 senators, with three abstentions. The election of Senator Piotr Ziientarski was voted against by 16 senators, against 32 senators. Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Stanisław Gogacz obtained the required absolute majority of votes. [[Applause]] Warsaw, 18 December 2015 And signatures. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of members of the National Judicial Council. The Senate has elected Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Stanisław Gogach to the National Judicial Council. Congratulations to the senators very warmly. I ask senators to approach the presidential table, I would like to give you a resolution on the election. Gentlemen of the Senators, I congratulate you very much and wish you a good job at the National Judicial Council. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]] [[Thank you very much, Marshal.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Congratulations again. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the fifth Senate meeting has been exhausted. I inform you senators that the next Senate meeting was convened on 22 and 23 December this year. The agenda of this meeting and the agenda of the Seniors' Convention were sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than five minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome. You're welcome to the speaker, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to make a statement to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. A group of inhabitants of Mława came to my senator's office with information that with the new timetable of the PKP the stopping of the following trains will be closed: IC 15101 relations Warsaw Zachodnia .Warsaw Zachodnia; IC 1521 relations Warsaw Zachodnia.Olsztyn. PKP Mława station is an important connecting place for people going to central Poland, north and Mazury. The exclusion of as many as 4 trains will significantly reduce travel opportunities for inhabitants of these areas. Therefore, I ask for information on the reasons underlying such a limitation of train stops in Mława and whether the relevant railway companies plan to restore these connections. Declaration addressed to the Minister of Sport and Tourism. My senator's office is visited by representatives of the local government with information about the need to build football fields in rural areas in the near future. I would therefore ask you to inform me whether the Ministry will continue to support the construction of the Orlik field. And a third and last statement addressed to the president of the Institute of National Remembrance. Representatives of patriotic organizations from Ciechanów asked my senator's office to inform that the resolution of Ciechanów City Council on the establishment of a natural-landscape team was to be adopted in the near future. The area is directly connected to the area where the NKVD camp functioned in the 1940s. There is a strong presumption that the site of the group of the Lydyn River Valley may contain remains of the victims of Soviet terror. I therefore ask for information as to whether it is possible to investigate this area, and I ask that information concerning this camp be made available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u104	Thank you, Senator. Now you're gonna make a statement from Senator Rafał Ambrozik. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u105	I would like to make a statement to the President of the Council of Ministers, Ms Beata Szydło, to the Attorney General, Mr Andrzej Seremet, to the President of NIK, Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, and to the Head of CBA, Mr Ernest Bejda, on the clarification of the circumstances of the delay in publication in 2014. tax havens and State budget losses associated with this. In 2014, the issue of delaying the publication of the Journal of the Laws with the Law on the so-called "law" was mediaally high. tax havens, resulting in losses of the state budget estimated at several billion zlotys. The case was to be examined by the prosecutor, the Supreme Audit Chamber and the CBA, and was to be the subject of internal control at the Prime Minister's firm. I ask all addressees of the statement for the following information. What arrangements have been made in this regard? Have the persons responsible for delaying publication in the Official Journal been identified? Have these persons been held responsible for service or criminal activity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u106	Thank you very much, Senator. You will now make a statement to Senator Jan Żaryn. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u107	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to make a statement and at the same time ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the situation that I am familiar with, which I learned about mostly through the Polish Union in Italy, but also other representatives of the Polish emigration, which Polish emigration was appalled by information about the lack of respect for the place of the fight and the place where Polish soldiers were killed, including soldiers of other armed forces, armies of other countries and nations who fought in the battle for Monte in the Second World War. Cassino. I would like to know, ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for information on what steps were taken primarily by the Polish embassy at the Cvirinale in Rome to obtain information, in the first place from the Prior of the monastery on Monte Hill Cassino, concerning the circumstances of the sale of land, the circumstances connected with the creation of a small town there, which will be a shopping mall, in addition to the mall in which it will be, among others, It's sold, as we know, alcohol. Surely this place can be exposed, even without intent, to a deep insult, this situation may expose those people who fought and died there in 1944. Therefore, I am referring to information about the legal status and situation created by the convent and a specific person, the Prior of the monastery, on the one hand. On the other hand, I would ask for information on how the Polish State intends to intervene and what instruments the Polish State would like to use on the international stage in relations between Poland and Italy, so that this process, which is just going on there, stop, stop, and preferably stop. Okay, turn it around. End of statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator? [[Yes.]] Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u109	Mrs. Marshal, I didn't see it coming. I made these three statements together with Senator Krzysztof Elephant, and I didn't see that coming. I'd ask you to take that into account. It's like, I don't know, in correction or complement mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-18-senat-05-2.u110	Okay, top-up mode. Thank you very much, Senator. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no messages. Good. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the fifth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. Thank you. The fifth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 14 minutes 05]]
