ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I am calling for the secretaries of today's proceedings Agata Borowiec, Małgorzata Golinska, Piotr Łukasz Babiarz and Piotr Olszówka. In the first part of the session, the secretaries will be Agata Borowiec and Piotr Łukasz Babiarz. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Małgorzata Golińska and Piotr Łukasz Babiarz. I consider the minutes of the 3rd session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Izbo! I inform you that in connection with the expiry of the mandates of Mr Sławomir Kłosowski, Mr Piotr Pszczółkowski, Mr Tomasz Tomczykiewicz and Mr Czesław Hoca on the basis of the article. 251 § 5 of the electoral code I have decided to replace Mrs Katarzyna Czochary, Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Mrs Ewa Kołodziej and Mr Stefan Strzałkowski, who have applied for the vow of a parliament. I ask Members to approach the Presidency table. Ladies and gentlemen, please rise. Are all your Members here? Mr Strzalkowski is. I'll read the vows now. I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. Mrs Katrzyna Czochar.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u2	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u3	Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u4	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u5	Mrs Ewa Kołodziej.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u6	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u7	Mr Stefan Strzalkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u8	I promise. So help me God. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u9	Thank you very much. I state that Katarzyna Czochara, Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Mrs Ewa Kołodziej and Mr Stefan Strzałkowski have taken a parliamentary vow. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the current item from the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm (print No 64). The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - amending the budget law for 2015, - amending the Law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the Law on Budgets, - specific arrangements for implementing the 2016 budget law, - amending the Investment Funds Act and certain other laws. The designs are prints Nos 65, 66, 67 and 69 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The groups of Members have submitted draft laws: - amending the Road Traffic Law Act and certain other laws, - amending the Tax Administration Act. The projects are printed in 68 and 76 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau submitted draft resolutions: - to celebrate the 82nd anniversary of the Great Hunger in the territory of present Ukraine and to pay tribute to its Polish victims, - on the establishment of the Polish Inter-Paramental Union Group. The designs are printers No 60 and 78 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in a joint discussion in the first readings of the government's draft laws in prints 65 and 66. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in the first readings of the draft laws on: - amendments to the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, - amendments to the drug refund law. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on the functioning of museums in the context of the country's historical policy, which was requested by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u10	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - at 3 p.m. 11.30, - Culture and Media - at 3 p.m. 11.30, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 12, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - at 3 p.m. 12, - to the Secret Service at about an hour. 13, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 13, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping - at 3 p.m. 13, - Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs - at 3 p.m. 13, - to Energy and Treasury - at 3 p.m. 14, - Local Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 15, - for Petitions - at 3 p.m. 16, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - at 3 p.m. 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - at 3 p.m. 18, - Administration and Home Affairs - at 3 p.m. 19. Communication on Teams meetings: a Parliamentary Group meeting will be held today. Polish cities - at 3 p.m. 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u11	Thank you very much. We proceed to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the celebration of the 82nd anniversary of the Great Hunger in the area of present Ukraine and tribute to its Polish victims (print No 60). High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, please rise from your places. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the text of the draft resolution. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on honoring the 82nd anniversary of the Great Hunger in the area of present Ukraine and paying tribute to its Polish victims. The 20th century was particularly heavily marked by the crimes of Soviet totalitarianism. In 1932, 1933 several million people were starved to death as a result of the planned famine in the Ukrainian Socialist Soviet Republic and Cuba. The scale and cruelty of this crime is unique. It touched everyone in large areas of the country without exception. Members of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland bow their heads respectfully over millions of victims of the Great Hunger and join in pain with the Ukrainian people. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland also pays special tribute to tens of thousands of Poles who died as a result of this criminal action in the territory of the then Ukrainian Socialist Soviet Republic. Their victim is calling for memory. Conscious of the immensity of omissions and omissions, which cause that Polish victims of the Great Hunger do not find a worthy place in the national memory, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland asks the institutions of science and culture to begin urgent work aimed at documenting this crime. We must take the task of counting and identifying Poles - victims of the Great Hunger, as well as proper commemoration of them. [[Applause]] I understand that in this way the Sejm adopted a resolution on celebrating the 82nd anniversary of the Great Hunger in Ukraine today and paying tribute to its Polish victims. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws (print No 68). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Act amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws. The Act amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws is related to the planned postponement of the deadline for implementing the IT project CEPiK 2.0. This project has been implemented by the Ministry of the Interior since September 2013. Its aim is to rebuild and modernise the central register of vehicles, the central register of drivers, as well as to build a central register of car park card holders. The basic legal act to create the legal framework for the implementation of the CEPiK 2.0 project is the Act of July 2015 amending the Road Traffic Law Act and some other laws. It assumes that the data collected in the central vehicle register and in the central driver register will be expanded. It also provides for the establishment of rules for the clarification of non-compliance, the creation of a uniform technical framework for the entry of data into the central vehicle register and the central register of drivers and the establishment of rules for the entry of data in the records when carrying out the activities resulting in the transmission of data and the extension of the catalogue of entities authorised to access the data from the records. Ladies and gentlemen! The Act was originally intended to enter into force on 4 January 2016, but it is necessary to indicate in the new deadline in order to postpone the deadline for implementation of the project. We propose here a 12-month shift and a date of 1 January 2017 as the date of entry of these provisions. The delay of the launch of the Central Vehicle and Driver Registration IT system built within the CEPiK 2.0 is related to insufficient preparation of the system's users for its implementation. It depends not only on the state of work on the changes to the central system, but also on the degree of adaptation of the external IT systems of operators supplying the central vehicle register and the central register of drivers. Ladies and gentlemen! Entities cooperating with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, mainly local authorities, including the Polish Districts Association, as well as other entities in October, November and December this year. raise a number of reservations indicating that this system was not prepared for entry into force at the beginning of January. The Polish County Union already in October at the meeting of the joint government and local government committee called for this deadline to be postponed e.g. About six months. According to the proposal of the Polish County Association, the law would apply e.g. from June 2016 Ms Monika Małowiecka from the Polish County Association indicated that in the project CEPiK 2.0 a number of actors are involved, but there is no one responsible for the whole project. As the joint government and local government committee said, this system has not been tested long enough as a whole, and there has been a lack of training for several thousand district employees in the communication departments, as well as pilot implementation and correction of the system. On 23 October, the Polish Districts Association issued a position in which it proposed to postpone the date of entry into force of the new rules or to introduce solutions for the implementation of these services under the transitional provisions. As regards further joint work, on 3 December, the Polish County Association sent a letter in which it is already very strongly claimed - here you signed the President of the Board of the Polish Districts Association Mr.Ludwik Węgrzyn - that there is no possibility to enter the Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers system since the beginning of the year, CEPiK 2.0 . According to the Polish Districts Management Board, the mere preparation of regulations without appropriate training, testing and implementation of IT solutions is not sufficient for this system to function, and therefore real paralysis can really occur, especially in the county offices. Ladies and gentlemen! The Poznań Starosta also added his opinion to the opinion of the Polish County Association. Maybe I won't read it because I hope it's available to all of you. This opinion is extremely critical in its content as to the date of entry into force of the CEPiK 2.0 system, but for example it is worth mentioning the situation of voivodship centres of road traffic. Well, it's estimated that about 300,000. people will want to pass the exam in one of the 49 voivodship road traffic centres in January 2016. Turns out it won't always be possible. The reason is the IT system used to conduct theoretical examinations. According to the regulations, current software can be used until 3 January 2016 and after possible entry into force of the new system it will no longer be possible to use this software. The amendment of the Road Traffic Law does not address the issue of examination systems used in centres, and concerns inter alia. the extension of the entry into force of the rules on the CEPiK and the probationary period and supervision of the drivers. This means that systems can now only be used until 3 January 2016. And so 19 WORDs still do not have a signed contract with any system contractor, others are in the process of signing agreements with the previous contractor, i.e. The Polish Securities Printing Works, and others and therefore these WORDs are protesting that they will not be able to carry out their tasks on the basis of new regulations if the CPiK 2.0 law enters into force at the beginning of the year. Ladies and gentlemen! In the written statement accompanying the proposed amendment to the Act, we explain in detail the specific provisions which will be required to be adapted. This applies to 8 laws: on road traffic, on the universal obligation to defend, on the drivers of vehicles, on the amendment of the Road Traffic Act and some other laws of 2013, Criminal Code, on family benefits, on the amendment of the Road Traffic Act of July 2015 and Tax Order. However, all of these provisions are intended to avoid the situation in which the counties, in particular the district offices and other institutions I mentioned, strongly claim that they will not be able to implement this system and that we are simply threatened with IT chaos and that we cannot, for example, carry out their intentions by citizens who want to register vehicles or pass driving licences. That's why we're asking for a 12-month shift. I know that there was a discussion and I also met with such opinions as I spoke with representatives of municipal or district offices, that they applied for six months, and the ministry also at the beginning wondered about the number of months. We believe that a safe date that will allow and test systems, and settle tenders, and implement new IT systems in powiats and voivodship traffic centres, and first of all train a huge mass of people, which after all goes into hundreds or thousands, such a safe date that will allow it to do so, will be 1 January 2017. I understand that this project will be discussed in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u13	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice will be spoken by Edward Sulphur. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of my club Law and Justice I have the honour to present our position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. This project is included in print No 68. At the very beginning of my speech, I will remind you that the IT system of the Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers is one of the largest state registers that was created in 2003 and has been systematically expanded by further segments since then, as well as entities that have the power to access the data collected there. The system of central vehicle records for today collects data entered by 380 powiats, 4 thousand. control stations as well as 7 000. Driver training centres. These figures already show that we are dealing with a system that is very extensive and complex in many places, so it is important to issue all information about vehicles, i.e. in this case registrations or driving licences. This system, as I said, has been built for years and as far as the vehicle registration system is concerned, it contains information about vehicles, their owners and also provides for some time, which is important, data on the theft of vehicles or lost registrations, license plates or vehicle cards. This system contains data on the car insurance contract and the results of periodic technical tests, including the mileage of the car. This issue is so important that it allows us today to follow exactly the mileage of cars driven by, in a situation where we want to buy such a car as a used car. On the other hand, with regard to the central register of drivers, it collects data on drivers who are entitled to drive and those who have withdrawn such rights. The system contains data on persons to whom a criminal measure in the form of a driving ban has been ordered by the court, e.g. because of the DUI or the drugs. The scope of the data collected in this register is to be substantially expanded or expanded as of January 2016 following the entry into force of the Act of 5 January 2011 on driving vehicles and the Act of 24 July 2015 amending the Road Traffic Law in so far as this concerns the functioning of the Central Vehicle and Driver Records. In practice, it has turned out that the system has been built for years, as the applicant has said here, in many places inefficient, hence the decision of the Minister of Home Affairs to build the CEPiK 2.0 system. - so it was named and this decision was taken in 2013 a system which allows to effectively manage the information contained in the records also based on new technologies, because it is well known that there are major changes to the IT issues. It was assumed in the actions of the Civic Platform government that the IT Center entrusted with building this system will be able to handle this task by the end of this year. Unfortunately, this did not happen and it is therefore necessary to postpone this deadline to January 2017. And precisely in this area, which we are talking about today, is the draft law in question, so that all these provisions concerning the introduction of additional data are in force only from 2017. In the construction of the new system, it is also important to lay down rules for clarifying the different types of non-conformity of data, in particular the drivers of vehicles, those with penalty points, those to whom those points [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then it was canceled. Therefore, the system is so complex that it requires total time today to implement it effectively. The club is in favour of further work on the project in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u15	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stanisław Lamczyk will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic Law and certain other laws contained in Seym Print No. 68. The project involves, first of all, extending the deadline needed for the full implementation of the CepiK 2.0 IT project. Work on the project has been carried out in the Ministry of the Interior since 27 September 2013 and the intended purpose of the new system is to modernise the central vehicle register and the central driver register, and a central register of car card holders is to be created. The introduction of the CEPiK 2.0 system will enable drivers to check on the Internet, among others. the number of penalty points, etc. They are to serve this service.Check out my permissions and check the information about the criminal points. In the future, e-services will allow you to pay a mandate or access vehicle information. The CEPiK 2.0 provides for the extension of the data collected in the above mentioned registers, the establishment of rules for the explanation of non-compliance, the creation of a uniform technical framework for the entry of data into the central vehicle register, the central register of drivers and the central register of car card holders, the establishment of the rules for the entry of data in the records during the execution of the activities resulting in the transmission of data and the extension of the catalogue of entities authorised to access data from the records. The Act was originally intended to enter into force on 4 January 2016, but as a result of the delay in the implementation of the CEPiK 2.0 project, the applicants propose that the new deadline be indicated in the provisions of the new deadline from 1 January 2017. The CEPiK 2.0 project will be a very beneficial solution for drivers and vehicle owners, so you need to do everything you can to create a coherent, safe, well-organized and user-friendly system. Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club also requests further work on this project in committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u17	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to speak with Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed bill amending the Road Traffic Law and some other laws is tidy and here we are all in favour of it being shifted over time. Its main objective is to postpone the date of entry into force of the CEPiK 2.0 system due to the lack of implementation of relevant technologies by a number of institutions (mainly referring to district and similar institutions). And in this respect, of course, it is worthy of support. At the same time, we want to point out that we should think deeply about the CEPiK system itself. Let us remember that over PLN 1 billion has already been spent on this system since the beginning and it still does not function. We should really consider whether this is money spent well, and spending public money should always be close to the heart. On this occasion, however, it is also worth considering other elements and drawing attention to the basic legal act which is to create a legal framework for the implementation of the CEPiK 2.0 project, i.e. the Act of 24 July 2015 amending the Traffic Law and some other laws, which include, inter alia: a significant extension of the scope of data collected in the central vehicle register and the central register of drivers, the establishment of the rules for entering data in the records when carrying out activities resulting in the need to transfer data and the extension of the catalogue of entities authorised to access data from the abovementioned records. These are very important elements. When analysing the various points of the Act, it should be noted that e.g. in the case of data resources relating to drivers and persons who are not entitled to 20 specified types of information which will be included there, up to 13 are new categories which are not present in the previous register, as well as the list of public authorities authorised to consult those data. Of course, some of these institutions already had access to this information on the basis of other legal acts, but in addition to the minister responsible for social security, the head of the social assistance centre and the social worker has also been added, which we think is scandalous. We have quite serious doubts as to whether such extension of the range of persons who have access to personal information, to sensitive information, is not a violation of our civil rights to the protection of personal data. In this respect, concerns are raised by various NGOs that deal with the protection of personal data. Interestingly enough, by the way, art. Point 7 (1) (c) of this document states that registration fees are expressed in euro. In my opinion, and in our opinion, this is not justified because in Poland there is a currency of zloty and we do not see the need for such manners to apply and express any fees in foreign currencies. In our view, therefore, in addition to the withdrawal at the time of the amendment, it is imperative to discuss the shape of vehicle records, drivers and car park card holders, i.e. systems where very broad personal data concerning most citizens and almost all sensitive data are collected. The appropriateness of collecting data in these individual institutions should be considered in this discussion. In addition to this, it is also important to rethink changes in the acquisition of driving rights, which appear to be excessively restrictive, costly, detached from road realities and which cause unnecessary inequalities to the law for individual road users, here are a number of examples. In conclusion, we strongly support the proposal to postpone at the time of the adoption of the amended opinion not only because of the lack of technical preparation for the introduction of the CEPiK 2.0 system, but also because of the need for a serious debate on the content of the Act and the need to make a number of changes in it based on sound public and sectoral consultations. Today, according to the wording of the Act, its provisions appear to be written only and exclusively under the dictation of the Police, without taking into account the opinions of NGOs, including those representing drivers, and without taking into account our interests in the protection of personal data. Besides, as far as this procedure is concerned, I felt it on my own, trying in the last term of the Sejm to represent various organisations and associations of drivers who were not allowed practically once to consult the public in the scope discussed here. We hope that the time gained today will be used for the necessary changes and adjustments, so that the legal acts coming out of the Sejm are for people and not against people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u19	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I have the pleasure of presenting my position on behalf of the Poselski Club in relation to the draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. To begin with, I would like to say a few words about what it is, or what the new CEPiK is supposed to be. It is an electronic system that collects, stores and makes available information about drivers, vehicles and car park card holders. The system is to collect and share information about the above mentioned tens of thousands of institutions. The aim of the CEPiK 2.0 project is, as mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, the reconstruction and modernisation of existing central vehicle registers, the central register of drivers, as well as the construction of the central register of car card holders, which together are to create the said CEPiK. Unfortunately, experts examining the work on this issue highly critically assess the efficiency of this project. They also stress that participation in the procedure of institutions or persons, organisations with practical knowledge of such issues, including local authorities, has indeed been limited, but apparently even some ministries. I would like to make it clear here: the result of this work, not the insufficient preparation of system users for integration, is the delay resulting, among others. a procedated project, the essence of which is to postpone the implementation of the CEPiK 2.0 system by one year. . And really, what we as Modern repeat as a mantra is on our lips: Poland can really be better organized for the same money. After all, a simple analysis of the state of the art of regulation is enough to conclude that future users could not adapt to integration with CEPiK. Probably even today, that is four weeks before the planned startup of the system, we do not have some of the legal acts necessary for the functioning of the CEPiK. In addition, I would like to put a fundamental question to the assessment of this issue: How should their ICT systems be prepared by users, since there are also supposedly no complete technical requirements? In order not to be literal about leaving much to wish for the pace and quality of the work, I will give a simple example. Well, the first, very general description of API to CEPiK 2.0 for PKK reached the interested only on 27 May this year, while the described noisy as a complete documentation of integration documentation was submitted only on 28 September, i.e. just 3 months before the planned launch of the CEPiK, and, what is important, according to specialists, it did not contain all the complete information anyway. And here, referring to the words of the applicant's representative, I would ask you to explain how the voivodship centres of road traffic or old age were to prepare themselves for the implementation of the system, since they did not have basic information on this issue, namely, first, the rules and, second, the descriptions of processes and technical information, and in addition, the legislator in a completely incomprehensible way ordered WORD to exchange software just before the system was launched. It just couldn't have worked. What is also worthwhile, experts report that there is no test environment today and that no piloting has been carried out in this matter. On the other hand, cells that create this type of legislation do not seem to be fully prepared for it. I'll skip the fact that it's only now in the article. 80d paragraph. 5 We introduce financing for the creation of a catalogue of brands and types of vehicles. So how was all this supposed to be created if there was no provision for financing this kind of thing? That's another question. So, in view of the above, the Modern One is aware that the entry into force of these provisions at the original date of January 4 would simply cause unwritten chaos. I think that our citizens would seriously doubt whether Poland as a country is able to carry out any IT project in such a way as to ensure its effective implementation. Therefore, I would like to say immediately that the delay in the date of entry into force for 2017, which is at least a year, is right, but I will also say immediately, looking at the history of what has been happening so far with this project, that we have to ask ourselves whether this year is enough. I have serious doubts about this. And we have a series -- I'm running out of time, so I'm just going to mention -- notes about the matter of the project itself. [[♪ The bell ♪]] First of all, this is the time - whether a year is enough. Secondly, we would like to hear from the Ministry's representative when all technical documentation will be made available, when even draft legislation will be drawn up, because then we will be able to say whether a year is sufficient or not, what additional costs this transition period of 24 months will cause for institutions that have 24 months to adapt to the integration with CEPiK. After all, it is known that they will still have to design and implement something in order to work during the transition period, so it will generate additional costs. And possibly, it would also be necessary to examine the appropriateness of the Ministry's obligation to create a test environment that would allow prior testing of the final solutions to the users of the CEPiK system, because it is not possible to implement something immediately for use, because there may be further complications. We also have...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u21	Mr President, I would also like to ask you to move slowly to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u22	Two, three sentences, Mr. Marshal. May I?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u23	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u24	Thank you very much. I would also like to raise doubts about the authorisation of a social worker to consult the CEK and the CEP. We think it's a little too much of a range and that it's practically opening the way to the flow of this data outside. And in general, summing up, on behalf of the Posel Club I request that this project be sent back to the committee for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u25	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, on this item, we are bent on the draft law amending the Road Traffic Law with its main point, which concerns the shift of the deadline, the date of implementation of the CEPiK 2.0 system from 4 January 2016 to 1 January 2017. On the basis of CEPiK 2.0 is intended to improve public services for the benefit of citizens. For this to happen, it is necessary to create an efficient, complete, proven and thoroughly tested ICT tool. In addition, it is necessary to train a few thousand participants in this system, I mean district governments, old offices, communication departments, I mean centres Driver training, I mean vehicle control stations. It is in this system that the data, the information that my previous speakers have already mentioned, is to be included. For this to happen and for these assumptions and expectations to be met, a process of comprehensive preparation is needed and time is needed. According to data and information provided by the Polish Securities Printing Works, as of December this year. IT work on the system has not yet been completed, piloting or testing has not been carried out. It must be noted that there are also legislative delays - we still do not have the final version of the implementing regulations governing the functioning of the CEPiK 2.0. It follows from the above that the proper start-up of the central system at the beginning of the new year is not real. This would result in total paralysis of the functioning of the communication departments in the powiats and thus inability to serve citizens. This was the opinion expressed by local authorities operating within the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. The Polish Districts Association has repeatedly warned about the risks associated with the failure to perform tests of the entire system, piloting and training. It is also known the position of the Polish County Association of 23 October this year, in which we can read or read, among others, that in addition to the already mentioned shortcomings in the area of legislation we do not know when and who will provide a catalogue of brands and types of vehicles determining the possibility of registering them. The procedure for issuing certificates to users allowing the entry of data into the system has not started. The Securities Printing Works, on the other hand, states that the new system's manufacturing work will be completed by mid-March 2016 and that the implementation piloting can be completed by mid-May 2016. In addition, no tests have been carried out on the operation of the connections between the districts and the central base. Postulates of the Polish County Association were adopted by the local government party of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission and presented at the meeting of this committee on 28 October and as a formal proposal of the local government party addressed to the government party. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our club has adopted a position that talks about supporting this project for further work. I think it will also be an expression of respect for local governments, for local government corporations, the Polish Districts Association and other local governments, because in these activities care for good preparation and security prevails. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the functioning of the public administration at the appropriate level. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u27	Thank you very much, sir. The following Members joined the questions. The first Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party. Question time - 2 minutes. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicant, because he rightly pointed out in his speech to the voivodship traffic centres as an essential link to this proposed CEPiK system. These mentioned regional road traffic centres, WORD directors, the directors' association has been calling for a few weeks in this amendment, which you have prepared, to include a statutory delegation allowing WORDs to use existing IT systems just after 3 January 2016. The WORD directors, who are closely following this amendment, do not see any clear regulation that would help them much at this difficult time. I would like to address the question to the applicant on this occasion. Is it possible, in the course of the work, to include such an important delegation, which will allow the WORDs, first of all, without perturbing, but this is also in the interest of those who pass the WORD exams, which are very few, to mitigate the possible negative effects? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u29	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u30	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a very brief question for the Members of the applicants. Namely, whether they analysed how the delay in implementation of the CEPiK would affect the financial situation of the entities which created the so-called. driving technology improvement centres? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u31	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Arthur Szałabawka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two short questions. Previously prepared by the government of the Civic Platform and the CPiK PSL cost up to now about PLN 1 billion. I have a question, and it is not to the Member of the applicant, but to the Government, whether a comprehensive and thorough control is planned, for which this money has been spent so far. We have a project for which local authorities already knew in advance that it would not be implemented. What we're doing today is sending him back for a year, or maybe we had to send him back for two years, or we could even think about whether he was properly introduced. Another question. Do the applicant and the government realise that there is a situation of full surveillance of people, because drivers are also persons, these are the people of our country who will be monitored by thousands of units operating in our country? Shouldn't it be possible to narrow down institutions that have the ability to move and process these personal data without prejudice to drivers who want to benefit and wish to use this system, for example to find out how many points they have and what their situation looks like? Because this is a very dangerous case. Thousands of institutions will have insights into millions of data, very concrete, very accurate data of our country's citizens. I'd ask you to think about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u33	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. In view of the above, please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Tomasz Zdzikot. You're welcome, Mr... Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! At the beginning, I will point out that there is no official position of the Council of Ministers at this stage of the legislative work. However, as a representative of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, I can say that I believe and believe this project not only to be justified and justified, but also to be necessary, because it is true that what Mr Czartoryski said on behalf of the group of applicants is not prepared for implementation on 4 January 2016. As regards the questions that have been raised in the Chamber, as there have been several votes and questions concerning implementing acts, I will allow myself to give this information immediately. As regards the implementing acts, this basic law referred to was the July Act amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws, which provided for the issuing by the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. internal 25 implementing acts. Of these implementing acts, 22 remain to be issued at all times. [[Applause]] It's December 8th. These 22 legal acts, these 22 regulations have received a working preliminary acceptance of the joint government and local government committees. This is the stage of legislative work, which in theory gives the possibility to issue these regulations this year, however, given the voice of the local government and the position expressed very unambiguously by the union of powiats, it seems that this dialogue and consultation should be conducted and we should have time to tighten it up and lead it primarily with the local government. To the remaining extent, five more implementing acts remain under the responsibility of the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. infrastructure, so today the implementation of the CEPiK 2.0 system 27 implementing acts still need to be adopted. With regard to the audit of the implementation process of CEPiK 2.0, because that was the question, yes, of course, in all resorts, audits are currently ongoing in all ministries related to the reports of opening of individual resorts. The results, I think, will be known soon. As I stress, the position of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration vis-à-vis the draft law tabled by the group of Members is clearly positive, which already points to a certain assessment of the way in which these work is carried out and prepared for the CEPiK 2.0 project. . Actually, that's it for me. If there are specific comments on the statutory provisions, I hope that there will be a chance to discuss them more extensively on the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, representative of the applicants, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Szałabawka asks for a review of those regulations and normative acts which concern the law. Yeah, here's the full agreement, I mean. above all, we will probably work on the committee, but there will also be this year of time to carry out - already mentioned by the Minister - such a review. If it is necessary to improve these documents, it will be done. In fact, the best answer to your question is this position, which was prepared by the Polish Districts Association on 2 November. I'm gonna read a piece of this magazine because it's significant. Well, the Polish County Association claims that it is unacceptable that three years of work by the Ministry of Home Affairs on the CepiK 2.0 project, in which no self-government party was involved, would result in a massive drop of dozens of draft regulations, none of which would give the opportunity to accept without amendments. Each of these projects should be subject to a separate consultation on the proposed provisions. So we will probably have a lot of work to do this year, and I think that these 12 months are the minimum period during which this work can be done. Mr Zembaczyński asked about the centres of improvement. I understand that these centres of improvement have invested for this and have prepared themselves to implement it properly. New rules. It seems that this money or this commitment will not be wasted, because anyway, the system will enter. The driver improvement system will be as useful as possible, because there is no whole revolution - it is only necessary to move forward in time, not destroy the whole idea of introducing such a system. Also with regard to Mr Paszyk's question about the posting of these provisions to the WORDs, so that they can continue to function so that they do not stop at the beginning of next year, I think it is obvious. As for the details of how it would look, we will probably be asking the government side today on the Board of Administration and Home Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u37	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic Law and certain other laws contained in print No 68 to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws (print No 62). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mrs Anna Surówka-Pasek, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The President of the Republic of Poland has sent a draft law to the High House, which aims to restore the previously applicable rules on retirement. First of all, these include reducing the retirement age to 60 for women and 65 for men. Reducing the retirement age or the effective retirement age is not equivalent to having to retire. It should be pointed out here again that, in the light of the revision of the Labour Code and the current interpretation made by the Supreme Court, the achievement of the retirement age cannot be the criterion for the employer, which will cause the worker to lose his job. On the other hand, these changes of law, which were introduced in 2012, were aimed at extending the period during which someone would be active, to extend this period of professional activity to 67 years, in particular without any consultation with the environments concerned, and were even introduced at an express rate. In examining the time during which these changes took place, less than a month ago the Sejm was discussing the adoption of a law introducing these changes. The omission of the public voice here, especially the opportunity to speak out to citizens, has led to great opposition. It was also rejected by the High House, at that time sitting, a request from citizens to hold a national referendum to determine whether they really want reform in this direction to increase the retirement age. On the other hand, raising the retirement age alone cannot be a cure for the collapse of the Social Insurance Fund. It's not like that. First of all, it should be noted that while life expectancy is increasing, it is not the life expectancy in good health. These are often people who will have to work longer, although they have a worse health condition. Following the extension of this period of professional activity, no changes were made in order to lead to growth. the effectiveness of the health care system, especially the care of workers who are over 60 years of age. Another new problem observed, particularly in 2015: while unemployment has fallen globally, unemployment has increased in the population of people around the age of retirement, particularly in the group of workers or potential workers aged 60 and over. The expected result was therefore not achieved by increasing the income of the Social Insurance Fund. Another problem that emerged here, which was also not taken into account at the time of the reform, is growth the number of persons receiving pre-retirement benefits. This increase also resulted in an increase in expenditure. This demand to increase the income of the Social Insurance Fund has still not been met either. The difference between the age of men and women, the age of retirement, does not constitute discrimination for two reasons. Firstly, as the Constitutional Tribunal pointed out in its ruling in 2010, this is an expression of its aim to ensure social justice, especially with regard to the roles that a woman plays in her family life, in her social life. Secondly, it is also not discrimination when a woman is not forced to retire when she has reached or has reached the age of 60, she will be able to decide herself whether she is able to continue her professional activity. The amendment proposed by your President also sets out those issues which have been raised by the amendments introduced by the Act of 11 May 2012. First of all, it aims to close the partial pension when those who are currently entitled to a partial pension are entitled to a full pension. It also reduces the age at which it is possible to retire for judges and prosecutors, which, through the amendment, was raised to 67 years of age. It also introduces changes in pensions for farmers, also reducing the age at which they can retire. In the opinion of the President, raising the retirement age is merely an attempt to mask the problems of the Social Insurance Fund, with the payment of pensions. These changes should be systemic. Firstly, they should take into account the state of health of the concerned, so they should also aim to improve the quality and quantity of public services provided. Secondly, these changes should also aim to activate the labour market so that those who are about the age of retirement, or those who want to continue working, are able to do so. At the moment, this possibility is limited to them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u39	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Ms Urszula Rusecka on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws, print No 62. Pursuant to the Act of 11 May 2012 amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws, hereinafter referred to as the Act of 11 May 2012, without any social acceptance and detailed analyses, a gradual increase and equalisation of the retirement age of 60 years for women and 65 years for men has been introduced, contrary to the expectations of Poles and Poles, until the age of 67 for both sexes. This process covered women born after 31 December 1952 and men born after 31 December 1947. In response to the social expectations and commitments made to Poles during the presidential and parliamentary campaign, and also in view of the good of Poles who have expressed the need for changes in the pension system in recent parliamentary elections, I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice relating to the draft new law on pensions. The previous Sejm voted by the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party in principle pushed the referendum on this issue without public consultation and expected by Poles to amend the bill raising the retirement age to 67 for men and women. The draft Act of 11 May 2012 not only caused the need to work at an age for some Poles above their health opportunities and productivity, but also introduced many complex transitional provisions. The detailed characteristics of these provisions can be found in the justification for the draft amendment of the law submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland. It can already be said today that the bill adopted in the previous term of office of the Sejm did not cause any improvement in the state of public finances, and the economic assumptions set out in the explanatory memorandum of the previous law were wrong and non-social. The draft Act amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland are in line with the principles of the Economic Programme of Law and Justice. It is wrong to think that extending the retirement age will reduce unemployment and, consequently, maintain GDP growth and tax revenues from companies that will not be forced to liquidate jobs in the coming period of reduced labour supply, and the deterioration of the proportion between the generation of people of working age paying social security contributions and the generation of people of post-production age receiving pension benefits have led to the need to amend the law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. According to the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice only systemic solutions which the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło will introduce with your support, i.e. 500 PLN per child, reduction of unemployment, support for entrepreneurs to create new jobs, introduction of laws increasing revenue to the state budget and the possibility of working for young Poles and Poles in conjunction with the amended pension law, will allow for a comprehensive solution to the pension problem in Poland. President Andrzej Duda's decision to restore the previous retirement age is to restore faith, dignity to politicians' words that promises can also be kept after the elections. It is the realisation of the idea of democracy of the rule of law and the expression of respect for the will of the nation. The amount of retirement does not depend solely on the number of years of work, because then you would have to work in Poland for probably even longer than 67 years of age. The scandalous amount of low pensions in Poland today also depends in a significant, and even prevailing, on the size of salaries, premium periods, on economic growth in the country, rational management of public finances, integrity and professionalism of the rulers. Hence the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u41	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will address Mrs Izabel Leszczyn. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today we have only 4th session of the Sejm of this term, while during the first few meetings of the Sejm of the majority, together with the government, the Constitutional Tribunal was destroyed. You have begun to destabilize public finances. I am sorry to say that President Andrzej Duda is coming along with the majority of the parliament in the process of destroying you. The President embezzled the Constitution, and today the Act on Pensions joined in ruining the financial security of Poland. [[Applause]] It can't be that made irresponsible, populist electoral promises now determine everything you do. Well, you'd like to say, fortunately, that you didn't promise every Pole a house with a garden, because I think the Sejm would have to carry out this election promise with you now. Your election promises are more or less like that. Listening to the President's representative, I was wondering how it is possible that you did not get acquainted with the obtuse volumes of studies on pension systems in the world, in Europe and in Poland. How can you say in one speech that you want your pensions to be higher and at the same time say that this can be done differently than by extending your professional activity? I have said here several times that pensions depend on the dynamics of GDP, on economic development - always. It's a transfer from working to retired people, you can't do it any other way, these are facts. How do you imagine that fewer people will work - pensioners will be more, because they will retire early, we live longer, and fewer children are born - how do you want to pay for all this? Everything you do in subsequent resorts, from education through social policy, through defence, to foreign affairs, is dangerous for Poland. You say that an extension of the retirement age, i.e. raising the retirement age is not a solution to the problem. However, I propose that the representatives of the President be acquainted with the Polish pension system. For 16 years in Poland we have a defined contribution system. The question that the President's representative must answer is therefore: Does the President want to change the system of the defined contribution to the defined benefit scheme, or does he just want to reduce the pensions of Poles and Poles? There's no other way, no matter what you promised in the election campaign. There's just no other way. What does a defined contribution system mean? Because it may be worth understanding not only the applicants, but also all Members who will vote in favour of or against solutions in this project. Pension, according to this system, is calculated as an amount - in the numerator we have accumulated capital, and in the denominator we have a further average life expectancy since retirement expressed in months. So not only does it matter how long we have an internship - the longer, of course, the higher the capital - but also how many months we have to divide this capital. You can't work until you're 60, being a woman, and have a high pension at the same time. We're all worried and we're wondering, I think every responsible government should do this, how to change, how to increase the rate of replacement, which is the ratio of the last salary to retirement. You can really only do this by prolonging your professional activity and please believe in the statistics of the Central Statistical Office. According to them, we really live longer. I know the president doesn't really believe the statistics, he used to talk about it in London, but they don't lie. We live longer. You spoke to the Minister about good or bad health. Again, I encourage you to familiarize yourself with the research. The longer people stay in the labour market, the longer they are active, the longer they stay in society and form bonds and relationships, not only with their own family, but also with those from work, the healthier they are, because health is a link between psyche and our physicality. All the tests confirm that the longer we work, the longer we maintain good health. You say a man can decide for himself. This is false and false. There's such a thing as pushing people out of the labour market. By the time we get the right to retirement, we will be pushed out of this labour market. There's another important element. If a woman aged 60 retires, she is actually young, healthy and well, she is convinced that this small pension will be enough for her. In 10, 15 years, and such a woman will live For more than 20 years, for 10 or 15 years she won't be so healthy, she'll need more money, even for medication. We don't know that, we can't even imagine it, and you want to make people miserable. I'm sure the Civic Platform won't agree to that. Let us remember that the return to the previous retirement age is a pension lower for women of almost 70%. Each year of staying on the labour market is 10%. higher retirement. For men, of course. It's only 20%. This means that the woman who was born in 1974 - so this is the first year that will be covered by the raised retirement age, because we are introducing this for many, many years - if she was earning a national average salary, she would receive a pension of PLN 3504, while in the President's project this pension will be reduced by PLN 1500. The man will have a pension lower by PLN 600. Really, please answer the question: Do you want to change your pension system to a defined benefit? Then we can talk, but unfortunately Poland cannot afford to change this system. The long-term system, I repeat: in the long term, is to be financed by contributions, and you want to shorten the period of raising capital and extend the period of consumption of this capital. You can't really do that. By introducing this extremely difficult reform... But the Civic Platform is different from the PiS, because we are aware that we must not think with one term, that we must make difficult decisions, even those that citizens do not want, because we all want to be young, healthy, rich and may not work very much. It is natural, only not for that man becomes a politician, not for that he becomes president, to want to please society, but to take care of Poland, to care for Poles in the perspective of many years and many generations, not in the perspective of his unwise election promise. By introducing this difficult reform, we have calculated that in order to maintain the old retirement age and at the same time the amount of pensions, VAT would have to be increased by 8 percentage points, possibly by a retirement premium of 19.52%. Up to 30%. Answer the question: Are you sure you want to do this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u43	Thank you very much, Member. Thanking you for these substantive questions, however, I would like to draw your attention and ask you very warmly, both to the Member and to the next MPs, to avoid unnecessary words and emotions. Speaking of the fact that the President of the Republic has embezzled the Constitution, in my opinion, is absolutely... [[Mr. Marshal, we're envoys.]] Of course, my fellow Member, of course, but I think that... [[Game in the O.R.]] Please, allow me, ladies and gentlemen. This is my request. This is a very important debate, it concerns Poles and therefore let us discuss it. As if I thanked you for your substantive comments, not sharing them or not fully agreeing with their content. I would like to ask the High House and the honourable Members to avoid unnecessary emotions and unnecessary words in this discussion. Please, as the next one to speak... excuse me, Mrs.... [[On the board, Mr. Marshal.]] Excuse me, Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz Poselski Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In October's parliamentary elections, citizens were not only concerned with the exchange of power. We were all hoping for a new quality, we were hoping that the new government would be created by competent people whose horizons go beyond a four-year term, those who would not lack the courage to face major systemic challenges, even if it were to result in a decline in support in the polls. However, proposals for the pension system can be defined in one word - desertion. In the name of present popularity, the power camp decided to put our future at stake. Poland needs a stable pension system, which in the current conditions means a complete system change. In the meantime, the proposal of the rulers is everything, just not this. In order to talk seriously about the pension system, we must first realise its essence. We operate on the basis of a pay-as-you-go model, which means that current pensions are paid in full from contributions from people currently working. There is no accumulation of capital here, only a simple transfer. On the one hand, such a system is particularly sensitive to demographic changes, and on the other hand it contributes to them by socialising the benefits of its offspring. People are told that by paying contributions to ZUS, they save for future retirement. That's obviously not true. The sum of pensions paid will be equal to the sum of payments made to the system by our children. To clarify - not our children, just all our children. As a result of this socialisation, the pension system does not generate any positive incentives to have offspring. Everyone hopes that the children of their neighbors will be working for their old age. The problem is, the neighbors think exactly the same thing. The lack of the possibility of rational economic calculation under this socialist system makes the same system cut the branch on which it sits. Let's look at the facts now. Today, around 7 million people of post-production age have around 24 million people of working age. In 2025 we will have 1 million pensioners more than today. In the longer term, the situation is even more tragic. In 2060, with a retirement age of 67 years for men and women, we will have 10.5 million pensioners and 17.2 million people of working age. If we lower the retirement age to the previous level, this ratio will amount to 12.2 million to 15.5 million, which means that practically every working person will have one pensioner to maintain. The current pension system can achieve financial balance by moving three sliders: the first is the retirement age, telling us about the ratio of the number of people working for those taking a pension, the second is the replacement factor showing the amount of the future pension compared to the last salary, the third is the level of taxation for people of working age. Thus, in order to achieve a balance when reducing the retirement age to the previous level, we would have to reduce the replacement rate in the future at a limit of 20%, which means that for each 1000 zł net of the last salary we would have only 200 zł of pension. I don't have to convince anyone of the tragic consequences of this decision. On the other hand, if we wanted to keep our pensions at 40% the last salary, i.e. the amount indicated by international organisations as the minimum necessary, would have to raise the retirement age to about 72 years, for both men and women. In this way my generation will be brought into the role of slaves working to death only to ensure some balance of this inefficient system. Of course, the additional option you will have will be to increase the taxation of young people. If we do not change the whole system, we will remain within the dilemma defined by the three sliders. Your efforts to reduce the retirement age are therefore not a real reform of the system. In this way, you will not be able to fix the states and whether these actions are taken by the intoxicated vapors of socialism idealistic donkshots, or by the calculated, cold populists, the result will be the same - the crash of the system, the political, economic and social cataclysm. [[So they can eat you.]] You can ignore the laws of economics and objective reality, but you can be sure that the laws of economics will not ignore you, and the collision with reality will be painful for all of us. In order to minimise the problems arising from the transferability of the pension system, you offer us a family-friendly programme - 50 PLN per child, which is also transferable. [[Voice from the room: 500 PLN.]] 500 PLN per child. An attempt to save the redistribution model with an even greater amount of redistribution is similar to an attempt to treat alcoholism by giving the patient an even greater amount of alcohol. Besides, how are we supposed to trust people who can't do simple math calculations? The total annual cost of this programme has been estimated at PLN 22 billion, the problem is that the creators have clearly forgotten that the essence of pro-family programs is to increase childhood, so 22 billion PLN is the cost in current conditions, i.e. at point zero. The increase in childhood will in principle take place when families decide to have a second and another child, which in the proposed design of the program will lead to an explosion of costs. A 50% increase in children, which will provide us with generation replacements, could lead to a 100% increase in costs. The question whether the government has an additional 44 billion is still a rhetorical question. You must understand one thing, you are not able to solve Poland's problems for a simple reason: it is you who are the problem - a political class that is, in fact, a parasitic layer, which is fattening on the poverty of its own society. [[About you!]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] That's right. By constantly seeking to expand the scope of its own power, it reduces the freedom of citizens. You promise social security to your citizens, and you only provide tax increases. It is remarkable that the party that sets itself in contrast to communism and the necessary class struggles is giving us the foundation for the future generation struggle. You are already building the basis for a future radical tax increase. Remember, though, that whoever is sowing the storm will gather wrath. As a Kukiz club15, we propose to launch a nationwide debate on pension reform. In our view, this reform must be systemic and go beyond the current framework for discussion on this subject. [[What do you mean?]] If we don't make any systemic changes... [[Like what?]] ...then in 20 years' time in the Sejm we will discuss only whether the retirement age should be 71 or 72 years, regardless of who will be in this Sejm. Proposals that are the starting point for the public debate have already been formulated by NGOs. The KoLiber Association in its report on Demographics and the pension system proposed a completely new look at the pension system. The proposed solution would aim to internalise the benefits of having children. A more detailed solution has been proposed before the parliamentary elections by the Progressive Foundation in the programme of the new generation. The combination of a citizen's pension guaranteeing minimum social protection, increased savings and increased internalisation of the benefits of having children can respond to a pension crisis with which, without changes of a systemic nature, we will definitely be colliding. Two years ago, I attended a special meeting of the Senate Committee, where we presented our solution as the KoLiber Association. The current Member Izabela Leszczyn, then Deputy Minister of Finance, called for us not to be allowed to have a public debate. It was a speech full of shoes and arrogance. I appeal to the rulers: do not go this way. Taking up the subject of pension reform is our duty, and we need to create a system that will guarantee a certain minimum on the one hand and, on the other hand, will give citizens maximum freedom of choice, especially in terms of how to save. As far as demographic policy is concerned, stop believing in the miraculous power of public transfers. The mixing tea won't get any sweeter. Let's create conditions for people to start families together, reduce labour taxation. High and stable economic growth is the best pro-family policy. When this condition is met, the 18th-century call of the physiocrats - laissez faire - is best suited to the principle of procreation - let us act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u45	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, half a minute, really, you lied.]] [[Has the Member given up his salary?]] [[Voice from the room: Party subsidy!]] Right now, Member? In corrigendum mode, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u46	Thank you very much, Marshal. I wanted to say that you have said the wrong thing. I did not call for you not to be given the floor. I called on the chairman of the committee to try to invite organisations who know anything about it and are able to discuss it in a very difficult and serious debate on the pension system. 'Cause we're in parliament, not some party, auntie's name, where everyone can tell him what he's gonna get, even if he doesn't have a clue about his retirement system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u47	Ladies and gentlemen... [[I wanted to...]] Mr. President, I'm sorry. I'd just like to point out that you've spent practically all your time in your club. Mr. Krzysztof Sitarski, who had 10 seconds left, was also enrolled. I don't know if he's gonna want to use it. [[I think you're a marshal.]] [[He'll make it. He'll make it.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're welcome, then. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to the comments of a colleague of the Kukiz club15, I would like to add that if we want to change the principle of the current pension system, we have to take into account the period of contribution, which is the number of years actually worked. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It'll give you a sense of social justice. I propose that this be addressed to the committee. The Kukiz Club15 will vote back to the previous retirement age. At the same time, it proposes to launch a debate on pension reform, which, on the one hand, will ensure fairness and fairness and, on the other hand, will take into account the financial realities. [[Voice from the room: What's that? I don't understand.]] [[What is the position of the Kukiz club15? Are you for or against it?]] [[It's unclear!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u49	Mr. President, I'm sorry, it's time. Thank you kindly. Mr Ryszard Petru, the Modern Posel Club, will speak next. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u50	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To be honest, now I don't know what the position of the Kukiz club is anymore15. But I understand that the entire High House is surprised by these speeches. [[Room voice: 10 seconds.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to point out that, in such matters as pensions, you can't be on a math tank. Today, if you accept the average women's contribution period, ladies and gentlemen, that is 28 years. And a 60-year-old woman, on average, has 25 years of retirement. So if we make a pension for 28 years and we retire for 25 years, then, as you can see, this pension must necessarily be very similar to the contribution paid. In Poland the average premium at this point is almost 800 PLN. So, in fact, by reducing the retirement age for women to 60 years old, you are condemning - I look there, and I should look here, I understand - women on very low pensions, in the order of 900.1000 PLN. This is, unfortunately, a sad truth. Now the Minister says if women want to work longer, they can. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to get down on the ground, get out of these benches, get back to reality. Unfortunately, the reality is that employers often force women to retire at the age of 60. It's mass. Therefore, we say - we have beautiful words, phrases - that if they want, they will work, but the problem is that they may want to, and they will not be able to work and will be sentenced to very low pensions. Low pensions - this, ladies and gentlemen, means that for almost 1/4 or 1/5 women it will be at the minimum social level. What is more, Minister, unfortunately, is that when retirement age is 60 years old, and at one time protection was introduced five years before retirement, because employers usually do not want to hire people who are about to retire, it is again, saying that you want to do well, that you do wrong to women. Hence the problem - I agree with the previous speaker - that we do not exploit people at the age of 55. These are really young people who have professional experience. Why aren't we using them? Because when we have an early retirement age, they are being pushed out of the labour market. A lot of people just don't want to hire someone who has pension protection. There may be different situations in companies, including a crisis situation, and then there's no way, so to speak, to make a reduction. That's why you don't hire women at the age of 50. This causes the problem: 55, 55+. Ladies and gentlemen! If you are the President of the Republic, you must think of a long time. I would like us to take responsibility, not for what's going on here, but for 4 for 8 for 12 years, to be responsible for future generations. I remember that in the past, those who had nothing to pay for, promised early retirement, some benefits that couldn't be paid out of. I therefore resent the President for making an offer which, firstly, is very detrimental to women and, secondly, is very detrimental to future generations, because all these pensions will have to be paid out of increasing pension contributions. Unfortunately, with regard to the construction of pension benefits, it is simple It's like the construction of a cleaver. You have to put the money in to get it out. I agree: there is no money in the Social Security Office, Minister, there is no money. [[But it's not my fault, sir.]] There was money at OFE, but you took it. The only thing that matters is that the rule is that you book, how much money has been paid, and then how much money comes out. [[There's a ruling from the tribunal on how we're supposed to respect these judgments, so let's respect that.]] But I have an opinion that you've taken away. The ruling wasn't about whether you took it or not. You took it. You took me. All I wanted to say was... Again. These contributions are accounted for. Therefore, if we give the opportunity to retire early, we increase the burden of future generations and actually condemn Poland, Poles to very low pensions. I would like to say on behalf of the Modern Posel Club that we are asking for the rejection of this project at first reading, because it is bad for Poles, bad for future generations and very bad for women. You're actually reducing women's pensions by almost PLN 1,500. I'd like it to be said out loud. I would also like the president to say simply: Yes, I am giving you an early retirement age and I am reducing your pensions by PLN 1,500. This is a motion to reject at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u51	Thank you kindly. Within the time allowed to the Club Ms Joanna Augustynowska will take the floor. [[Tell me now.]] [[In corrigendum mode. Half a minute, may I?]] Mr President, there was no reference here in Mr Petru's speech to the Member. Please, Mrs Joanna Augustynowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill proposed by the President is about reducing the retirement age, which is what we are really doing back to the situation that was changed in 2012. But in this justification for the bill we will find an interesting statement in which is an explanation of what retirement age is. The retirement age is the limit of the age in which individuals are generally unable to work normally. That's exactly the record. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that as many as 97 Members of this term are unable to do their normal work. Let's move on. On 21 July, the Minister in an interview, which my previous speaker spoke about, spoke to the Polish Radio about the consequences of the introduction of an earlier retirement age. She said exactly this: Because we say there will be voluntaryity, we believe in the wisdom of men. Some of them aren't gonna retire, they're gonna work longer. This statement by the Minister shows that you are aware that the retirement age is being changed to the detriment of society, because, and contrario, you say that retirement is not a wise option. The bill itself contains arguments which confirm the Modern position that this change will not be financially beneficial either for the state budget or for pensioners themselves. Lowering the retirement age leads to an increase in expenditure on these benefits, and the rest period should not start too early, because then the cost of pension insurance would be too high. Lowering the retirement age will result in lower pensions for women and budget shortages, for which we do not really know where we will find the money. And then, pension funds are trying to find themselves by introducing full expropriation of civil law contracts or increasing pension insurance for entrepreneurs. I would like to remind you that more than 1 million citizens and their families and almost 2 million micro-entrepreneurs are expected to raise their pension contributions. This is a very heavy burden, and in the election campaign you said that we would reduce all of this so that it would be for society. Unfortunately, there is nothing to be deluded about - employers are probably not going to finance these increases, because physically they are just going to do it. No, no, no, no, no, no, Neither will the state budget have the means to contribute to this, and therefore it will be mainly the burden of workers, which is physically we will simply make less money. And the calculations are so specific. Assuming we make $4,000. gross zloty, that is slightly above the national average - high pension, will amount to around 3.5 thousand. Evil, that's all there is right now. On the other hand, after a reduction in the retirement age, after the amendment of the law will amount to PLN 2869 net for a man, and they are in a slightly better situation, while the pension of women from the amount of PLN 3456 that they would receive will fall to PLN 2004. This means that women, as a result of this amendment of the law, will lose around 1.5 thousand on these assumptions after the retirement age has been reduced. The evil of your pension. The project does not primarily take into account the situation of women who retire at the age of 60 and who have not raised their minimum pension contributions. And remember that group of women. In this situation, we as taxpayers will be forced to simply add to these pensions. Moreover, as we read in the justification of the project, the average life expectancy in good health is not prolonged. I see. Therefore, the proposal to reduce the retirement age due to the poor health of Poles. That's what we read in the explanatory memorandum. However, the question arises as to whether these measures are better spent on prevention, health care, promoting healthy lifestyles, fighting smog, or, however, on pensions for sick, 60-year-old seniors. Moreover, this law states that women should be given equal treatment. But in fact, maintaining a differentiated retirement age leads to discrimination against women in the labour market, which my previous speaker spoke about. I would also like to add that the judge of the Constitutional Court Teresa Liszcz and Prof. Łętowska, the former Ombudsman of civil rights, have serious doubts about the constitutionality of this bill, indicating it in two ways: acquisition [[♪ The bell ♪]] the right to a pension and the amount of the pension and the breach of the provision on equal treatment of both sexes with regard to the right to social security. In view of the above, like my previous speaker, I would like to point out that we will apply for the rejection of the project at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u53	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! I hope that today's debate will continue in committee, not as it did with the project of the Polish People's Party tabled at the very beginning of this term of office, which was conducted for 1.5 hours, about 1.5 hours in the High House. This project was about pensions. It's a shame these projects couldn't meet. It is a pity that the President had not sent the project to the Sejm before, because we saw him before the elections, he was in that term a project of the President addressed to the Sejm, and that we could not process these projects together. I'm talking about internship and retirement opportunities. This project of the Polish People's Party after a discussion in this room lasting a little longer than an hour was rejected - rejected at the request of the Modern. And that is what I can understand, because the liberal approach to pension matters of President Petru and his group has been known for years. It's been repeated today. But that's what the Platform and Kukiz voted against. 15... But I see that already at the Kukiz club15 this reflection took place, because today in the statement it was that it was the job placement that had to be based on pension solutions. It is a pity that this was not two weeks ago that your votes did not support the continuation of work on a much better project than the one presented today in the High House. There was also no support, despite the declaration, a pity on the part of the PiS. In your club speeches, you said it was worth continuing the discussion on the 40-year work experience project. Minister Zielenecki, for which I thank you very much, on behalf of the Minister, said that it was worth continuing to work on the issue of 40 years of internship and then what? And then there was abstention. With most of the PiS, this hold-up is throwing it in the trash, throwing it not in the freezer, but in the shredder. Why is this idea of 40 years of internship much better than just what the President's Office presents today? He gives freedom of choice and makes the right to retire conditional on the contributions collected. This certainly affects the level of pensions. This is going forwards, not backwards. This is to propose new solutions that give the opportunity to increase freedom of choice for women, men, insured people, all, regardless of the place of employment, not as presented in the previous debate. This is where Mr Petru focused mainly on farmers. That's not true. I'll say it again. This applies to all those who started their professional activities earlier, worked hard and paid their contributions. If they were professionally active, then they have the opportunity to retire. The Minister, presenting the bill today, forgot what she managed to implement in the 2012 amendment thanks to the efforts of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, our activity: these were partial pensions, which Poles today use. There were no changes for farmers to enter into force, Minister, in this bill. So there is nothing to reverse, because the retirement age for farmers, the previous one, is still valid: 55 years for women, 60 years for men. By the end of 2017, no changes had entered into force here, so there is nothing to reverse. As far as labour market activity is concerned, I would also like to point out that the activity of people over 55 years of age since 2008 when it was around 31 and 32% increased at this point to more than 42 and 43%. This activity has increased particularly in women. Ladies and gentlemen! This discussion on the pension system will probably continue for the entire term of office. We will not allow you to permanently throw away a proposal for 40 years internship, we will report this as an amendment to this law. This will be a credibility test, whether you want to go further and change this system, modernise this system, or give you greater freedom of choice. Will the honourable government and the High House want to give them the opportunity of hard-working craftsmen, locksmiths, mechanics, farmers, all those who have been doing these jobs since a very young age, to give them a chance to retire when they raise 40 years of internship? And here again I disagree with the Modern. You say it is not worth paying contributions from civil law contracts, that this limits the possibility of working in the labour market. No, what has entered into force since 1 January 2016, i.e. the contribution of civil law contracts, at least on the minimum wage, and the coincidence of civil law contracts, is a very good solution to strengthen the position of the worker in the labour market, also in the context of pension insurance, in the context of collecting contributions, because the value of the future pension depends on it. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of OFE came back and returned to Mr Petru's voice again. He said the money was taken, his money. Mr President, why didn't you take the money out of OFE before the changes that the Sejm, the previous House, made and take them home? Why didn't you find an ATM that paid off the money? Because there's no ATM. [[Applause]] [[May I? Correct...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u55	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Petru. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u56	Thank you, Marshal. Mr President, I did not say that I was against covering, I just wanted to say that I am against covering all contract contracts and work contracts. Let us note that if the artist writes an etude, it is a work, and I do not think that it is to be compounded. In Poland, however, the contract for the work and contract of the order are abused, which does not mean that the child needs to be poured out with a bath. Let me give you an example of how you can get the money out of OFE from the ATM.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u57	But, Mr. Chairman, this is to be a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u58	Just for a little while, because you say at the ATM... KNF may have proposed that the contribution to the OFE should be included in its own contribution in the case of a bank loan, and this is the way to take it out of the ATM. Thank you. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: But it doesn't work...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u59	Thank you. I would very much like to ask Members not to overuse the formula: in the procedure of correction. I ask for the floor of Mr Krystian Jarubas, because there is still time for the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u60	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, in addition to the statements of President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, I would like to refer to the proposal from the bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund presented by the President. Here, regarding the draft amendment to the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act, we do not see provisions on the possibility of retiring after a certain period of work, and this was supported by, among other things, a solution. trade unions.Solidarity and OPZZ. Ladies and gentlemen! We will not block further process on the project, as in the case of the bill on pensions presented by us worked by PiS and other groups, throwing the project into the shredder, as my predecessor said. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will propose an amendment to the proposed project concerning the introduction of retirement opportunities for people with at least 40 years' contribution period, work placement. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, people of hard work should be able to choose and individually decide on retirement after 40 years of contributions. The catalogue of hard work is not only limited to farmers, but there are many professions where people work hard physically, starting with apprenticeships at basic vocational schools. These people simply deserve it, which is why the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will seek it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u61	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Klawiter, a non-attached Member, also spoke. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I represent the Right of the Republic of Poland and I would like to make some comments, perhaps ordering. No one's saying it's not beneficial to work longer. The longer someone gets active, if they have health opportunities, the longer they're supposed to work, the better they're gonna live. Besides, no one. He doesn't say that if he works less, he'll get a higher pension. No one here promises that. Nor does anybody prejudice the need to discuss the pension system. This is an extremely complicated mechanism and it is necessary for such a discussion to begin for a long time. It must be a few years of discussion, a debate, which doesn't mean that... However, every Pole is a free man and a free man has the right to say that he would like to retire sooner or later. Let us not do in such a way a normal, average Pole, claiming that he will not have such, let's say to himself, his calculation. He's gonna have to know, of course, that by retiring early, he's gonna get less, but maybe that's what he wants. Everyone here has free will, and I would ask you to respect that. Therefore, through respect for an average Pole who would like to retire quickly, let us give him this opportunity and let him know that he will earn less. And that's not, all the parameters we're talking about needn't be in contradiction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u63	Thank you very much, sir. There are 30 parliamentarians to be asked at the moment. Therefore, I set the time for the question - 1.5 minutes. Please, Mr Adam Abramowicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, is the first to ask a question. I don't see your MP. I would therefore like to ask the floor of Mr Sławomir Piechota, the Civic Platform. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: There he is, he's coming.]] Mr Piechota, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! I think that the basic question that we are trying to leave out here in this debate, and which we have to make clear, is who and how much it will lose, because, of course, you can promise that without work people will live well, but it is such a level of fiction that they really cross the security line. Maybe we can tell the kids that if they wanted to go to school and if they didn't want to go to school, they shouldn't go to school. Will we accept the way society works? Is there any doubt in this Chamber that the welfare of people comes first from work? Prosperity and security, well-being of those who work, well-being of their families, well-being of entire communities. If there is no job, where is there to think about safety, where to think about prosperity? Work isn't... Here it is as if we are focusing solely on whether we have enough for pensions, but after all, only a working man keeps himself, does not have to count on help, on the kindness of others, only a working man himself is a consumer, pays taxes, pays health contributions and insurance premiums. If he stops working, he'll stop paying for it, and his inaction will be financed by other employees. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, let me just add - let me - a mechanism of apparent privilege that devastates the work of people with disabilities. There used to be such singers: show kindness, kindness disabled, shorter working time, extra leave, the right to a rehabilitation tournament. As we talk to many employers, we ask why you prefer to pay punishment for a rehabilitation fund rather than employ people with disabilities, many - of course, if you trust that you can afford such openness - he says: sir, shorter working time, extra leave, the obligation to grant relief for a rehabilitation tournament. How am I supposed to ensure my company's functioning if this man is still missing for some reason? Let us not go into such seeming favors that people will feel painfully after years, and we will have to retreat with pain. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u65	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Baszka, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! Three questions. Why didn't PiS politicians want to work on our project to retire after 40 years of work? Why was it not desirable for our and the presidential projects to be discussed together in committees to work together on good solutions for citizens? Secondly, do applicants know the actual financial impact you have set at 40 billion? Are these reliable calculations, or was there an error of calculation in the previous presidential project? You've got almost 90 billion. Thirdly, what are the sources of funding for the proposed solutions? Is it your only idea to increase the financial deficit of the Republic of Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u67	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the President's representatives what substantive reasons I would like to stress, the President's reasoning, proposing a return to the previous retirement age in his bill. Do economic, demographic, or other factors indicate this? Where are you going to get the pension money for future generations? Does it consider that the pension system will be completely inefficient? Is the lack of equalisation of the retirement age of men and women in line with the ruling of the Constitutional Court that you are attacking so badly? What will be the rate of replacement for women and what will be the rate of replacement for men? Wouldn't that be the values that Minister Isabella Leszczyn spoke of? Why, if it is as she said, will you not be courageous about this to all our citizens? Or are you already assuming that they're just not going to retire and benefit from social assistance? What situation will you eventually lead our country to make apparent populist movements? Where's the line? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u69	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Maria Margaret Janyska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The pension system is one of the most important conditions for labour market equilibrium. Therefore, I have a question for the applicants' representatives: Have you examined - and with what tools - how the reduction in the retirement age will affect the labour market? Especially since we already have the employee market clearly today. In this situation it is pure fiction and populism, because employers will probably ask employees to stay longer so that they do not benefit from the possibility of retirement, and it will be specific negotiations on the labour market. Will it be possible to benefit from pensions and work at the same time after reaching the retirement age according to the rules you are assuming? This is very important, the answer to this question, because this is a question of the sustainability of public finances, because employees working in public administration will also be a burden on public finances for work and, on the other hand, a burden on the Social Insurance Fund. And the last thing is pretty important, too. If you're lowering your retirement age, you're probably also referring to life expectancy, because life expectancy is a very important factor in determining your retirement age. Then do you think Poles live less? Because I remember having a discussion about how we were prolonging our retirement age. You said then that Poles would now have to work to the death. Therefore, I have a question: Will free medicines also be granted to people now [[♪ The bell ♪]] younger than 75 years old? 'Cause if it was a job to die at 67, then who did you prepare these free drugs for in your bill and program projects? For the afterlife? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u71	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Bożena Kaminska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Population ageing and low childhood have been seen as a threat to the labour market in Western Europe for more than 20 years. The resulting decline in labour resources threatens in the near future a serious shortage of workers and a breakdown of the pension system. Law and Justice in its programme announced a thorough review of the whole pension system, public debate and then a referendum with questions about the most important principles of this system, because it is about the existence and future of Poles. The project was launched on 30 November, the first reading took place on 2 December, and I am afraid that during this meeting we will conclude the debate on the subject of such important changes that affect the Polish crowd and their future. I have a question: Will these assurances, which were presented by the Law and Justice in the election campaign, be fulfilled and realized? And second question: Why was the criterion of working time - 40 years old - rejected as a criterion that allows retirement? Many Poles also such a variant [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's been accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u73	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club. [[The way you voted, let's skip this...]] [[Please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u74	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Removing pension reform from 3 years ago will have disastrous consequences for future pensioners. The fulfilment of electoral promises in an irresponsible way gives Poles an illusion that they will be able to work less, but none of you points out that it will be worthwhile for anyone. For example, a woman who earns a national average will get a pension of 36,5%. lower, which is about 840 PLN. Why isn't anyone talking about it? According to Eurostat's demographic forecast, the median age in 2060 will increase by 12 years. The average life expectancy is considerably longer, today there are about 3 people of working age per pensioner, and in 2050 it will be a little more than one person. Unfortunately, this law is part of the electoral programme of Law and Justice, but unfortunately it comes out of rational and responsible governance in line with taking care of future generations. You don't think, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of caring for people who will reach retirement age in a few decades, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but only in the perspective of short-term political interests. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister, referring to one of the statements - that the costs of implementing this law will be PLN 40 billion. I would very much ask you to identify the sources of funding for this project and, at the same time, to indicate the time horizon for which these 40 billion PLN were foreseen. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u75	Thank you, sir. High Izbo! I would like to inform you that the questions have been answered by other parliamentarians. For this reason, I ask those of you and your fellow Members who would like to join us in asking questions to do so, because I will close the list of those who have been enrolled in the questions before the next speech. Please, Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice have joined the floor as a follow-up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u76	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The President has granted his constituents the right and has submitted the bill. We wanted to thank you very much for this, Mr President, on behalf of those who particularly expect this. There are many examples of such people, especially those who have worked their entire lives in production and lost their health, and today they are forced to work beyond force. Anyone who deserves to do his job should be entitled to a decent pension. The proposed law contains the expected solution. The proposed amendments necessarily refer to existing law, which is extremely complicated. Shouldn't this right be simplified as much as possible in the future? Shouldn't the law have a simple and obvious effect on what and to whom and what obligations each person has, so that different interpretations of the law are not recognised? In the proposed law, the model of existing solutions is proposed e.g. in amendments 12 and 13. in the proposed wording of Article. 27 and 28 basic law to maintain two existing conditions, including, inter alia, that the insured person [[♪ The bell ♪]] born before 1 January 1949 shall be entitled to a pension if they reach the age of 60 or 65. It is known that they will all be 67 after 1 January 2016. Shouldn't the law be simplified in this case? And the other thing. The proposed law refers to a number of other laws which specify the retirement age. Shouldn't this age for all professions be set up and put into a single law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u77	Thank you very much, sir. However, I am very cordially asking my fellow Members to stick to the time limit. There are 34 Members already registered. Therefore, if there are no more notifications, I will close the list of those who have been put to the questions on this item on the agenda of today's sitting. I ask you to take the floor of Mr John Warecha, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Raising the retirement age by the PO-PSL coalition under Donald Tusk was a lack of justice. This was contrary to the expectations of society. 1,400 thousand have been ignored. signatures under a referendum request. Up to 85% Poles opposed the proposal to extend the retirement age to 67 years. According to data from the Central Statistical Office, a Pole, a man, lives on average 71 years today, so he could only benefit from a pension for 4 years. This law did not solve any of the problems of the labour market: demographic, economic or social problems. The jobs occupied by the less efficient 67-year-olds resulted in even greater emigration of young people. Extending the retirement age for women is also another blow to Polish families. Young Polish women who could give their children to their grandmothers and go to work could not do so. That would be another reason why Poles do not want to have any more children. It should be recalled that Prime Minister Donald Tusk will retire at 65 years of age and not 67 years of age, and that if he is elected for the next term of office, the term of office of President of Europe will be 80,000. PLN per month, which is 40 times the average pension in the country. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! [[♪ The bell ♪]] The bill presented by President Andrzej Duda is fair because it gives the right to early retirement and does not impose such an obligation. If a 60 - year - old woman and a 65 - year - old man find that the witness paid by the Social Security Office is unsatisfactory, they will be able to work longer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u79	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Bożena Szydłowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Analyzing the presidential project, I come to the conclusion that it is a matrix for Poles and Poles, for current pensioners and for those who will consciously or not benefit from these early retirements. I have a question. Did Mr. President and his servants ever wonder where the money would come from? Turning to reality, we already know today that 7 million pensioners will run out of money in the system, and the contributions that are currently being collected are no longer enough for that. Where does the government, of course, based on smart policy and full responsibility for public finances, taking care of Poles and Poles, which you often emphasized in the campaign, take measures for this purpose? Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u81	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Changes in the increase in retirement age were neither simple nor easy, but necessary in the name of responsibility for future generations. It's not easy to tell anyone that he's gonna work five or seven years longer, because no one in charge of responsible approaches to future generations would throw such increases just like that for his own will. It's a responsibility. Sometimes the bitter cure is the most effective. And such decisions stood before the predecessors of the state, these decisions you try to discredit from all means, saying that you can have more by working less. That's obviously not true. I don't believe you can't count, I really don't believe it. I also do not believe that you do not know what the consequences of such misguided decisions are. Then the question remains why you are doing this, for what real reasons. I know one - Mr. Marshal also - President of one of the cities, who by one resolution in the end of the 90s eliminated all resolutions of previous councils, predecessors. Do you really want to destroy every piece of work, the common work of many governments in the 25th or already 26th anniversary? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that the only reason for the change? Because other rational ones are hard to see. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u83	I ask for the floor of Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you two questions, but first, maybe one reflection. I see that in this room in all groups and in all statements there is concern about how this pension system will look. I don't think that this one law that deals with a particular issue will solve things for decades. We are facing such problems and it might be worthwhile to start a proper debate at a later stage on the functioning and financing possibilities of the social security system. Now, let me get to the questions. I would like to ask if the work on the presidential bill also took into account the consequences of the widespread use of trash contracts, not covered, in Poland and on the highest scale in the European Union. Have they been taken into account for the amount of subsequent benefits and for the welfare of the Social Insurance Fund, to which employers' organisations in the Tripartite Commission have repeatedly pointed out to the previous government? Unfortunately, these requests were rejected and to a very small extent [[♪ The bell ♪]] recently taken into account. One more question. I would like to ask you about the legal protection of pre-retirement employment, especially because of pushing people employed in entities financed by the state budget outside the labour market. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u85	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Many places in both President Andrzej Duda's campaign, as well as in PiS's autumn parliamentary campaign, were responsible for creating good conditions for the operation of small businesses, small entrepreneurs. Today, many of them are concerned about the shape of the legal acts they have created, among others. an act on which we proceed that there is little that there will be no better conditions for them, and many additional burdens will be introduced. I would like to ask: Is it in fact the intention of the President, who put forward this piece of legislation on which we are proceeding, to increase the burden on small businesses? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u87	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There was never a limit and no choice in Poland if someone wanted to work longer in retirement. Nevertheless, most Poles retire on the day they acquire pension rights. It's usually not an employee, but the employer decides when the employee retires. This is due to the fact that such an employee is often more expensive, sometimes less efficient, sometimes you can just find a young man behind the lowest national one. If there is a need to reduce employment, for example because we do not have one year old six-year-olds, seven-year-olds in primary school, they will first lose 60+ teachers after this law, because they will not have a protective age at this point. The protective age is four years before the age of 60 and ends when the pension is acquired. Let us remind you, pension depends on two factors. One of these factors is the amount of contributions we collect that are related to our working time. The second factor is the so-called. actuarial factor. The actuarial factor is the estimated life expectancy for retirement. Women live longer and therefore spend more time retired, so their pensions are also lower due to this actuarial factor. This means that 40% the current 40-year-old or younger women will have this pension of 1/5 of the national average. This means the amount, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which isn't enough to survive. My question: What does the President intend to do to prevent poverty from rising among future pensioners? Do we anticipate any special social assistance measures? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u89	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have three questions and I'll go straight to their task, no comment. Firstly, assuming that the new law will enter into force in 2016, this will mean that the right to a pension will be obtained by around 150,000. persons. How's our budget or is our ZUS gonna be prepared for this? Another question. The amount of retirement depends on the accumulated capital and on the expected life expectancy of retirement, so it sounded today in the statements. I have a question: Is it true that, as a result of this reform, women's pensions may be twice as low as men's pensions? How do we deal with our feelings, our opinions, the role of a woman in our social life, in our community, in our consciousness? Next question, third question. There is no reference to the premium period in the pension age reduction project. Mr. President skipped that line, among other things. combination of age and duration of the contribution period [[♪ The bell ♪]] proposed the NSZZ.Solidarity and the Polish People's Party also submitted a project to which we would like to return. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u91	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzyk... Kasprzak, I'm sorry, Polish People's Party. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u92	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is a pity that Minister Rafalska is not here, because she has always shown here how low the level of pension benefits is. Today's debate shows that these benefits will continue to fall. I have a question, Minister, if that's true because you have to tell the whole truth, not just half-truths... How much will the pension benefit fall? Is it really going to be a 70% drop in women? ? It would be a drama for women. It's a pity we're not seriously discussing the pension system today. It's just the transition we're making. What we are talking about today, such a reduction, a reduction in the retirement age, fits with the previous system. It was possible there and it translated in a simple and clear way. Today we're in a different retirement system. Here's my question. What does the Social Insurance Fund look like today? How much do you have to pay for it every year? What will it look like in the new pension system? Of course, changes are needed because life brings changes. We should take advantage of these experiences that we have after this increased retirement age, to meet expectations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] employees, give freedom to retire, what we have proposed. This is the best solution that solves all the problems. I have a question. Did the Ministry take these proposals into account? I think they're the most accurate ones. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u93	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mr Tomasz Szymanski, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am also surprised that there is no Minister, but I am even more surprised that there is no Minister of Finance who will in fact have to drink foam from this beer, bearing in mind that he, as the chief accountant of the state budget, will have to deal with the problem of securing the resources for your planned reform. High Izbo! The president in his project, and above all in his explanatory statement, focuses solely on the choice of early retirement. I don't know if the minister knows, but the data says it's 10%. persons who have the right and the right to early retirement intend to work longer. The rest is 90%. He's leaving on that day for a well-deserved pension. [[But it's up to her to decide. Alone.]] There is no justification for this, High Izbo, any concrete but above all reliable data on the actual burden on the state budget and, above all, how much citizens will lose, what the actual amount of pension benefits will be. Most economists are clear: pensions will be drastically low, and I am afraid, Mr President, Minister, that you are actually funding Poles from my generation of poverty, poverty and poverty. But going to the question. The rate of substitution at present, i.e. the ratio of pension to last salary, is 62%. Tell me, Minister: What will the replacement rate be in 2040? And there's another line. During the discussion there was a question of constitutionality of the law. Me too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to raise this issue. [[What?]] Art. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 requires equal treatment of both sexes as regards the right to social security. How does this apply to the President's project, which differentiates the level of insurance or social security for women and men, claiming that women - and this is in the justification written - should care for seniors and raise grandchildren? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u95	Thank you, sir. Allow me only to reassure both Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak and Mr Tomasz Szymański. Mr Marcin Zielenecki, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, listens to your questions and questions. So that all your questions are also addressed to government representatives. I would like to ask the floor of Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We all know that the planned pension reform promised by the president during the election campaign will be costly. There is information from the Ministry of Finance that in order to cover the increased expenditure, it is proposed to fully cover contract contracts, works contracts and business income. These are generally good solutions in the context of garbage contracts. On the other hand, self-employed people would have to pay contributions instead of a lump sum from full income, and that would mean an increase in labour costs. [[It was demented.]] However, higher contributions to the Social Security Office are in the longer term likely to increase the shadow economy in the labour market, concealing employment and income. This can have irreversible consequences for our economy, for entrepreneurs, for workers, for the unemployed, for the entire labour market. I have a question: What tools will the government prepare to respond adequately to such future negative effects on the labour market? Because you're just gonna give it to us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u97	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Marzena Okłę-Drewnowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Unfortunately, today, in the 8th term of the Sejm, populism dominates common sense and responsibility. It is nice to say to Poles: you will work less, but it is better to keep quiet about their pension, and in the case of women we know that it will be particularly low, as has been mentioned in this House. After all, the President's proposal is cruelly true that every year less work is 10%. less pension, for women by up to about 70%. If this pension is lower than the lowest provision in force, it will have to be paid to it, in accordance with the Constitution, unless this constitution has a different wording. And that will mean that our children and our grandchildren will have to pay for these lowest pensions. So I have such a simple question: so humanly or not it is a pity for those future generations, our children, our grandchildren, to make this immediate, very political, populist decision, to burden them for the future, so that they pay for our pensions, for our pensions? Is this responsible? Unfortunately, I'm afraid not. But for you, what is important here and now is political and populist. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u99	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The increase in the retirement age carried out by the Sejm of the previous term of office provided for a gradual increase by 2040. And so it was a slower rate of increasing age than demographic trends would suggest. In the meantime, you want to change that. I have therefore a question: Have you counted the effects by 2040? It follows to me from the calculation for 2040 that pensions themselves will have to increase by PLN 40 billion and the contributions paid will decrease by at least PLN 10 billion, i.e. in 2040 there will be a hole of more than 50 billion in one year, as there will be 2.5 million more pensioners and 2.5 million less people paying contributions. Secondly, have you counted how many people, especially women, will not be able to raise even for their minimum pension? Therefore, we will have to pay extra taxes. And so the Social Security Office is currently on a deficit, you have to pay from other different sources, because contributions are not enough, as this deficit has grown rapidly. Have you considered that the average life expectancy is increasing all the time? Now women aged 60 live 24 years longer. In 2040 they will live 27 years longer. Does the State take into account the effects of the fact that the average continuation of life [[♪ The bell ♪]] is extending, or are you hoping that the average life expectancy in Poland will be falling and therefore the system will be balanced? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u101	Thank you. Mr Michał Wójcik, Mr Law and Justice will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is one of the most important debates in this term of office. One of the Members of the Platform asked why we were doing this. The answer is simple. Because we listen to the voice of the nation, because we don't turn our backs to the nation, just like you do. You did it a few years ago. And that's the brutal truth. [[Don't tell me it's not true.]] I listened to what Mr Richard Petru said. He did an economic lecture. Glory be to you that you are not President of Poland, but you are Andrzej Duda, because if you were President of Poland, we would work not until 67 years old, only up to 73 years old or up to 80 years old. That's what I figured out, that's what I learned from his lecture. [[Voice from the room: That's a bad conclusion.]] I would like to ask you two questions that need to come out of this place. Minister, is it true that the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party in the previous term raised the retirement age of women by 7 years, mostly in Europe, drastically? [[Until 2040.]] I am not asking the Member. [[You ask, I answer.]] Is there any country where women's retirement age has been raised so much? And case number two. What is the average age of life in Poland? Are these 73 years old? If so, if a man were to accept the platform's proposal, how long would he have lived on average? Six years. [[Voice from the room: illiterate.]] In France, how much? 22 years old. And that's the brutal truth. I want to end by saying that the Platform leaves a trashed system actually, and economic and financial. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're leaving us with debt. [[And you will magnify it by shortening the retirement age.]] It's worth it for the retirees to know. Quality of life of pensioners: 62nd place in 100 countries. UN report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u103	Thank you very much. I would very much like to ask Mrs Magdalena Kochan to allow for a peaceful task of the questions to be asked by all the speakers. [[Yes, sir, Marshal, yes, sir.]] Please take the floor of Mr Janusz Śniadek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I'll admit, today I didn't hear anything new from the representatives of the Civic Platform. Still these arrogant instruction that it is for the sake of Poles, for the sake of Poland, that it is in the interests of the country. On the other hand, they are still completely silent, while at the same time accusing half-truths of those proposing this change, such arguments. And here's the appeal, attention, to all those who refer to their math skills. Please take advantage of these talents and let's make a simple balance, a balance of hands to work in the labour market. Extending the professional activity of Poles by about 4 years - I already ignore the issue of reducing the training age - for women, for men will cause that for 4 year olds in this labour market balance... If the number of jobs employed does not increase significantly, the overall balance sheet will show that this is a judgment for four years of Polish youth. Graduate graduates - four years old - are doomed to emigrate or unemployment. [[This is ridiculous.]] Also. Yeah, it's a simple bill. [[It's absurd.]] On the other side of these people of pre-retirement age, and here is one of the main sources of savings for the budget, there are people losing their jobs before reaching retirement age not because of their own fault, whether they have protection or not, who are losing their jobs, who are doomed to continue, [[♪ The bell ♪]] waiting for this retirement age without means to live. This is your main savings, and this is what your concern for the welfare of Poles is. The retirement age absolutely needs to be reduced, and let it remain the good will and choice of those who will decide whether they prefer a lower benefit, but now, if they have the opportunity, they will work longer, in order to actually work on this slightly higher benefit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u105	Thank you. I ask for the floor of Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Let us remember that we raise the retirement age, in accordance with the Act adopted by the previous Sejm, by 2040 and human life is also increasing, and in 2040 we will all live longer. Mr. Marshal! Since it is worth repeating wise things, let me repeat Mr Sławek Piechota's words: The welfare of people and entire nations comes from work. There's no way to introduce prosperity by law. It can't even be done by a resolution. Even if there were 460 PiS Members in the Sejm and you already had the largest democratic mandate that you so like to invoke, you will not be able to introduce prosperity by the resolution of the Sejm. It's just impossible. [[We can do this.]] [[You're gonna be sneaky.]] For now, you are destroying the chances of prosperity of Poland and Poles in the future. I would like to ask you about the sources of funding for the representatives of the President, because the cost of this change for the public finance sector by 2023 is PLN 100 billion. He came here in the meantime, I believe, Minister Shamacha, so if the Minister doesn't know how to answer this question herself, then I ask you very much to answer this question in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u107	Please take the floor of Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz'15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Petru did not understand what our position was, perhaps because we were running out of time. I've got an opportunity to explain, and I'm gonna ask you a question by the way. We believe that there is nothing to prevent further discussion on pension reform, which will ensure honesty and justice on the one hand and, on the other hand, take account of the financial reality, taking place on the committee. The Civic Platform, together with the PSL, increased the retirement age without consulting the citizens and, moreover, did not listen to the voice of non-governmental organisations and did not allow them to be discussed. That is why we will vote in favour of restoring the exit status. At this point, we would also like to remind you that the President in the campaign promised to issue a referendum on the retirement age. We would like to ask the representative of the President of the Republic of Poland whether he maintains this position, whether at least a referendum or some broader consultation with the public - not only about the increased age, but also, above all, about the whole pension system - will be conducted, whether NGOs that have a lot to say and offer will also be allowed to discuss, unlike the situation that has taken place over the last 8 years when they have not been allowed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u109	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum of the law states, and it also appears in the Members' opinions, that earlier retirement age will reduce youth unemployment, that these older people will leave, younger ones will take their place. In the meantime, we're counting. All available economic research, I will quote: the Polish Institute of Structural Research, the German Institute for Labour Research, the National Office for Economic Research, show unambiguously that such dependence does not occur that these younger people will not replace older people who will retire on the workplace. [[That's not what your friend said.]] Therefore, this justification is not effective. I would therefore like to ask why, in opinions, why there are circular opinions that have nothing to do with reality in the statement of reasons for the President's bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u111	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions. [[Voice from the room: Briefly.]] The first question is simple: Who will bear the cost of this change? That's not really what you're talking about. If the president doesn't know who's gonna pay those costs, I'll remind him. There are three such points: first of all, they will be borne by pensioners themselves, because the average pension will be significantly lower, for women, e.g. women like me, at my age, hungry at all, secondly, the state budget, and thirdly, all working and entrepreneurs. So I urge my question, I would like to answer in writing who will bear the costs of this change. And one more thing came to mind now, as I listened to your statements and statements here. Poles really want flexibility at work, and the project presented by the president makes age such a rigid border. What happens if somebody who's retired wants to work longer? After all, whether or not he can continue this work will depend on his employer. What about that variant? Did President Andrzej Duda ever think of that? I see I still have some time. Question three and fourth: Wasn't it worth thinking about how to improve health and flexibility and improve the competences of retired people? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u113	Thank you. Mr Marek Matuszewski, Platform, Sorry, Law and Justice, will speak. [[First transfer, Marshal, do not be afraid.]] [[You won't take the brand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u114	Mr. Marshal, don't be wrong here, because I...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u115	Proceed with the questioning, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u116	Minister! At first, I would like to say the so-called. modern, because they're so modern here, that... [[So-called...]] Well, folks, it was 62 years old in France, and right now the retirement age is 60 years old. So I think we need to follow the example of such countries in the European Union. [[Middle Ages.]] [[The right hand rules us.]] High Izbo! We know very well that in Poland many young people, many young families, men after 28 years of age, 30 years of age, are unemployed. Women, wives of these men, don't have a job. [[Then what's the PiS doing? How's he in charge?]] So this is due to the Civic Platform because you destroyed this country. [[Lowest unemployment, low unemployment.]] Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask you to...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u117	Mr President, you will have the opportunity to ask a question in a moment, please do not disturb me. [[Excuse me, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u118	And therefore, those people who retire at the age of 60, these ladies, not at the age of 67, will fire jobs for these young spouses. In these young families there will be joy, because work is the weight of gold after the governments of the Civic Platform. That's one thing. [[Lowest unemployment, lowest in 26 years.]] These young people, the honourable Member, will also work for the retirement pensions of these older people. Finally, the question to the Minister: How much will the expenditure on unemployment benefits, invalidity pensions, pre-retirement benefits, sub-retirement benefits, partial pensions and teachers' benefits be reduced? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u119	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Waldemar Andzel will speak, certainly the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The current retirement age was established by the PO-PSL government by the Act of 11 May 2012 amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, under which women and men were forced to work until 67 years of age, i.e. in many cases it is a job to die. The bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda assumes a return to the previously existing system of retirement, i.e. at the age of 60 for women and 65 for men. The regulations introduced by the PO-PSL government were harmful and met with a great dissatisfaction of society. This was expressed by the citizens' signatures under the request for a referendum on the retirement age, which had been ignored by the authorities at that time. Let me remind you that these signatures were almost 2.5 million. The subject of the referendum returned during the presidential campaign, but the governing camp again refused to speak to citizens on this important issue. Law and Justice have been opting since the beginning of the pension reform to abide by previous rules. Now it is possible to implement a reform that will be pro-social and for which millions of Poles are waiting. I have a question for the government. Is it considered to introduce or support the possibility of retirement for women who have a 35-year contribution period, regardless of their age and the possibility of retirement for men irrespective of their age, if you are 40-year-old contributions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I have a question for the opposition. Will the Po and Modern stop scaring Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u121	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! However, I think that, with such laws, we should primarily consider the long-term effects. What, on the other hand, do we see in the bill we are discussing today? The financial impact is estimated only until 2019, i.e. in the perspective of really one parliamentary term. I understand that you can conduct a policy on the principle: after us even the flood, no matter what happens, somehow it will be. But I would like to know the calculations, what are the consequences of these solutions that the President is proposing after 2019, especially since such estimates were presented. That's a question for the Ministry of Finance. By 2023 these costs amounted to almost PLN 100 billion. Besides, as I recall, such calculations appeared in the previous draft law submitted by the President in this regard, which was filed in September, still in the last term, where these famous accounting errors appeared. So a hot request to the president's representatives to present comprehensive, comprehensive, long-term calculations that go a little further than the end of the term of law and justice, because really after PiS there will also be life in Poland, at least that's what we hope. Thank you very much. [[We'll see.]] [[Oh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u123	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jakub Rutnicki, without a doubt the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr PiS asked the Civic Platform when he would stop scaring Poles. The Civic Platform, sir, does not scare Poles. Really, for the last few weeks of PiS, you are absolute world champions when it comes to scaring Poles, because indeed Poles are scared of what you do. But I'd like to ask you some questions about... [[About an hour. 13 on Nowogrodzka!]] Counselor, Mr. Prosecutor Piotrowicz, I understand, will lead the Law and Justice march on 13 December to strengthen democracy.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u125	Please, sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u126	That will indeed be significant. [[We're gonna be okay without a suggestion.]] If I could, I'd ask you a few questions. I have a question for the representatives of the President, because there has indeed been a lot of talk about the benefits of reducing the retirement age. Whether the President's Office, if this law enters into force, also provides for a broad but reliable information campaign informing Poles about the real consequences of this solution, i.e. pensions for women lower - about 70% , and for men - 20% ? I think it's worth telling the Poles. I would also like to ask - you are the Minister of Finance, there has been - what is the possibility of financing these changes. Is this an increase in the deficit and going into the Greek option, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this possibly an increase in taxes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u127	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I still hope that the Modern will withdraw its proposal and join the debate on a very important social and economic problem. This is not the way to discuss these particular problems, it is not the way to withdraw from the discussion. I think you're gonna change your mind. You still have a chance. After all, pensions are a social problem and at the same time an economic problem, worth a really good discussion, and this discussion was not held three years ago. Without any expertise, you came to the Sejm with an extension of the retirement age project when the trade unionists were on strike at the Sejm, chained themselves and wanted to discuss, they wanted this discussion, which we have an opportunity to refer to today in committees, taking into account, of course, the various arguments of different parties. Let's give ourselves the chance to be credible in social and pension matters as the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, to the Platform and to the PSL one, maybe two questions. Did you notice that during your governments there was the greatest emigration? [[The biggest one was...]] In the last eight years, young people from Poland have fled behind your governments. [[That's not true!]] [[That's a lie! In your reign, she was the greatest.]] Have you noticed that the wages for eight years, the wages for your governments haven't increased as you say? [[That's not true either!]] They didn't grow. And you have to tie the pay system to the pension system. And what else happened? There was enormous unemployment, you destroyed the Polish economic system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's where you didn't get your support in the next election. Stop living your delusions and get involved in a normal discussion because it's worth it, it's worth it, it's a pension because it's a merit and you can't look at it as a state, just as an economic account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The greatest emigration was in your time - according to the statistical yearbook.]] [[Correct, Marshal.]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u129	Right here? Please, in corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u130	Thank you, Marshal. I'm just going to say that there's no way a woman at the age of 60 can be offered a high wage, that is, a high pension. That is why I believe that this project must be rejected at first reading, because it is bad. [[Then it needs to be corrected.]] There's no way the construction of the cava is any easier. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's where you're wrong.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Club Law and Justice, has the floor. Hello.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Politics is the kind of person who should be credible. Reliability is very important whether it is the President, whether it is a Member, whether it is a Minister or a self-governmentman. Going to the elections, each of us makes a proposal, maybe it's promises, some say, promises unfulfilled. On the other hand, if someone wants to fulfill these promises, I think it is a certain element of credibility. First question to the Minister: Is this bill an element? Did the President want and want to do what he was talking about in society? Because society has made it clear that it wants to reduce the retirement age. This is the first case. The second thing, very important, very important, is voluntary. It's not forcing someone to retire early. There are various professions in which it turns out that someone who is 60 years old, 62 years old, is not able to perform certain duties and work well. This is to address those who cannot properly carry out their duty to work. The question to the Minister: Is it really voluntary, or is it, as some people want to say, an obligation to throw someone out of work? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more thing, the problem of destabilization, which has been mentioned so many times, that it will ruin the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking especially to the people of the Civic Platform, what was the public debt when you held power and what debt did you leave behind? The public debt has been doubled. How dare you talk about debt and the destabilisation of public finances? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u133	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[Less than other European countries, really.]] [[The Member is a particular pest...]] Mr President, please do not discuss this in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u134	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The temperature of this discussion is actually rising and I am trying very hard to understand the reasons on which you base your reasoning. It's very difficult to understand, because if you're not basing them on facts, then what is it? If one of my previous speakers, I think he left right now, I don't see him in the O.R. anymore, he says the highest level... Excuse me, the Member is here. The highest level of emigration, sir, according to statistics was in 2005-2007. We've raised the lowest salary by almost 100%. Earnings in Poland have increased and the economy is better. If you don't see these facts, why are you trying to explain to people that you can afford to lower your retirement age? Your logic is very difficult to understand. You are not helping absolutely in your statements. I quote in favour of 300 policy today's statement by Minister Kowalczyk: "If someone retires at the age of 60, then his average life expectancy will be 5, 6 or 7 years longer than originally planned. There's no such difference today. But that's the way it's gonna be. Well, it's gonna be less proportional, because he's gonna be taking more pension for months. The editorial board reserves that this is a literal statement. For God the Father, I cannot comprehend it. Just answer one simple question, Minister, I'm asking you very much. How do you explain what and where the truth is here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] If women and men work less, they will most likely benefit from the social assistance system, because if not, how can you give more money for shorter work? Explain that to me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u135	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Adam Abramowicz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Platform - PO and PSL - breaking the principle of inviolability of contracts, increased the retirement age for men and women, without consulting the public at all, rejecting the draft referendum law signed by millions of Poles on this matter. Today you teach everyone that you are smarter than Poles, smarter than society. You know what's best for society, and you know what's best for modern society. Ladies and gentlemen, Poles know what is good for them. The President's flagship call for an election campaign, a reduction in the retirement age, and our main demand, Law and Justice, led us to win the elections and we won the elections in such a way that we have a majority in the High House. And that gives us a card to make these changes. [[Yes, sir.]] And the modern one, who is trying to show how smart she is, in today's debate, shows that even logical evidence cannot be carried out. One time he says that at the age of 60, women will be retired by employers, and in a moment he leaves and says that this will not be supplemented in the labour market by young people. So who's gonna take the jobs of those who are sent away for forced retirement? And the third thing: the state's unique cynicism is directed by the state. There are older people in Poland who lose their jobs [[♪ The bell ♪]] Before retirement, before protective age, they become destitute. In poverty. They're not able to get to the retirement age you're proposing, they're just using welfare benefits. Are you going to tell us about them here today? Will you tell the Poles? No. You use demagogy and scaring Poles. Thank you, Mr President, for this initiative. We're gonna make these changes. Polish society in the elections gave us legitimacy to this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u137	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! As a person who over the past many years has dealt with, among other things, the elderly and families, where there were older people, I have often encountered such a situation that women or loved ones in the family have decided to retire at the age of 60 or later in a situation where they have decided to take care of their loved ones. I would like to ask: Have such studies or calculations been carried out, as long as the costs of institutional care increase? Ladies and gentlemen, today about 1.5% people of very advanced age, over the age of 80, benefit from this care, but in a situation where close people, women of 60 years of age and today have a chance to retire and take direct care of their mother, their father and a close person, they very often choose to do so because institutional care is extremely expensive, i.e. from 1800 to 3500, or even 4,000. [[♪ The bell ♪]] No one's talking about the fact that when women get older by seven years, you have to create Huge institutional care: DPS, palliative care. Very often these women decide to take care of their grandchildren. It would be worth bending over and showing how much it will cost our society. And I think this law gives a chance for a woman or someone close to you to decide whether they want to retire or if they want to take advantage of their activities at the age of 60, such as taking care of their loved ones: their mother, their father, or their family. And to President Petru. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. You've become a construction specialist. You really don't have to show off every time you say it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u139	Thank you very much. The floor is now voiced by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Marcin Zieleniewski, sorry, Zieleniecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that there is no official position of the Council of Ministers in the legislative procedure, so that I have the honour to present to you the position of Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. I would like to start by saying that today's discussion concerns one of the social risks covered by the social security system, namely the risk of reaching the retirement age. This is a risk that is characterised by a specific specificity against others. This specificity is, among other things, that it is a risk of a conventional, contractual nature, right. We are setting this age limit, you can say, conventionally. We do not individualize this risk, we do not individually assess each insured person for whether or not he has been affected by the risk of old age, right. On the other hand, we try to apply certain average standards in a way. This conventionality, the contractuality of the risk of reaching retirement age does not mean that we are free to determine this level of retirement age. It can be said that when determining the retirement age, we should be guided by a number of factors, determinants. And the draft amendment to the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act, presented by President Andrzej Duda, contains such criteria, indicates such criteria. These criteria are a factor of social security, a factor that refers, one can say, to an average phenomenon, to an age in which Poles, on average, are affected by pension risk. It also refers to the conditions of service, that is to say, a condition which requires a certain proportionality between the period of work and the period of collection of the benefit. It also refers to the employment conditions, the labour market situation, as well as to the factors relating to the costs of the pension system, in particular the amount of the income and expenditure of the fund. I would like to say that we view this project as taking into account the current situation of people who are approaching the retirement age. And I would like to present to you, the High House a few, in my opinion, quite eloquent data which, without getting into the details, illustrate the nature of the problem. As far as security is concerned, the expected life expectancy of Poles aged 50 years is lower than the EU average: for women, almost 2 years, for men, by more than 3 years. If we look at data on the average life expectancy in good health - I am based on Eurostat data - for 50-year-old women in Poland the average life expectancy in health is 5.5 years shorter than the average life expectancy in the health of women in the European Union. As far as men are concerned, the average life expectancy for health is 6 years shorter than the average for men in other Member States of the European Union. I would also like to point out in this context that Poland is a party to International Labour Organisation Convention No 102 on minimum social security standards. We're also bound by art. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 of this Convention, which sets a maximum retirement age limit of 65 years, giving the possibility to cross that limit only in a situation where nationals of the Member State of the International Labour Organisation generally retain their ability to work. In Poland, this condition is not met. The second condition, the condition of service, refers to the average period of insurance of persons taking pensions. At the end of 2014, the average duration of the insurance period was 34.5 years. I stress, it's about people taking pensions. For men, this period was longer, almost 37 years old... Excuse me for women was 32.8 years, for men - 36.9, the average is 34 years and 6 months. Comparison of life expectancy - i.e. we are talking about this second element of proportion, not the duration of the insurance period, but the length of the benefit period. If we compare the average continuation of life of people aged 60 and 65 in the period immediately prior to the entry into force of the Law of 11 May 2012 increasing the retirement age and comparing this parameter with the parameter of today, it turns out that - and this is information widely known - actually Poles live longer. The expected continuation of life of Poles during this period, during these 3 years, has been extended by about 6 months, while if we look at the rate of increase in the retirement age, which was proposed to us in the aforementioned Act of 11 May 2012 increasing the retirement age, we will notice that during the same period the retirement age was increased by 10 months. So this increase in life expectancy, the rate of increase in the average life expectancy of people aged 60 and 65, is much lower than the rate of increasing the retirement age proposed in the Act. If we look at the employment rates of people of pre-retirement age in Poland and compare them with indicators in other countries of the European Union, we will notice that in the group of people aged 50 to 54 years the average employment rate is about 4% lower than the EU average, while if we look at people aged 55 to 59 years, i.e. in the period immediately preceding the retirement age, we are working by around 8,5%. less than the EU average. The conclusion is therefore that the Polish labour market is not prepared for such a significant increase in the retirement age as was the case in the Act of 11 May 2012. The problem is not to retire at the time of retirement, but to ensure that the insured person is able to work until the retirement age. The improvement in the labour market situation for those who are approaching retirement age is therefore a fundamental condition here. As regards the fourth element, the cost element, it can be said that the financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund translates so-called. the actual retirement age. This actual retirement age earlier, in previous years, deviated from the so-called. formal or basic retirement age as enshrined in the Act. It can be said that this age - 60 years for women, 65 years for men - has been in force for many years in Poland, but in no way has it translated into the actual average age of retirement. Here I will only quote the data on the period preceding the pension reform started in 1999. At the retirement age of 60 for women and 65 for men, the actual retirement age in 1998 was 54,7 for women and 58.7 for men. In the first half of 2015, the retirement age of men, this actual retirement age, was 63.5 years and for women it was exactly 60 years old. It can be said that there has been an increase in the actual retirement age of about 5 years in the case of both sexes insured. This effect, notice the state, was achieved not by increasing the basic retirement age, but by other legislative measures, primarily by eliminating the so-called. Special pension rights, as well as the introduction of a new formula for determining the amount of benefit, which was mentioned today during the debate, contain some economic incentives to postpone retirement. So that, with regard to the position of the family, labour and social policy department, we find the argument set out in the bill to be convincing. At the same time, we assume that the bill is based on the assumption that the decision as long as the period of employment is over, it should be left, of course within reasonable limits, to the insured person himself and should take into account the individual situation of the particular insured person. This individual situation of a particular insured person concerns his/her health, his/her labour market situation or position on the labour market, certain plans for the length of rest periods after his/her career, as well as certain expectations of the amount of benefits received during that period. For this reason, I recommend that the proposal be directed towards further legislative work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u141	Thank you very much, Minister. The floor is now voiced by a representative of the applicant undersecretary of state at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Ms Anna Surówka-Pasek. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me first comment on Mrs Leszczyna's statement that our assumptions regarding the fact that extending the period during which the person is working is a method for raising benefits. Here, the doctrine is that the same effect as extending this statistical period of life for citizens and paying contributions also means that the requirement for their retirement will be abolished. So if this is a completely voluntary retirement, there is no problem, it will achieve the same effect as by rigidly lifting this border. Another thing that rarely happens to pay attention to is this balance sheet in terms of pre-retirement benefits and their collection in 2012 and 2015. [[Two thousand...]] In the case of 2012, the Commission concluded that the aid was [[Two thousand...]] ...1119,1,000. over a million people, nearly 1120 thousand. people, received these pre-retirement benefits, while in June 2015... [[Voice from the room: 2,000...]] ...that is, after the rise of this century, these people were 1660,000, with a bridge pension of 690 thousand, sorry, 69 thousand. and in the case of another benefit, it is 137 thousand. So here there has been a sharp increase in those benefits that are received. Another thing that is also worth noting is what causes the passiveness of people at the age of 50.59 years in Poland. Here, the main factor is all kinds of health issues, mostly self-morbidity or disability, as the reason why these people are passive. It's hard to expect that someone over this age, over 59, will suddenly have much better health. This amendment proposed by your President is also in line with a certain signalling decision issued by the Constitutional Tribunal in 2010. The Court, referring to the position of the European Commission as expressed in the Green Paper, pointed out that the period of retirement should correspond to approximately 1/3 of the life expectancy. If we take into account the current data that men are talking about 73.8 years old, and we subtract this 1/3, that means that men aged about 50 should retire so that they can still retire for one third of their expected life expectancy, while considering the expected age of women who are 81.6 years old, this would be the age of 54 years old with a small lump. So these limits set out in the regulation proposed by your President are much higher than would have been the result of such pure calculations made on the basis of this 2010 signalling ruling. It should also be pointed out that the ruling of the Court - also in 2010 - where the Court pointed out that the failure to raise the retirement age or equalisation is the only method, as there is always a need to pay attention to certain natural conditions, differences between sexes. These are also biological differences, connected with the fact that, for example, women give birth to children, men - no. Therefore, very often these women point out more different types of dysfunctions of their body as a condition that they believe justifies early termination of their career. Another issue that has been raised many times here. I do not know whether Members of the Platform, so to speak, have decided whether to push people over the age of 60 with regard to women, 65. - with regard to men in the labour market or their detention, because there was such a double voice here, but in accordance with the current legal regulations, which were once again raised in the 2009 Supreme Court ruling, the achievement of the retirement age, the age which entitles them to retire, cannot be the only reason for resolving a person's employment relationship. [[In practice.]] It seems to me that there is absolutely no doubt about this here, and the desire to point out that the President here suddenly wants everyone to pass by, women aged 60, men aged 65, retired, is not justified. On the contrary, it is prohibited by the Labour Code. As far as costs are concerned, I again point out that it is not possible to correct the various deficits of the social security system only by moving the age limit. Because if you don't make a full system change, in a few years you'll have to work until you're 70, in another few to 80, or maybe just a life sentence at work. [[Applause]] This must be a systemic change, a change which at the same time includes a system of support for families, i.e. family policies, demographic policies and employment policies. You can't just do it in one narrow piece. [[Applause]] As far as these costs are concerned, it is known - even the ombudsman - that something has to be done with civil law contracts, with employment often in such a way and not in any other way. Even if the Ombudsman claims it, it may be a matter worth considering, not just criticizing, that the creator, who will be 80 years old, will write a work. What if he doesn't write the work? It means he's not gonna put his insurance money away, he's not gonna have a pension, because he's just not gonna buy it. Another issue that should also be noticed here. It is emphasized how many women will be lost, but has anyone considered that once again, without systemic changes, these women may never pay off any contributions? Because employers, fearing that a woman can go on maternity leave, on parental leave, that she will have health problems, may not want to hire women. And again it's the opposite, you have to create these possibilities. Has anyone thought about how many people just because of their state of health stop working after 60 or 65 years of age... [[Don't yell, Minister.]] ...how many people have increased the number of those who take out pre-retirement benefits, those who have converted into invalidity pensions? It's just the reality. That is why the change proposed by your President sets a certain direction, the direction that has been taken. But, of course, we are listening again to the voice of society, we are hoping for a solid debate, for a public consultation, especially in the Council of Social Dialogue, which will lead to a common position, which is accepted by society, and not only to impose reforms, which were not raised even during the 2011 electoral campaign, but were only proposed in November 2011 by Prime Minister Tusk's exposé. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u143	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of items 4 and 5 of the agenda: 4. First reading of the government draft law amending the budget law for 2015 (print No 65). 5. First reading of the government draft law amending the law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the budget law (Print No 66). Please take the floor of the Minister of Finance, Mr Paweł Szalamacha, to present the justification for the bill amending the budget law for 2015. [[Two thousand fifteenth.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The revision of the budget law for 2015 results from current data. According to these figures, the revenue of the state budget in 2015 will be lower than planned by PLN 10.5 billion, i.e. about 3.5%. The main reason for these lower revenues is VAT, a case which has been returning for many years. The proceeds from this tax will be lower by PLN 3.3 billion, and in the case of excise duty these revenues will be lower by PLN 600 million. These lower VAT and excise receipts will partly be offset by higher corporate and physical income and non-tax revenues. In addition, when we prepared this novel, natural savings in state spending are revealed: about PLN 6.6 billion. This is the result of savings due to unused special-purpose reserves, the blockade of the measures made by the authorising officers. However, the rapidly declining revenues and the limited possibility of these savings make us submit this novel, according to which the deficit limit will be increased by PLN 3.9 billion, i.e. will amount to almost PLN 50 billion - PLN 49.98 billion. Therefore, current estimates make us take into account that the general government deficit may accidentally exceed 3% for 2015, but of course it will depend on two factors, as usual in such equations, on the numerator and denominator, i.e. on what GDP will ultimately look like and how the deficit will be implemented on 31 December. These figures have been known to the public for a number of days, we will, of course, differ in terms of justification, context and consequences. Therefore, in the face of so drastically falling revenues, the government has several ways to choose: it can do nothing, but this option, of course, for our political environment - for the Law and Justice - is not an acceptable option, it can push for non-fulfilment of expenditure, exert pressure on the budgetary component managers, so that the planned expenditure in the budget is not made at all, or that it is carried over in time, or it can revise the budget, draft an amendment and come with it here, to the High House. We have decided on this third option because the VAT situation is real, has been increasing for years and shows the state of public finances in the longer term. This problem is not only called the VAT problem, but - more broadly - VAT is a symptom of problems with the ability of the Polish state to finance its activities. The state of finance, of course, has two sides, i.e. expenditure, for which other ministers are responsible, which in previous years had symptoms such as infoafer, such as a corveta for 800 million PLN, which is ultimately a patrol ship or express roads for 200 million PLN per kilometer. This area must be fixed by other ministers. In my case, I am responsible for the income sphere and I will illustrate the VAT problem on several figures, because, as I said, it has been growing for years, is systemic and has collapsed over the last 8 years. VAT was a very efficient tax and its revenues increased quite dynamicly over a number of years. And so these basic figures, which can be quoted, are: 2004, the last full year of the Democratic Left Alliance government - PLN 62 billion, the year 2005 and PLN 75 billion, 2006 - PLN 84 billion in revenue, 2007 - PLN 96 billion in revenue, i.e. we see very decent dynamics. Later there is a slowdown or breakdown and this could be considered a reason for the financial crisis in 2008/2009, not only for reasons on the part of the Polish economy. And so it was. The year 2009 was a spectacular collapse of influence in relation to the assumed ones. The revenue from VAT laid down in the budget law was PLN 118 billion, PLN 99 billion was realized, i.e. loss or unearned income amounted to PLN 19 billion. This later became more stable, but VAT revenues continued to grow slower than other phenomena, namely the real economy. Overall, between 2010 and 2015, these revenues nominally increased by around 13%. Poland's GDP increased by around 24.25%, which shows the difference between how the country's economy grows and how the state's ability to collect taxes decreases. This decrease occurred - paradoxically for some, and for some it is obvious - despite the increase in VAT rates in 2012. The result of increased rates by 1 percentage point was also a surprise for some, and for some it was also obvious, i.e. The Minister of Finance has collected less than enough. At the same time, VAT returns are increasing. In principle, the refund shall be subject to excess input tax, i.e. those invoices which the taxable person receives over the VAT due, i.e. those shown in those which he issues. We can also see that VAT returns in absolute and relative figures are increasing at a rate that is usually faster than other phenomena that could indicate this, namely export or GDP growth. There are few deviations in some years, but this is generally the trend. Between 2006, when the Law and Justice ruled, these returns amounted to PLN 28 billion, and for the last year for which we are given, 2014, that is PLN 51 billion. And as I repeat, they usually exceeded phenomena in the real economy. Such a year of special collapse was 2011, then VAT refunds increased by 27%. The above data are actual data, i.e. the influences or phrases that can be calculated. The other side... There is a so-called phenomenon in the public debate. The VAT gap, which is more difficult to calculate, can only be estimated. VAT Luka-owska, i.e. the difference between the actual receipts obtained and the receipts that would have been obtained if all tax duties had been fully settled on time. Very different sources, different institutes, different agencies estimate this VAT gap. None of these sources, none of these organizations are friendly or controlled by Law and Justice. They apply a uniform methodology to many countries, such as the OECD reference group. These data are disturbing data. Notabene I have the impression that the previous management of the Ministry of Finance also began to worry about this data, began to take certain steps to improve the situation. But what are the data? For example, in one of the reports, the Centre for Social and Economic Analysis estimates the amount of this gap - for the latest data available - at EUR 5.4 billion for 2011. The same source states cross-cuttingly that there was one period in the latest history of our country, when this gap declined from the first year of the given period of 1.9 billion to 1.2 billion, to 0.5 billion, to explode to 2.7 billion in the following year. What are the years I gave you? [[Years 2006-2007.]] This is, of course, the summer of 2006-2007, when this gap fell to EUR 0.5 billion in order to then increase very dynamically in the following year to 2.7 billion. This is the data of this CASE. Another source is PricewaterhouseCoopers, which has also estimated this for years, and I also know that the Ministry of Finance, previous management, had access to this data and also tried to address this issue. They use a different methodology, in this case the data are slightly fresher, but they are also very, very high amounts. They estimate that in 2015 this VAT-owska gap in Poland amounts to 53 billion, yes. Therefore, we can ask why - although the Polish state is less effective in collecting these taxes - at the same time, in the general sense of taxpayers' tax system, the administration is hostile, oppressive. I think we'll agree on that, too. In my opinion, this is because the administration responds to this problem in the simplest possible way and reacted so a few years ago, increasing VAT by 1 percentage point. I repeat, for some it was a surprise, for some not: next year she collected less of this tax. Thus, the problem of income of the Polish state and its ability to function is a real problem. I would point out several reasons, not pretending to be a complete and complete diagnosis. The first is tax law and its application. The second - tax administration, human resources, their competence and motivation. The third - IT systems it uses. And the fourth is an intangible dimension, culture, a system of values in society, taxpayers' willingness, citizens' willingness to maintain their own state, assisted or not by the government that these citizens are developing. We in Poland, historically - it can be said, some would argue, some historians would say - we have never been a leader in this last element, in terms of this willingness to put on their own country. The political nation of the First Republic, confined only to the nobles, had this problem: he did not want to pass taxes and pay, so after the first partition, the Prussian king established a customs chamber on the Vistula, and just as the nobles did not want to pay for their own country, so for the next 100 years she paid for three foreign countries. Today the situation is not so dramatic, of course it is not so dramatic, but it still has some political consequences. Well, what do you do when you lose your ability to finance your needs, your expenses? It performs operations such as privatisation, asset sales - these are one-off events. Sometimes he makes them honestly, but sometimes as it was done in the case of Ciechu. [[Applause]] In the case of Ciechu, I could continue this topic longer, it would be uncursed towards a colleague of David Jackiewicz, who has to correct this situation. Because I remember Ciech from 2006 and 2007, when I had a great influence, it was about creating an integrated Polish chemical group based on Ciech, Zachem, Organika-Sarzyna. This later became spectacularly plowed in Zach's case. You do other things, of course. It must carry out the operations it has carried out in the case of OFE. We may differ in the assessment of OFE, I have never been an enthusiast, but a one-off takeover - some have used stronger words - is the kind of action that the government resorts to, which has problems with the current closure of funding. Of course, other paths are increasing debt, relying on the support of other actors in international law, external financing. I gave an inexhaustible list of causes, and I will briefly illustrate each of them. VAT Luka-owska... Tax law and its application are the first of my working lists. It seems that the cause of such a large imbalance between real influences and potential influences is the operation of professional entities, it is difficult to call them entrepreneurs, which in a certain way define their business, such as making a VAT carousel, i.e. creating a chain of several, dozens of companies, which, through a chain of transactions between themselves, avoid paying the tax due or cheating on the input. Another activity is the world's most normal acceptance of empty invoices, for which nothing stands, no transaction is made. We know that there was some effort to reduce this phenomenon and the tax administration here in this House also spoke about the amount of invoices for which amounts were contested. But the ease of fraud or movement at or outside the border of the law also arises, I would say, from certain axiological holes in the system. One such hole is, for example, a sanction that exists in the legal system, for falsifying invoices. The counterfeiting of banknotes by the National Bank of Poland is punishable by a minimum of 5 years imprisonment. There are very few crimes in Poland, please, forgery of banknotes not only because they have good security features, but also because there is a much lower penalty for for forgery of documents, such as documents in the form of invoices. Therefore, a professional criminal always analyzes the risk and the payout at the end. Perhaps we need to change that. Another aspect I have mentioned is tax administration, human resources and competences, administration management. Here we have a very large imbalance. In the case of Mazovia, this is the case: according to various estimates, it produces 22,25% Polish gross domestic product, while there is a much smaller proportion of officials of the fiscal equipment in Mazowsze - about 15% . As a result, tax advisors - that's exactly what I know, because I know a lot of people from real economic backgrounds that operate in this world - simply advise their clients: if you want to start a company, register it in Warsaw, because here is the lowest probability of control. That needs to be changed, of course. These human resources must be exploited more effectively and people must be directed where economic phenomena are really being carried out, transactions. The third point on my list is IT systems. This is a very interesting issue, because, as we know, almost all private business, finances, have already passed from paper many years ago, it is about standards, from paper-to-analogue civilization to the Internet, to the Internet. Unfortunately, the tax administration failed. While banks have been computerized, transaction systems, transfer systems operate in this way, the administration is very, very slowly catching up on this gap. In 2007, the Government of Law and Justice adopted the so-called Information Technology Act. Regulation of the Council of Ministers on the State Information Plan, including one critical e-Tax project. This project was to be carried out in the following years, starting in 2008, 2009. Unfortunately, it was only in 2013 that a contract was signed with the contractor of this system, Signity, i.e. the management of the Ministry of Finance, took 6 years, although the head of the Ministry, this department was a person previously operating in the international economic circulation, knew what the problems related to this sphere in the UK were, but did not devote due attention to these problems, there was no commitment. We implement the e-Tax program, with delays we implement, other modules are returned, but this program does not contain one critical module related to what I mentioned earlier, it is about VAT carousels. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Estonia, Slovakia, the Netherlands, the UK, etc. VAT fraud is no longer stopped on the basis of individual decisions related to information, so-called. tax information, whether by competition or by any other type of symptom, but it involves the use of IT tools, analytical tools, which, on the basis of the contribution from entrepreneurs, automatically stop VAT reimbursement. Such a dedicated segment is needed and for such dedicated software - this is a very interesting case - the Ministry of Finance wanted to enrich this e-Taxes program or to add such a segment, but this application for European funding - it would be possible to try to finance it with Polish public money - was negatively assessed by the Ministry of Administration and Digitization. Therefore, you remember this quote from a person who for a time seemed to be a strong figure of Polish politics, about a Polish country that existed only theoretically. Yes, there is a critical function of the ability to collect taxes, one part, one pawn diagnoses this threat, tries to take some action, I do not know whether on time, but they are taken, while on the other hand the proposal is to give a negative opinion, reject. All these elements that I am talking about should be intertwined, should create one coherent system. We have taken steps to ensure that, step by step, each of these matters, the tax system, the legal system and its application, administration and IT are repaired in the coming months, perhaps years. That's what we're working on. I'm working with my deputies. I will appear in the Seym with these solutions and I will ask for support for specific legal solutions, some in the logic of the so-called. Specializes, because we need at least this software to get it quickly enough and install it quickly to have effects. However, apart from this, let us call it determination and political will, any such action, in this case the repair of public finances, should look for political and social allies. Of course, I am convinced that such an ally, such a basis will be the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, while I would like to convince some of the opposition, the more pro-state one, also to support this type of action, because there are certain things that go beyond the horizon of direct political interest, the horizon of the term of office. In addition to political support, a social ally is needed. From this point on, I would like to appeal to two groups which have theoretically conflicting interests, i.e. to the employees of the fiscal apparatus and to the entrepreneurs. Especially to those entrepreneurs who want to produce shoes or run bookstores, or build bridges, but not to those who from the very beginning define their business as the ability to print empty invoices and shoot VAT carousels. In the face of those who may be accepting an entrepreneur's costume, we will want to be consistent and effective and make it difficult or even impossible for them to do so. I took the first step towards entrepreneurs last Friday when I changed the position of the Ministry of Finance in relation to the so-called. currency options and costs... [[Tax interpretation.]] Absolutely, my fellow Member. ...to be paid by entrepreneurs to purchase foreign exchange options. Between 2008 and 2009, a number of Polish producers tried to secure their revenue stream by purchasing foreign exchange options. [[Often in several banks and often in excess of the amount of the transaction.]] [[That's true, too. That's true.]] Of course, there will be an opportunity for discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, please don't disturb the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u146	Then there was a situation, I would say, a certain immature financial supervision. This was a situation connected with the fact that for a few weeks Polish zlotys oscillated around 2 PLN for 1 dollar - the natural desire of exporters was to protect themselves - and there was also a very aggressive sales share of the banking sector. Then the future change in the financial markets and these companies received the first blow, i.e. they had to liquidate positions, in many cases it affected their liquidity, and some had to declare bankruptcy. But the next step was the second blow, i.e. the tax administration did not consider spending on buying options as the cost of doing business. There was, of course, a difference, and this is where it began to sketch, as to the validity of these costs. For companies whose half the production profile was exported and where there were such cases of hedges against foreign exchange risks, this is a natural activity. Financial supervision should ensure that, at that time, there are still problems with the implementation of the MiFID - these decisions have not been taken hastily. On the other hand, it is not possible to deny entrepreneurs such activities, which are rational especially in the case where the dollar was 2 zlotys, but after the first blow they received a second blow. Thus, repeating this position: it may be one of the more difficult tasks - to change the relationship between taxpayers and entrepreneurs and the fiscus so that they also participate and have the belief that they are participating in a system which is their partner, where the tax administration does not react in an allergic way to falling tax revenues, but is able to take into account the real legitimate interests of the Polish economy, the producers' companies which may have been disturbed or even overturned, I propose the adoption of a novel. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u147	Thank you very much, Minister. I now ask that the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Ms Hanna Majszczyk, speak in order to present the justification for the bill amending the Act amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the budget law. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Law amending the Law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the Budget Law is closely linked to the draft new budget for 2015, which has just been presented by the Minister of Finance. This amending act is like a complement to the facts that are already presented in this novel, and de facto the things that have occurred, because in this novel we present a change to the Act on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. According to the law I mentioned, national defence expenditure is planned at 1.95% GDP from the previous year. Given the fact that, for the reasons mentioned by the Minister, we are presenting a budget novel, of course we are interfering with the planned expenditure. And here is the fact that there has been in the last month: the creation of natural savings, also in the section: National Defense. Both with the Minister of National Defence, but not only, because also in other parts, in part 20, i.e. in part: Economy, in part: Communications, as well as some voivodships in spending on so-called. extra-military defence preparations have created natural savings in connection with the prices that actually were for the actions that were carried out as a result of these tasks. They have not been spent and will no longer be spent as regards the heading: National Defence, a total of 209 492 000. zł. Such locks were reported by the dispatchers in part. However, for the correctness, compliance of this budget novel with the law, i.e. ensuring its compliance with the Law on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces, it was necessary to make this change in order to present the amount of planned national defence expenditure of less than PLN 209 million, which I mentioned. As I have just pointed out, this involves not cutting expenditure at the authorising officer's office, that is, cutting expenditure, taking these resources away from him, but taking into account in the novel the natural savings that have already been made, given, of course, one of the basic principles of the Public Finance Act, and which also applies to those authorising officers who spend and have public resources for national defence, namely: managing these measures as efficiently as possible, so as to achieve maximum results with the least possible effort. The second amendment proposed in this law is also closely related to the draft novel that was mentioned just now, and is linked to a change in the text section that is proposed in the budget novel, where it is possible for the finance minister to set up a special reserve in 2015, in the event that there is also a natural one - I stress - of the blockage of expenditure in the budget component managers. Then, on the basis of this provision, which was proposed in the text section, the Minister of Finance could create a special reserve from which expenditure on strategic reserves would be financed. In the Law amending the Law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the Budget Act, supplementing this provision contained in the textual part of the draft new budget for 2015 - because it is already December and there are a few weeks left by the end of the year, in order to use this possibility in this law so-called. Around the budget - it is proposed that in the case of the creation of the special reserve I mentioned, as well as with regard to possible changes to the financial plan of the Material Reserve Agency do not apply procedures strictly resulting as principles of the Public Finance Act, i.e. in this case there should also be no need to go to the High House to consult on the revision of the financial plan and the spending of resources for the implementation of strategic reserve tasks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u149	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in the joint discussion on these items. I'm opening a discussion. The speeches on behalf of the clubs are opened by Mr Jerzy Żyżyński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u150	Hello. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister and Minister! Dear Izbo! The government presented an amendment to the 2015 Budget Act, which is the current year. Why? Because the transition to the 2016 budget requires a reliable starting point. It cannot be the unfulfilled budget bill for this year. It is necessary to take into account the most likely real implementation of this budget this year. The High House must therefore proceed with this new version. The budget, I would like to remind you, is the most important tool of the state in carrying out its tasks and responsibilities towards society. These tasks and duties are carried out by those members of our community, by the public who are employed in public institutions financed directly from the state budget or from local budgets, and by those who are employed in the private sector but are financed by public funds. These people need to be paid fair money, given work tools, and all this requires funding. The appointment of these public tasks and the allocation of funds to them is precisely the state budget. Good budget preparation is the most important task of every government. This task has not been well done in recent years. Not because, according to superficially educated economists, budgets were in deficit, because a deficit at a reasonable level that can be financed by surplus national savings - surplus national savings - is such an economic concept - i.e. those savings that have not turned into investments that result in an increase in wealth or increase in labour productivity, so such a deficit, such a budget, is not harmful, can be useful, because it revives the economy. That is why in the European Union, and also in our law, there is such a limit - 3% - because it is considered that the deficit is not harmful to this level, it can be useful. In recent years, however, we have faced bad budgets because they have led to the atrophy of the state, its bad functioning precisely because of the lack of good funding. As one of the ministers of this government, who implemented these poor budgets, said it was a country, I do not want to express myself, ChDiKK. Yes, in short, one of the ministers of the former government said. This atrophy is shown by the numbers. Total revenue this year will be lower than planned in the budget by PLN 10.5 billion, i.e. 3.5%. And that is what was included in this revision of the budget, as the Minister said. I would like to remind you that the European Commission has recently withdrawn the excessive deficit procedure for Poland and the need to respect the so-called. expenditure rules. Let me remind you that the expenditure rule requires that expenditure be disciplined when the deficit is already above 3%. The question arises as to whether this drop in revenue is a consequence of not achieving revenue at the right level or of stretching it at the time of budget planning in 2014. Let me remind you that in recent years even higher incomes have been planned and implemented at a level similar to this year's. The minister talked about it, and I'll remind you in a slightly different shot. In 2009 303 billion PLN was planned, 274.2, in 2012 294 were planned to be rounded, 288 were carried out, 299, implementation - 279 was planned, in 2014. 277,8 planned asekurancko This time more than PLN 283.5 billion were realized. These are financial tricks, budget design tricks that mislead various institutions - as well as Poles. Assuming that the estimated GDP will be PLN 1770 billion this year, it can be said that nominal GDP has increased by 30% since 2009 and by 11% since 2012. So, with a clear increase in gross domestic product, we have a regression of budgetary revenue. In 2009 they accounted for 20.4% GDP, in 2014 - 16.7% , this year it will be about 16% GDP. With such a policy, the state cannot function well, there is no chance of fulfilling its responsibilities towards citizens, because of course, the State does not carry out its tasks for itself, only for society, for citizens. It simply provides us with all the public goods that are necessary for the proper functioning of our society, our society. The biggest regression occurred in VAT income. He talked about it a lot, it's very important things, Minister. Since 2012, VAT revenues have been at the same level, although there has been a 11% increase in GDP, ladies and gentlemen. Despite this increase, VAT is roughly at the same level. Losses in the tax on goods and services are estimated at as much as PLN 50.60 billion. They come from extortion, and I have spoken very much about it, Minister, and I will not repeat it. It is better with excise duty, but it is also significant that although in recent years the revenues from excise duty were closer to planned, however, since 2009, when GDP increased by 32%, excise revenue increased by only 16.7%. , i.e. excise revenue grew twice as slowly as the gross domestic product. Similarly, CIT - over the same period, revenues increased by 6% with GDP growth by 32%. When we look at these figures, it is significant that this year revenue has increased significantly in the heading: Fees, fines, interest and other non-tax revenues, because by 9.3%. These revenues have just increased, so it could be said that income has increased where the state is oppressive, harassing the ordinary, simple citizen. It is characteristic that in this income position during the years of the former coalition's reign we had a systematic increase. Since 2008, the growth has been almost 58%, while GDP has increased by 39%. So such fines, etc., here as if we were very efficient, while where we had to collect taxes from the great ones, we were unfortunately very undisturbed, to say the least. [[Applause]] The state ruled by POs and PSLs, by the coalition in the previous term of the Sejm, is a country harsh and strong against the weak, weak and submissive to the strong. That's what you need, ladies and gentlemen, to remember. [[We'll remind you.]] Very good, very good. And a brief reflection, ladies and gentlemen, about the spending rule itself. It is generally wrong to treat the expenditure rule as a tool to normalise the budget deficit only by having an impact on budgetary expenditure, i.e. by inhibiting or even cutting these expenditures. I have shown you Members, Mrs and Mr, the former Vice-Ministers that we have difficulties in recruiting as Vice-Ministers, because for such money specialists, professionals do not want to work, and you too have had such problems. [[This was mentioned by Prime Minister Bieńkowska at the time.]] And that's the consequence of the spending rule. [[Mrs. Bieńkowska talked about it, and you laughed.]] So there are areas where you can't cut, you can't stop, because the so-called. structural arrears, which later are very difficult to make up for. But let's not talk about the big ones... [[But now you've also frozen...]] Madam, please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u151	Please, Madame, do not disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u152	Maybe I'll finish up and talk to you later on the side, in the cockroaches. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not about these vice-ministers, this is also about e.g. Nurses who are short of money because that's where we've been blocking the increase in budget spending. Expenditure in the budget shall, as I recall, constitute an absolute limit and the authorising officers shall be governed by the principles of the financial economy set out in Article. 162 Public Finance Act, including among others the principle of sound management of public funds in a targeted and cost-effective manner, while ensuring that the best results are obtained from the expenditure concerned. Unfortunately, everyone who is involved in financing various projects knows very well that financing too cost-effective is contrary to the demand to obtain the best results from the investments concerned. This is also one of the most important problems of repairing the Polish state, so that it serves its citizens and economic development well. And the revision of the budget for this year is the starting point for us to develop, Minister and Minister, a good budget for the next year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the club, I request that the draft amendment to the Budget Act be submitted to the Finance Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u153	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform, now has a voice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, Minister! High Izbo! In our view, this amendment is not really necessary. In fact, the decision to amend does not have an economic justification; it has a clear political dimension. In fact, it is about shifting revenues from LTE, from the frequency auction from the current year to the next year. In this way, the government wants to partially finance its electoral promises. On the income side, there was a shift in income from the LTE auction. The explanatory memorandum states: for the purposes of drawing up an updated forecast of non-tax revenues, a lack of payment for LTE frequencies was adopted in 2015. We, I can say, assumed that these funds would fund the budget this year. Let us remember that the revenues from the auction have a one-off dimension, while the expenditures created, we are talking about these future expenditures, although not anymore. Measures will still be needed to implement them, and this will deepen the deficit in the following years. This approach of the government gives a very worrying signal of the relaxation of fiscal policy, because meeting spending needs with a greater deficit is precisely the signal. In our opinion, this is a really very dangerous direction for Polish public finances, an indication of the deficit as a source of funding for electoral promises. This means not only a potential entry into the excessive deficit procedure, but let us remember that a larger deficit is also higher taxes, it is higher interest rates, more uncertainty, and consequently lower investments, higher taxes, higher interest rates, it is also more inequality in income. The larger deficit also changes the structure of expenditure. Lower development expenditure, higher social expenditure, lower export in the background, also due to exchange rate fluctuations, slower diffusion of knowledge. In extreme cases this is insolvent, therefore also drastic tax increases and chaotic expenditure cuts. Is this what we want to prepare for Poland and Poles? We know the promises are gonna cost, but we need to ask who's gonna pay for them. The amount free we talked about a few days ago. I cannot believe that without agreement with the government, the President proposed its entry into force on 1 January 2015 without the agreement of the President. Only that the effects did not even count correctly, because it missed the loss of income of NFZ, almost PLN 2 billion. Well, 500 zł for all children, then not for all, finally - as in the good old days - to whomever it is, to whom it is not. And it's not just a hand, it's an extension of the charity trap. Who will the state pay to work with this approach? Already in many places in the country, finding people willing to work is bordered by a miracle. Plus, let's add retirement age, free meds. There is a shortage of resources, but the deficit you want to finance does not relieve you of the question of who will pay for it. This threatens, unfortunately, the economic slowdown, the rapid increase in public debt, also the increase in debt service costs, and this threatens, as I have already said, in fact, the drastic increase in taxes and the uncontrolled cut in expenditure. The government, on the other hand - it has been very clear today in the club's speech - wants to prove that the reason for the amendment is different, that the situation of Polish public finances is worse than we presented it and presented it. The tax gap we are talking about, the development of fiscal crime, IT and its shortcomings, are undoubtedly facts. I thank the Minister for pointing out that the predecessors have, however, taken a lot of action to reduce this gap, to monitor it better, and to fight against economic crime. We have also taken action in terms of computerisation, delayed maybe and conducted at a really unsatisfying pace for anyone. But if we're talking about amending the budget and pointing out that income loss is the result of lower VAT revenues... In such a case, if we want to be tempted to analyse where it came from, and we are talking about amending the 2015 budget, then the loss of revenue comes mainly from the fact that the forecast we used to prepare the 2015 budget law was not carried out, I am talking about 2014, and this is a loss of 1800 million PLN, also from the fact that for the first time in the Polish economy we have deflation, and the price level directly affects the VAT base. If we were to look closer at the main intermediaries of the VAT base - that is private consumption, investments, purchases by the public finance sector - it would appear that the rate of increase in the weighted VAT rate is significantly lower than the forecast rate. This also results in a loss of income. Only in the first half of the year, as regards the increase in the tax base, the losses can be estimated at 1800 million. This is a question of the changes that we have made regarding authorised entrepreneurs, the EO, and the settlement of one-off imports... [[In the declaration.]] ...directly in the import tax return. The number of users of this offer increases from month to month. The loss in the first half of the year was 1,200 million. Increase in tax arrears. It is worth to say here that only this year the increase in VAT is PLN 10 billion. Most of this is really the determination of tax control. The problem is, unfortunately, there is no budget revenue. My friend is looking at me, so I'm gonna finish up and give her the floor or I'm gonna let her...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u155	Thank you very much. Within the remaining time, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! I'd like to say yes. Experts are talking about this proposal to amend that this is a political proposal. And we agree on that. It will also cause some kind of turmoil in the financial markets, because we do not know how it can affect the future rating of Poland. We understand that this is an opening balance, but in a rather long speech by Minister Shamacha, who spoke about the tax gap, unfortunately we have not heard any information about what the Minister is going to do. I would like to remind you that the Minister, being a Member of the Committee on Public Finance, asked for such control. Today, he has not said what steps he intends to take in this area, in terms of reducing the tax gap or in terms of VAT collection. We have submitted only a draft amendment extending the duration of the tax administration, the shift from 1 January to July next year. So all experts, maybe someone will say that few, but two important experts said: The proposal is justified. But is it necessary? Unfortunately, no, and it will cause a lot of confusion. There were a lot of applause in this room - and I would join them myself - because in the part where taxes are shown on individuals, on small entrepreneurs, this recklessness is good, but unfortunately not in these other positions. The Minister won't convince us, he won't convince us, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that any action has been taken in this regard. In view of the risks associated with this amendment, the weakening of possibilities, in the future lowering the rating of Poland, it really does not need to be dealt with. We have a number of issues that we should take into account in the next year's budget, and even the proposal to create a special reserve for military affairs, which the Minister of Finance has put at his disposal, does not convince us. On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to request that this project be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski is now speaking on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club,15 I wanted to present our position on amending the 2015 Budget Act. First of all, I would like to point out that the current amendment is not necessary, it is not really necessary. While revenues are significantly lower, by 10.5 billion, and these revenues are precisely due to the fact that they are smaller, it is necessary to increase, the expenditure is also smaller. In fact, if the implementation of the budget is analysed between January and October, the revenue has been made at 80%, but the expenditure has been made at 79%. In fact, when you look at the implementation of the budget for 10 months and the plan for 2015 as a whole, the revenue side was 58 billion and the expenditure side was to be implemented. As much as 70 billion. As a result, the deficit after 10 months is 34.5 billion and there is still 11.5 billion to be realised. Looking at how the budget has been implemented so far, about 3.5 billion per month of deficit, we have 11.5 billion for 2 months. Even if we consider that the LTE has been re-accounted for for next year, this 9 billion has actually turned into 1.5 billion, even if we take this into account, it should still be enough for these expenses, with the savings and cuts in expenditure that are currently being made. That's why we're wondering why really... what this amendment is going to do. This amendment is aimed at putting aside blackheads, and this must be made clear: to put aside blackheads for the next year, because in the next year it is not known how it will be with public finances, because the election projects of Laws and Justice on 500+, regarding the amount of free, with regard to the reduction of the retirement age, on medicines... This whole bunch of prosocial projects really requires a certain number of resources. And we don't know how much of this money will go back to the budget in the form of VAT. We're probably not able to accurately estimate that. It is not known how much it will cost, because it is not visible, how it will spread out in time, the consequences of introducing these social elements, and that is why in fact Law and Justice must organize powerful blackheads, must organize powerful money for themselves, so that then in mid-year or at the end of the year it does not turn out that these reforms cannot be achieved without a clear increase in the deficit. And we think that the 10 billion that the Law and Justice are trying to cut down on this budget right now, that's putting off spending for next year, securing themselves, really. In our opinion, there is no reason for LTE to move to next year, in fact it should be shown this year. I understand that this is also a way for this year's deficit and next year's deficit to fit somehow at this level of 3%, so that it doesn't have to be explained later that this year's deficit is smaller, but next year's deficit must be much bigger. I would like to add that, apart from the fact that there are some negative issues related to the implementation of this year's budget, such as above all VAT receipts, they are also positive, because PIT is completed after 10 months at 81.5% , CIT is implemented at 87.7%. This implementation shows that healthy elements of the economy, entrepreneurs, are well, pay taxes extra and here we do not see any effect of the crisis. The crisis is in VAT and action needs to be stepped up - not in moving money from 2015 to 2016, not in hiding LTE, but in stepping up action on VAT. We are in a hurry with many laws in this Seym, and we are in no hurry to say so, with VAT control. So far, there is no bill that will improve the collection of VAT money and correct those errors that the previous government has made regarding the uncontrolled collection of VAT money. I would expect us to start repairing finance from this side, not from the side that we will be moving money from 2015 to 2016. As far as expenditure is concerned, I would like to point out that there are quite powerful savings, because the implementation of debt expenditure is 85%. Current expenditure of budgetary units is only 73% on a scale of 10 months and property expenditure is 56%. So that you can save and you can show, we as the Kukiza Movement have always been in favour of not increasing your expenses, just leaving money in citizens' pockets, allowing them to decide for themselves, and reducing expenses. And the purpose of the amendment, if an amendment is needed, if an amendment is needed at all, should be to significantly reduce expenditure. If the situation is that the property expenditure of the budgetary units is 56% after 10 months I mean, you didn't have to plan so much, did you? You can save money if you want. And we would like to see that such effects of the revision of the budget are as common as possible, and as rare as possible the revision of the budget under the title we are increasing the deficit to 50 billion, because we are actually increasing the deficit to 50 billion, and we are already forecasting to increase the deficit to 55 billion in 2016, as much as not more. The deficit, as I said, after 10 months of 34.5 billion we still have 11 billion, so there is no risk for this year. In fact, this amendment is, in our view, a safeguard, once again, a safeguard of the rule of law and justice for the coming year. And we don't really see the need to support these kinds of initiatives. The Kukiz Members' Club15 will vote against and not forward it to the committee, but reject it at first reading, because we believe that this amendment is not necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska now speaks on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the end of October this year, all indicators indicated that the deficit in 2015 would be much lower than initially planned. It was known that much less money from the tax on goods and services would be paid to the state, but it was also estimated, as my previous speaker said, much lower than the planned expenditure. What happened, then, that the Ministry of Finance proposes a change to the budget of this year's deficit of nearly PLN 4 billion? The amendment of the budget law assumes that the revenue of the state budget in 2015 will be reduced by 3.5%, i.e. about PLN 10.5 billion. The main reason for not implementing the budget on the revenue side is, as has been the case many times here, the lower VAT receipts were assumed. The gap is a consequence, among others. one-off transfers of revenue during the first half of the year following changes in VAT accounts, but also low collection of tax duties and deflation. The problem with the collection, but also the tightness of the system of goods and services tax, as the Minister emphasized here, has been bothering us for years, and in our opinion it can indeed affect the revenue of the state in the years to come. With this in mind, it would be good for the current governing team to finally deal with changes sealing the VAT system, not taking power over standard assumptions. At the same time, the Modern Club encourages the convergence and reduction of the VAT rate to 16%. In our view, this would increase, contrary to appearances, the revenue to the state budget. They enjoy higher than assumed income from CIT and PIT. The total amount, PLN 1.7 billion higher than the original budget law, confirms the better economic condition. Let us hope that the changes in taxes announced by the Law and Justice do not change this direction. The higher result on the PIT tax is all the more worth emphasising that this year, for the first time, this tax was charged with a refund of the uncounted relief for children. This position this year amounted to PLN 1.3 billion. Unfortunately, I am concerned that its growth has not been included in the costs of the presidential bill on the increase in the amount of free money and it can generate a gap in PIT revenue next year. In analyzing the revenues, it must also be stated explicitly that the deficit increase is also affected by the deletion of the auction payment from the Budget Act for the reservation of the LTE frequency. It's been mentioned here before. The auction, which took place in October this year, gave the sum of offers exceeding PLN 9 billion and the new government included this item in the budget next year. At this point, I must appeal to the Law and Justice: remember that it is unacceptable that multi-annual social programmes should be based on one-off impacts. These one-off influences should possibly be a safety valve when it comes to e.g. lower VAT receipts. Turning to expenditure, the amendment assumes that expenditure will be reduced by PLN 6.6 billion. This is the result of savings resulting from unused special-purpose reserves and lower cost of service of national debt. In our view, the amendment has completely underestimated the savings on current expenditure. Natural expenditure savings and transfers of certain tenders and tasks for the following year should give a higher position than assumed, especially under deflation conditions. We are afraid that the new government, moving spending from 2016 to the current year, is preparing another artificial space for fulfilling the electoral promises. This is also unacceptable. As a result, this situation gives us an increase in the general government deficit, which may temporarily exceed 3%, as we read in the document. GDP. Originally for 2015, the deficit was assumed to reach 2.8%. This forecast confirms the tense situation of the state's finances. After 8 years of government of the previous PO-PSL team, we have a very high public debt of more than 50% GDP, i.e. close to constitutional limits, and an equally high deficit which, although declining in recent years, is still relatively high. As a modern club, we are further in favour of public finance reform and further reducing the deficit. The deficit at such a high level will translate into an increase in public debt, and that is not what our consent is. It should be stressed that the high deficit means for Poland a greater sensitivity to economic change and global crises. The fact that we once managed to get out of the crisis with a defensive hand and we were Europe's green island does not guarantee us success for the future. [[Thanks to the Platform.]] About 60% of our public debt is in the hands of foreign investors, so we are increasingly dependent on mood fluctuations of people thinking globally, who can make strategic decisions without a detailed analysis of the Polish market. And last but not least. Such a high deficit does not give us a safe space to solve the problems of an ageing society that will grow every year. It is the responsibility of the current government to move on to long-term planning, how to solve these problems, not to loosen fiscal policy. Unfortunately, we have such announcements. It frightens the fact that the PiS puts the fulfilment of electoral promises above the welfare of the state and the state of public finances. In conclusion, the Modern Club will not support changes in the budget increasing the state deficit. It is the responsibility of the government to guard the well-adjusted influences and to hold the expenses hard, even if they are the downfall of the previous governing team. The state should be economical and rational, because only then will it serve its citizens well. We believe that a deep reform of state finances is needed. The country cannot afford a further increase in public debt. Social distribution we have said, we have said and we will continue to say: no, even if it costs us public support. We repeat it like a mantra: Poland can really be arranged better for the same money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u161	Thank you very much. In the rest of the time, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I'll refer to print 66, which changes the budget bill. It turns out that suddenly there was PLN 209 million in the section: National Defense. I am surprised that there is no Minister Macierewicz, who says that he has been taken 209 million PLN, because I think that this money would be useful in this section, especially since our country is now in a geographical place where it is not too safe, and it would be good not to change this principle that the national defence expenditures will amount to 1,95% GDP. I'm aware, and I think you're also very fond of shopping, especially shopping before Christmas. The Prime Minister went to Silesia, spent PLN 209 million, buying 836,000. t coal. I just wanted to point out that, unfortunately, there's nothing under the tree that can't fit. It wonders that instead of collecting savings and reducing the budget deficit, we are trying to spend this money immediately. I don't understand this logic, the more that we have three weeks left for a good cause by the end of the year, so there was no need. The modern really draws attention to the fact that these pre-election promises of Laws and Justice will have to be financed from the state budget, but points out one thing: that it is not the money that we will give these children - I am talking about the amount of 500+ - only this is the money that we borrow for a good cause, because if we implement these promises from the state budget, we will add this money to their debt, public debt to these children at 18 years of age. Unfortunately, it is. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Modern Club is in favour of rejecting this law in its entirety, at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u163	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party Club, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on draft laws on amending the budget law for 2015 and popularly called around budget law according to prints No. 65 and 66. According to the analysis of the State budget for 2015 carried out by the government there has been a significant loss of revenue and hence the government proposes whether an amendment of the law is required. The forecast loss of revenue for the whole year will amount to almost PLN 10.5 billion. The biggest decrease is forecasted in the tax on goods and services and will be more than PLN 13 billion lower than that adopted in the Budget Act. One reason was the revision of the VAT rules, which enabled traders with the status of an entity authorised to settle VAT on imports from outside the European Union, as is the case with imports from Member States. These provisions delayed VAT clearance, and this was particularly the case in the first half of this year. In addition, the government assesses the relatively low collection rate for this tax. It seems that the situation will be resolved in the future, because the rulers have often ensured that the tax system is sealed, so surely this problem will no longer be in the future. The question remains how this intended and repeated objective will be achieved. However, in search of the causes of low VAT revenues, I would also like to draw attention to other issues which may have had an impact on the situation. I mean, for example, foreign trade, relatively low import dynamics in relation to our country's exports. The analysis of external trade indicators in 2008 and 2014 shows that Poland is at the forefront of EU exporters. Poland's trade balance has improved significantly over the past 6 years. During this period, Poland's exports grew by 4.7% on average. and imports grew nearly twice as slowly at the same time, on average by 2.5% each year. This should also be added to the significant decrease in import prices. The price of such goods as fuel, whose import is a significant item in the Polish foreign trade system, is particularly important here. The 2015 budget also noted a drop in excise tax revenue of over PLN 600 million, mainly due to a decrease in excise duty on tobacco products. On the other hand, the increase in corporate and natural income taxes together by an amount of approx. 1800 million PLN, as well as an increase in non-tax revenues by over 1700 million. However, the lack of payment for auctions for the LTE frequency reservation in 2015 remains unclear. The obvious question is: Why? What made the sales of the frequency for the amount of PLN 9 billion to be postponed to the next year? Isn't this a targeted action that deepens the deficit of the current year and improves the budgetary situation for the next year? On the state budget's expenditure side they were blocked and generated so-called. natural savings, which will amount to almost PLN 6.5 billion. In many cases, these savings are simply cuts in budget expenditure called by the government. The reduction in expenditure will occur in most budget lines. The largest of them are: special reserve - over 2800 million, service of domestic debt - approx. 2150 million, service of foreign debt - 350 million PLN. The latter are the result of more favourable exchange rates and lower interest rates, as well as some expenditure still in 2014. In Part 42: Internal issues of savings will amount to more than PLN 240 million, in Part 73: Zakład Ubezpieczeń Społecznych - more than PLN 280 million. Significant, very significant changes and cuts occur in Part 29: National defence and will amount to PLN 209 million, of which current expenditure - PLN 114 million and investment expenditure - PLN 95 million. The revision of the budget law in this part requires a revision of the so-called. a budget law. Loss of resources spent in part: National defence requires the abolition of the adopted rule, which specifies that annual expenditure from the state budget for defence purposes must not be less than 1,95% GDP of the previous year. The revised budget also severely violates expenditure in part 85: Voivodeships' budgets, reducing them by more than 110 million PLN, including property expenditure by more than 28 million PLN, almost entirely from the heading: Agriculture and hunting, while the reduction of current expenditure mainly affected health protection - by almost 72 million PLN, which is certainly a highly irrational decision. This cut of voivodship budgets was most affected by the voivodship: Wielkopolskie - PLN 23 million, Mazowieckie - PLN 17 million, Łódź - PLN 16 million and my Lublin - PLN 11.5 million. In summary, the revised state budget after the government's forecasting of revenues and cuts of expenditure increases the deficit by a large amount, as much as PLN 3900 million. The proposal for such an amendment of the state budget cannot be accepted by my club. It can be accepted that overestimated VAT revenues require some adjustment of the budget, but this assessment submitted by the current government is simply unreliable, irrational and clearly manipulated. The proof of this easy assessment of the budgetary situation is, for example, the fact that the government assumes further savings in expenditure and plans to set up a special-purpose reserve for the purpose of carrying out the tasks of the Material Reserve Agency. Right now, we're here to complement the strategic reserves. Allegedly, it will be from excess expenditure blocked by more than PLN 6.6 billion. Again, High Izbo, the question arises as to whether this is necessary in a situation where the indicators of the Polish economy are relatively good, stable, there is no crisis situation in the social sphere. Is it therefore reasonable to increase the budget deficit by such a large amount? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u165	Thank you very much. At this point, Members joined the questions. Please, Mr Paweł Arndt, Civic Platform. Question time - 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Minister! I have no doubt that these laws are ruining public finances. There is no fundamental reason for us to update the budget in mid-December. I have an estimate of the current data on the implementation of the State budget, I have data on the revenue and expenditure schedule of the State budget for 2015 and these documents do not give rise in any way to the need for the budget to be revised completely at the end of the year. Besides, my previous speakers were talking about the details here, but I also wanted to say that we also received expertise on this subject today. We have received three expert reports and, in fact, each of them shows that there is no need for us to update the budget. But my question concerns a slightly different thing, namely the around budget bill, the one contained in print number 66. There, among others. the establishment of a special-purpose reserve and the allocation of funds from this special-purpose reserve to the Material Reserve Agency is envisaged. And at the same time, art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. The 6th Public Finance Act requires the Minister to obtain a positive assessment of the Public Finance Commission in this case. On the other hand, you want to eliminate this possibility, you do not want to get a positive opinion from the Committee on Public Finance, you do not want to ask the Committee on Public Finance about it, you do not want the Sejm to control the expenditure of the state budget. Why is this happening? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u167	Thank you very much. The question is now asked by Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Many of my previous speakers pointed out that the revenue of the state budget would not be realised for about PLN 10.5 billion. So I would like to ask the Minister: What made the government decide not to book the revenue from the sales of frequencies this year? And please make it clear from this speaker how much we are talking about. Question two. The budget implementation data for 10 months do not indicate a difficult budgetary position. Why, then, does Law and Justice increase the budget deficit, often ensuring that there is no agreement on the debt of future generations? And question three. Minister, after the budget changes, more than 200 million have been found to buy coal for the Material Reserve Agency. Then why don't you find some more money to buy pork and milk? After all, the situation of farmers is not better than the situation of Polish miners. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u169	Thank you very much. Now you ask Mieczysław Baszko, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As for the changes to the budget bill, I have questions. Why does the PiS decide to change the stabilisation of the expenditure rule, which will allow for an increase in budget expenditure? When will the tax-free amount you announced so loudly in the election campaign be increased? It seems that we will probably have to wait until 2017 for the next promise of the PiS, as the corresponding changes were not introduced in income tax by the end of November. What will this have to do with the budget? Will the increased amount be implemented immediately, or will it be spread over 2, 3 or 4 years, as the Minister said? What does the advanced restructuring programme in Polish mining, mentioned by Minister Morawiecki mean? Will unprofitable mines be closed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u171	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the draft amendments to the budget and amendments to the budget-by-budget law, you are assuming an increase in the funds that will fund the Material Reserve Agency, and at the same time you are asking not to consider these expenses from the reserve and to transfer these funds to the Public Finance Commission, not to consult it. However, it might be worthwhile to present what is behind this change, because we learn from the newspapers that it is about buying coal on heaps, buying coal and keeping it on these heaps. So maybe you wouldn't hide it, you wouldn't keep it a secret, you would just show your intentions here in this case, which is dictated by this operation, and where it's going. Secondly, the Minister was kind to say that we could catch the 3% deficit of public finances this year through these manoeuvres. I'd like some clarity on this case. Does this mean that we are already putting ourselves at risk of being restored to the excessive deficit procedure? What is the risk if these 3% would it be compromised by now? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u173	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It is a pity that it was only the former Deputy Minister of Finance Janusz Cichoń who had to explain to the High House why you were actually updating the 2015 budget, while you should have done so. [[Applause]] All clubs unanimously stated that an amendment to the 2015 budget was unnecessary. Even if you wanted to say that we are opposition clubs, you still have to argue with two views of BAS, Professor Gomulka and Professor Orłowski, that, of course, from a formal point of view, you can update the budget, but it is harmful and completely unnecessary. Besides, you're gonna be basically... Of course, the beneficiaries of these costs, the negative effects of the amendment will be all Polish taxpayers, but you will also be the main beneficiary as Minister of Finance. The European Commission has already threatened Prime Minister Morawiecki with the mouth of Vice-President Dombrovskis and reminded me of what my previous speaker said, that unfortunately we will exceed the 3% ceiling. GDP, which is the EU's limitable deficit ceiling. We have built the financial credibility of Poland in the European Union and in the financial markets for 8 years, which is why I think we have the right to expect that you will not destroy this credibility in the first few weeks of government. And I can assure you that the implementation of the PiS programme, which is based on the fact that the state reduces revenue and increases expenditure [[♪ The bell ♪]] under the excessive deficit procedure, it is simply not feasible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u175	Thank you very much. Now the question will be asked by Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u176	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Here is a very important question whether you are actually moving the proceeds from the auction to the LTE frequency reservation to finance one of your populist pro-social promises next financial year. Let me remind you that the basic principle of accounting is that long-term expenditure should be financed from repetitive sources of income rather than from one-off sources. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u177	Thank you very much. Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u178	Thank you, Marshal. The question to the Minister of the Shame Room. Minister, could you tell the High House how much coal we have bought? Recently it was purchased for the amount of PLN 200 million, but in the past, we understand, you criticized that energy companies also purchased coal. So was this last purchase a targeted purchase, and how much coal do we have in stock? That's one thing. Second thing. To those comments which my colleagues, both Mr Cichoń and Mrs Leszczyn, have made, I would like to add. The third issue is related, among others. with lower VAT collection. The Minister knew this very well and in this matter he put forward a proposal in the Committee on Public Finances of the previous term on VAT collection and this gap. I would like to ask, since the Minister has submitted, the government has requested an amendment to what you have proposed to the Ministry. We are not talking about a one-off tax interpretation on the purchase of foreign exchange options. We are not interested in the amount of a few million, because it is really a few million zlotys for taxpayers, but we are interested in the amount about which you said it could be easily and pleasantly downloaded from the market. It is about irrecoverable VAT of PLN 50 billion. Therefore, from the Minister in this amendment, since you have taken an opening balance and showed the problem, I am expecting today, as Mr Cymanski said, coffee on the bench. I'd like you to say one at a time that this is the first time you've done this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the second, in the next six months, I am able to talk to you, I have sealed the tax system, we will have VAT paid on time, and that is what we expect. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u179	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Piotr Polak, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u180	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have heard a lot here in the debate of prescriptions, why this is the case, that VAT revenue is unfortunately significantly lower this year. We have heard about deflation, about other VAT accounting rules for imports of goods from outside the European Union. I'd like to ask you two things, Minister. In your opinion, what are the losses on the impact of VAT due to the poor long-term financial policy of the previous government in the subject of drastic increases, excise prices, in particular tobacco products, alcohol or fuel? Unfortunately, it is estimated that this gray zone, which was a dozen percent, already reaches 25% in the case of cigarettes this year. Is it precisely because VAT is charged on the combined excise duty that there is no source of this under-impact on the state budget because of the large area that is extending precisely in the fiscal sector? I would also like to ask, because there was a lot of talk about it, that such a prescription, a good prescription for VAT fraud, would be a reverse VAT payment mechanism, whether this mechanism actually worked out here. The reform entered into force probably in 2013 during the previous term of office. From the famous Annex 11 to the Act, the list of these goods which are covered by this reverse mechanism is increasing and increasing. We know that there have been some problems with the good implementation of this mechanism in previous years. Didn't it contribute to some degree, or isn't it the source of that? [[♪ The bell ♪]] this irresistibility Is this underestimation of the VAT impact here in this dimension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The discussion of the amendment we are making is a good opportunity to appeal for reason - for reasonableness in planning expenditure on the implementation of electoral promises. Poland is almost 38 million citizens, among others. entrepreneurs, employees, pensioners. If you overcharge, they will pay, not the state, not us who are sitting here. In fact, it will affect those who go to work every morning and work to lead their lives as such. That is why I appeal once again for reason and reason. I also have three questions about this completely unnecessary one, also in my view, amendment. First: How did the savings on current expenditure of October 2015 reach PLN 6 billion at the end of December? We all know that at the end of the year these budgetary revenues are the biggest and this is a good time for budgetary revenue, while here we have such a rather incomprehensible trend. I also have a second question, more specific. The draft amendment in Part 27: Computerisation provides for a reduction of current expenditure in this part by PLN 6.5 million. This reduction occurred in the purchase of other services. I'd like to ask you where the savings come from. Is this the effect of overestimated plans, or has specific expenditure been abandoned? I have another question for you about buying coal. I wanted to ask what the government would do with this coal, because, as we all know, of course, most companies are State Treasury companies or related companies, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whereas in Poland there are also private coal companies and this tampering with state companies these private companies simply melts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u183	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are meeting today, three weeks before the end of the year, to revise the budget bill, to revise, even though my previous speakers have proved without delay that this amendment is not necessary. Most worryingly, during this revision you plan to increase the deficit by almost PLN 4 billion. I'd call these actions operational, but they're very disturbing. The question arises: What kind of strategy do the Minister and the Government of Law and Justice have for financing electoral promises for the coming years? Are we going back to the excessive deficit procedure? Are we giving up the stability of public debt? Do we give up such values as the relatively high rating of our country or the relatively low interest rate of our Treasury bonds? In what way, in the longer term - 5, 6, or perhaps 10 years - do you want to deliver on your electoral promises, finance the fulfillment of these promises? Because the simple methods you have applied today, even if you move funds from the LTE licence fee to the next year, will quickly end. And then what? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u186	Minister! I would like to ask the question, how is it that the revenues from the LTE auctions, which were obtained in 2015, for reasons that were not stated in the justification, are not in revenue for 2015, only in 2016, while the possible expenditure related to material reserves, which we do not yet know what they will be and what they will be for - because Prime Minister Szydło is talking about interventional coal concentration - we find out what they will go for - whose amounts we do not know, but will be in 2015. So, how is it that what we know about 9 billion is not in the 2015 budget for some unknown reasons, and what we do not know is in 2015 and is to be in some more indeterminate amount when it comes to spending? I would prefer that the revenues that are known be known this year, and the revenues that are not known, be in the next year, so that expenditure on material reserves, if they concern mainly the financing of mining in 2016 and the rescue of its liquidity, will be in line with the 2016 target, and the revenue from LTE, which is the revenue of 2015, will be included in the revenue of the 2015 budget. The budget and the year 2015 and 2016 would then be more transparent, and so we should basically start to look at the budgets of 2015 and 2016 together, to sum them up and look at them together, because we are really starting to get mixed up with the confusion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u187	Thank you very much. Thus, the list of members of the vote has been exhausted. Mr Paweł Szalamach, Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u188	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! The questions have been repeated a bit. I'll try to answer as many of them as possible. There was a bunch of questions about reserves. Strategic reserves are built when raw material prices are low. This is a good time to do this when, historically, the lowest price of hard coal has been in place for 10 years. Therefore, I believe that just as Americans buy crude oil, when this price is low, Poland can do the same. On the other hand, I do not know the precise data that were asked here, how much coal has been purchased so far. This is a question for Minister Tchórzewski, Minister of Energy. The Sejm will, of course, exercise some control over this expenditure, as will the report on the implementation of the budget, and then this demand will be met. The fact is that in these last weeks of the year it would be difficult to obtain such permission temporarily, which is why we are asking for the waiver of this obligation. As regards the repeated questions concerning the LTE auction, since the booking decisions were not issued due to legal risks and the analysis of those legal risks related to the complaint of persons or entities that won the auction - if the decisions were not issued, and also the other way - and this process is dragging on, we are not normally in a position to take this into account and enter it in the world. There have been repeated questions about the impact and planning of actions for the coming years, while this novel concerns 2015. I would be happy to open another debate, a debate, answering questions about our intentions. I signaled them in my original speech about these regulatory solutions, about the computerization specialty. I didn't really dwell on it in detail, of course, but they will. If each one of them shows up here, it's bound to happen. As regards the risk of exceeding the 3% threshold and the repercussions of this, it is usually here that the European Commission was threatening Poland. We are the Polish government, we do not like to be put rhetorically in such a situation. I'd ask you to change your language. Both Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki and I... [[Applause]] We are a Member State of the Union, we are pursuing a policy based on our priorities, our agenda. Both Prime Minister Morawiecki and I met with Commissioner Dombrovskis. I will not speak about the meeting of Prime Minister Morawiecki. [[And what he said after that.]] In my case, for an hour, a very meaningful, honest conversation, I didn't hear any threat. Perhaps other people have heard this threat, but nothing like that, believe me, was. We will try to carry out our ambitious family agenda so as not to exceed this threshold, the 3% limit. Deficiencies. And we don't think it's a populist electoral promise, but really an investment in the future of our country, [[Applause]] because if the actions of the last few years are analysed, emigration is of course noticeable and completely different pro-natalist behaviours of Polish citizens who live in the UK or Ireland, where support for families is much greater. We note the situation that a large part of Polish families, especially in the countryside, is excluded from today's support system, for example as part of the logic of the PIT tax. They feel treated like second-class citizens. We want to change that. Therefore, we will consistently strive to implement this programme, hoping that some of you will change your mind about it and perhaps you will also be involved in improving our solutions or making some amendments that would improve them. I think I answered these blocks of basic questions because they were about repercussions, 3%, LTE and reserves. [[How much coal do we have? How much coal do we have in stock?]] [[The Minister doesn't know.]] Madam President, this question is for the Minister of Energy. And from the benches... [[Then we'll have it in writing.]] There will be a written reply. On the other hand, I would expect from the Civil Platform benches for a few more weeks, perhaps for a few more weeks some restraint in speaking on coal issues and what you did in Silesia on coal issues. A little more modesty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u189	Thank you very much, Minister. Now you have a voice... no, you have no Undersecretary of State. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject at first reading a draft government bill amending the budget law for 2015 and a draft government law amending the law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the budget law. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the 2016 budget law (print No 67). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Government's draft Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016 is a project which includes solutions amending or modifying the principles resulting from various legal acts which are intended to contribute, on the one hand, to improving the possibility of spending from the State budget in the framework of the implementation of tasks which are imposed on different state institutions so that these tasks can be carried out and, on the other hand, so that these tasks can be carried out within the framework of the public resources available to them. It is therefore necessary to make some modification in the scope of the law in force in order to obtain such savings at the expense of modifying the rules relating to certain areas of government activity or the performance of various tasks. And here, as part of these changes, which involve obtaining some savings, allowing for other use of public funds for other tasks and priorities which the government puts in the 2016 budget, it was necessary to make some modifications, among others. as regards the method of calculation of write-downs, deductions for the share benefit fund. This solution has once again appeared in the so-called. the around budget law, and this category also includes the law currently under debate in the High House. It is proposed to leave the write-down base, the base from which these write-downs are made, at the level of the previous years. And here these dates are different depending on the first time in a given professional group a certain freeze was made on this base from which write-downs are made to an occupational social benefit fund. Given that the de facto obligation to make these write-downs to an occupational social benefit fund concerns individuals in budgetary, public terms, the consequences arising from the so-called. freezing of write-downs in this draft around budget law is estimated at about PLN 200 million. For budgetary units, this is a savings of PLN 75 million as regards write-downs related to the fund, which is created as an occupational welfare fund for teachers, it is the amount of PLN 57 million, and for other entities, it is about PLN 100 million. As I said, a total of about PLN 200 million - these are the estimated savings for the change that is proposed in this around budget law. And as I have pointed out, this is de facto the case for budgetary units, because other entities do not have an obligation to create an occupational social benefit fund. At the same time, in order to obtain certain possibilities to dedicate resources to needs that are a priority, they are the amounts necessary to ensure that the burdens resulting from the so-called "resources" can be met. rigid expenditure, which has been 75% in the state budget for many years, among others. expenditure related to social security and grants to the Social Insurance Fund or the fulfilment of obligations towards pensioners and pensioners, including the announced one-off aid to this social group in 2016 - it was decided to introduce a suspension of the functioning to some extent of the provisions of the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels, which are provisions - Article. 37a - provide the basis for the financing by the Minister responsible for economic affairs of actions related to the promotion of biofuels or other renewable fuels. This solution presented to the High House in this around budget law assumes that this provision is not applied, which involves savings of about PLN 440 million. At the same time, the draft law proposes, as has been the case in the last few years, further financing of nursing internships, medical residents, medical internships, medical internships from the Labour Fund in a decisive part. I say: in a decisive part, because from 2015 onwards also these traineeships are financed directly from the budget law. As regards the financing of these tasks under the Labour Fund, as in previous years, this amount is not increased. These expenses are estimated at about PLN 835 million. At the same time, within the state budget, directly from the state budget it will amount to PLN 182 million. In this way, both of these amounts will provide the possibility of securing medical placements and residencys for all medical school graduates. At the same time, it is not possible to depart from this funding from the Labour Fund in 2016, because the arrangements introduced under the Employment Promotion Act, which the High House introduced in the previous term, in 2015, make it impossible to remove these funds of PLN 835 million from the Labour Fund, which is currently not possible to find such an amount directly in the state budget. At the same time, given the other conditions arising from the Public Finance Act, stabilising the expenditure rule, such a space for the implementation of these expenditures from the state budget currently does not exist, it is not possible. At the same time, in the project so-called. the Around Budget Act, the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016, provides that, in order to enable the proper implementation of the tasks imposed on certain budgetary units, on certain bodies - I am speaking here, with regard to the Minister of the Environment - in order to implement international commitments by making payments to various international organisations whose Republic of Poland is a member, it is possible here to make certain flexibility in the sources of funding in the form of a legal basis, so that in 2016 contributions to certain international organisations can be financed by the Minister of the Environment, not directly by the Minister of the Environment, from its budget, but so that costs can be incurred by the National Environmental Fund. This is the amount, as I said, 49 million PLN. This bill also assumes... Of course, unlike the previous years, there are no solutions in this law that would freeze the payroll fund. I am talking about this because one of the first provisions that you, ladies and gentlemen, can read in the around-the-budget bill is, in effect, a freezing of the basic amount for so-called. Erki, the ministers, the Undersecretaries of the States, but it doesn't involve denying the possibility... [[And the MPs.]] And the MPs. This does not entail any possibility of raising salaries in the remuneration fund for 2016. This is only about equal treatment for all in 2016, as it is also assumed for 2016 that the underlying amounts will be frozen throughout the budgetary sphere and that more than PLN 2 billion will be allocated to raises across the budgetary sphere. Of course, these increases will vary depending on which institution, what are the tasks there, what are the average salaries. Depending on this, of course, the amount of the increase will be dedicated directly by the manager of the unit. Such funds in the budget are also intended to be allocated to the people I was just talking about, but the base amount will remain unchanged since 2008. Why since 2008? This freezing is, in effect, the result of some legislative changes that took place in 2009. The Parliament of that time decided, in the course of its work on the 2009 budget, to withdraw the base amount, the base amount, by 2008, but it did so already during 2009, so that the lack of such correction as I said at the moment would automatically result in this base amount having to be higher. At the same time, the Law on Specific Solutions for the implementation of the 2016 budget provides for the introduction of certain mechanisms to make education spending more flexible, to improve the professional skills of teachers. This is a solution that has been applied over the past few years to this type of task, instead of rigid provisions under the Teacher Charter, where directly, for example. in relation to the founding bodies, I mean the municipalities here, the rules indicate the obligation to create such write-downs and block funds in the budgets of these units of 1% salaries, in simple terms, of teachers' personal salaries. As statistics show from previous years, the budgets of these units have been stiffened, they have been prevented from spending on other purposes, such as those related to the performance of certain educational tasks and, in any event, the funds for professional improvement have been allocated, because they have made very widespread use of access to EU funds and therefore have not used those funds which have had to be rigidly recorded in their budgets at the same time. The same applies to other units, among others. Minister of National Education, who would have to make write-offs of 5 000. the average salary of the intern, such write-offs would have to be rigid, made at the level of the voivodeship. Here the provisions that are proposed reflect the solutions that have been applied in previous years, make the financial economy of these entities more flexible, giving them the opportunity to secure their expenditure on tasks, but also bearing in mind that these entities are using EU funds, so there is no need for such rigid blocking of their plans and expenditure within their budgets. At the same time, in proposals that differ from this law, in a decisive way, apart from the fact that there is no freezing of funds for increases, for salaries in the budgetary sphere, I think it is important to pay attention to the solutions that give the possibility to transfer grants to the pension fund, in case it turns out that more people will go to pensions that are financed under this fund. If there was no such provision, the lack of the legal basis that this law will provide would not be possible to transfer more funding to the KRUS. At the same time, given that next year there will be two events in Poland of a huge size and at the same time significant financial consequences - I am referring here to world youth days and, on the other hand, also events related to the organisation of the NATO Summit - the provisions of the Act propose the possibility of providing grants for the media service of world youth days. The absence of this basis, as in the previous case, would prevent such increased funding, and it is known that such events require additional expenditure and increased service. And at the same time, unlike the solutions that were applied in previous years in various around budget laws, in connection with the second event I mentioned, the organisation of the NATO Summit, this act provides for... Of course, this will also require a number of organisational, preparatory activities, and this will naturally have a certain financial impact. In order to ensure the proper organisation of this event, the organisation of this event is also necessary to provide adequate resources and this law provides that these funds to secure expenditure for this purpose will come from the budget of the Minister of National Defence in the framework of national defence expenditure. These provisions proposed in this Act provide a legal basis which will also allow during the year to move these funds from Part 29 to other parts of the authorising officers who will be involved in the organisation of the event and will therefore bear certain expenditure relating to this purpose. At the same time, an important solution that remains for 2016 is the solution that was first included in the Around Budget Act in 2015. This is a solution which, in principle, obliges local government units to spend at least the amount of money they have charged under educational subsidies on a special organisation of education for children. This solution has been incorporated into the law, which I am talking about at the moment, in connection with a very large number of speeches addressed to both the Minister of Finance, but also at the stage of work taking place in the Council of Ministers or in the Council of Ministers, the proposals of a number of institutions, associations which have asked very much to repeat this solution also in 2016, recognising that the absence of this solution will deprive children to whom these measures should be addressed, appropriate safeguards and that these measures may be directed towards other expenditure, including in the framework of educational expenditure, but will not be targeted. This is primarily about children with disabilities, which require this particular organisation of science. This is why such a solution is also included in this bill, which is currently being debated by the High House. These solutions also provide for some technical solutions, which are solutions that enable the proper implementation of the state budget in the framework of 2016 and which do not allow for transfers of expenditure in certain institutions, among others. in the Labour Fund, where such changes without an opinion or without a positive position of the Minister of Finance could disrupt the proper implementation of the budget and achieve the proper outcome of the public finance sector, which was also widely mentioned here in the debate on the 2015 budget novel. I think that, in addition to these technical solutions, there are solutions to the way the finance minister and local government units transmit different information, where the electronic form will be used instead of the paper form. This will also allow, which is obvious and natural and does not seem to arouse any controversy, to achieve some savings in the implementation of the budget in part 19 supervised by the Minister of Finance. Finally, the last thing I would like to draw the attention of the High House is to introduce solutions to allow pre-financing of certain expenditure under EU programmes in cases where the programme itself may not have provided for this, but given that the beneficiaries of these programmes without such pre-financing from the State budget could not cope with the allocation of appropriate amounts for the implementation of these programmes, this law provides the legal basis for such advances from the State budget for the implementation of these Union programmes to be transferred. Of course, then the funds will return to the state budget, when the Union will return funds to Poland after these programmes have been cleared and then they will directly enter the state budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u191	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item he would listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Tadzio!]] [[Coffee on the bench, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I've been honored... In fact, the task I am facing is quite easy, because a very broad and very thorough review of this law, which we have just heard, makes it easier for us to do so. However, on behalf of my club, I would like to present my position and highlight some things from the extensive scope of this law, a complementary law, a law which is an essential component of this major change - we have just heard it - and a draft budget for 2016. I would focus primarily on the change in the Teacher Card Act. We have heard here a description, it is very important, it is very important information to make the resources allocated to vocational training more flexible, improving teachers. I would like to point out, indeed, that the practice and experience that is involved in our Polish education has shown that a significant part of the funds that were planned in the budgets was not used. An example here is expenditure, e.g. in voivodships, which were half, twice as low. Hence the provisions in this Act, which set the lowest limit of 0.5% planned annual appropriations for the remuneration of teachers. So far, there was only the upper limit, which was 1%. I also consider it important and worth emphasising the proposal to amend the Law of 23 December 1999 on the formation of remuneration in the national budgetary sphere. We propose to freeze, as we have just said, the base amount at the level of 2008. Indeed, this is because the freezing applies to the so-called. Ercs, that is, those who have pretty well. On the other hand, and this is very important, about PLN 2 billion is the amount to be allocated to the long-awaited increase in salaries so-called. Budgets. We've got signals... The symbol of this official, often very pejorative, does not reflect the challenges and realities of administration and the budgetary sphere. Requirements have gone up, it's hard work, demanding, constantly changing conditions, and it's paid very, very low. This is, moreover, largely the case for government and administration. This is a difficult topic, it is very difficult to talk about, because from each side there is screaming, while high-end specialists, and it is very difficult to find such people, and it is very high and very responsible, prominent... I'm staying here for a while, Mr. Marshal, but the biggest rotation, ladies and gentlemen, the biggest rotation, is huge in the Ministry of Finance. [[And in the Seym.]] Very capable, after excellent schools people come only to work to learn something for a short time. They have a résumé and go to work for huge money for private companies. We must have the courage to face this subject. I think it's going to be the courage of the party to make this difficult subject... I would propose to suspend disputes and disputes, including quotations, because it is in our interest, in the interests of the state. Such a debate is needed. I'd like to speak in my short speech, and I've got a minute and a half left to tell you about health, because it's connected. I am looking at Minister Zembala because this is indeed a subject of health care. It is worth noting - 835 million PLN, such is the underfunding. There's a lot missing about all the medicine, but the problem is that there's no doctors, no nurses, no midwives. The average age of a Polish nurse is over 40 years. This is a dramatic situation and perspective, and this is about specialists, so post-graduate training, specialization and residency. PLN 835 million from the Labour Fund. Suffice it to say that, in this context, 700 million in active forms of combating unemployment must be impressive and show how dramatic this situation is and what effort we make from this source, which should not really fund this very important social goal. 21 seconds, time for summary and request. To conclude my brief speech, I thank the Minister for giving me the service, because this exhibition was very thorough and very precise. I would like to express my hope that this bill will not cause excessive negative emotions, and that the High House will kindly [[♪ The bell ♪]] will address the proposed solutions, which will allow the project to proceed as quickly as possible. I'm not looking for a riot. I'm looking for a peaceful discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u193	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska has the floor on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u194	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the speech by Mr Cymanski, who spoke on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, there is a picture of how the point of view changes with regard to the seat point. And I'd like to... Mr Cymanski has the right, but I think that since he spoke on behalf of the club, the club fully shares this opinion on the around budget law. Has it changed that you're praising it today? Thus, the solution to the Teacher's Charter, previously strongly criticised. Today nothing has changed with regard to the submission - up to 1% flexibility, as proposed by the Platform. So? When you were in opposition, you blamed it. Today, when you submit this project - such as the solution of the Civic Platform - you praise it. It's a shame you haven't reached history. The write-down to the Social Benefits Fund and the reduction of the basic amount are nothing more than the repetition of the submission, the provision of the Around Budget Act submitted by the Civic Platform. So this delight is also a delight in these presentations, and I am glad that there is no criticism and that you have finally come to your senses and praise it. Case of PLN 2 billion to increase salaries in the public finance sector, while freezing remuneration for managers since 2008. After all, this project and this 2 billion PLN is what was prepared in the draft budget law for 2016 by the government of the Civic Platform, a jot in jota. You haven't changed a thing. Very well, then, we accept this thank you, Mr Cymanski, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. On the other hand, Mr Bieńkowska spoke about the salaries in the administration and the large fluctuations in staff, and even recently, when Mrs Bieńkowska spoke about the salaries of Undersecretaries of State in net amounts of about 6 000. PLN and responsibility for the budget - and then she said - regional development, multi-billion-dollar, it was a big criticism on your part. You didn't want to hear anything about it. He changed his point of view because he changed his seat point. With regard to the Labour Fund - how Mrs Rafalska thundered that this fund was used for post-graduate training, specialized training for dentists, nurses and residents. Today's okay. So what changed? We are pleased that you accept this. The rules are changing. There is a new solution regarding the possibility of a pension payment from the budget for pensions that they will apply for to replace structural pensions, funding from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, contributions to the European Space Agency. We can argue whether the Minister of the Environment should not find money for this. The organisation of the North Atlantic Pact Summit in Poland - it is the government of the Civic Platform that agreed with its partners in 2014 and that it will take place in Warsaw. You accept funding from the MON budget, but there is no definition of the upper limit. We ask: How much will it cost? Because when we were doing a climate conference at the National Stadium, it was 150 million PLN. Now how much? We're not gonna talk. The only other option is to finance tasks requiring a special organisation of science, and that is what we agree to. But in a situation where the Minister of Finance will be able to change the financial plan of the agricultural property resources of the Treasury - such authorisation by the State you give this law to the Minister of Finance - we want to ask whether this 810 million PLN will affect or not. You've blocked the sale of land. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So is it going to be 800 million? We also have comments on pre-financing and reimbursement for beneficiaries until the final balance of the European Union's funds for these projects has been paid, because there is no upper limit to the extent to which this funding will be provided. Recent cases are the exclusion from public procurement of two tasks for which public funds, NATO Summit and World Youth Days in Cracow will be spent. We also want to hear how much funding will be allocated to this support. The government's right is to prepare the budget it believes. But we have shown the elements, the ones that we are asking about, and we are glad that Mr Cymanski said: The platform was 90% right in the submission of the 2016 budget. You've replicated it. There's nothing new. The point of view has changed with regard to the seat point. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u195	Thank you, Commissioner, but please do not extend the speaking time. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor now. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the around budget laws related to 2016, we would like to start by drawing attention to the so-called. the base amount, which has remained unchanged since 2008. The base amount is mainly associated with the so-called. an era, mostly with executive positions. But these aren't just executive positions, because this amount applies to everyone. If the governing party has been saying since the beginning of the election campaign that a clear wage increase is needed, then if it wants to make this clear wage increase in the budgetary sphere, not through some transfers of 2 billion to selected elements of the budgetary sphere, closer to unknown or known, but selective, then we should only discuss whether it is worth discussing whether a change in the underlying amount, an increase in the underlying amount is worthwhile. If some of the payouts are so called. erki are too high, then you should not all punish the absence of a change in the underlying amount, just change the multipliers, simply reduce them. Then the era won't have such a clear salary. However, not changing the base amount since 2008 is such a little political fear of moving on to this topic. The next rule doesn't change her. I think it's gonna be seven, eight or nine years when the base amount is intact. In our view, we should not be afraid of this subject, it should be addressed. In terms of traineeships and training, the situation in health care is dramatic in terms of the lack of generation replacement. With these nurses, who are 41 years of age on average, there is the same situation as with demographics in general in society, because the average age of women has increased to 37 years - I quote the demographic Yearbook 2014 - and the average age of men is also about 41 years old. So nurses have the same average age as the average age of men in this country. It's just that society's getting old. And just as Law and Justice are trying to block adverse demographic changes in family benefits, so here we need to invest simply in new medical staff, because inevitable ageing leads to reduced productivity, including in terms of social economy. We are simply facing a significant decline in the quality of services. As regards pension benefits related to the existing structural pensions of the agricultural modernisation agencies, the Agricultural Market Agency, we would like to see the exact effects of these changes, the transition from the structural framework to pension benefits not only in 2016. We would like this problem to be recognised comprehensively, which is a social phenomenon, why, whether it will increase, whether it will expire and what will have consequences simply for finance not only in one year, but in its entirety, the truth. This aspect of pension benefits is, in a sense, a confession of errors that structural pensions have proved not a very good solution, since we now have to revise around-budget laws and look for money for pension benefits. We're also... We would like to go back to the lack of a solution for biofuels. It's the same freezer as a freezer with a base amount. The next year isn't about the subject. There were big promises, lots of people invested money. So? There's no such thing as promoting biofuels. We do not necessarily think that this is the most strategic branch of the economy that needs to be supported from the budget, but it is not the best solution to put the problem away and freeze over and over again. As for the organisation of the North Atlantic Summit and the organization of world youth days, these are so spectacular events that not only ministries themselves, not only resorts themselves should participate in them, but it is the prestige of the entire Polish state. Money for co-organising such important events should be included in the state budget as a central budget. There's no discussion about two sentences here. We would also like internships, when it comes to nurses and doctors, to be resolved in a more comprehensive way and to eventually find their place in the problems of the Ministry of Health, because the solution that is temporary and which year after year is [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the form of a around-budget bill, it is not a good solution either, because it does not give a long-term perspective for these doctors and for those interns and for students who are going to be these nurses or are going to be these doctors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u197	Thank you, sir. Mrs Stępień, the Modern Club, is now speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the draft Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016 aims to reduce the expenditure of the State budget as well as the correct implementation of the Budget Law for 2016. With regard to the article. 1 of the draft law, which talks about making spending on teachers more flexible, we only hope that the teaching staff will benefit from it, because already today the main problem of many poorer municipalities is the lack of resources to educate teachers. The result is a lower level of student learning outcomes. The teacher who raises his qualifications transfers them directly to the student, transfers his knowledge and skills to the work he does, expresses them through better... Students express it through better learning. The student's interests and abilities are stimulated. They are better prepared to live in society, to move on the labour market, but above all to see themselves as a person with their own self-esteem. Therefore, I would refer to Confucius, who says: Whoever nurtures the knowledge he acquires, and who gains the new one continually, he may be the teacher of others. With regard to the Article. 13th draft law I am pleased that on 1 December the Council of Ministers decided to supplement the draft law which allows or regulates the financing of persons requiring individual learning as well as persons with disabilities. This was usually done in such a way that local authorities used these funds from subsidies charged to children because of their disability for various other educational expenses, and sometimes and not only for these purposes. The next item is Art. 14 draft law. In order to make major social changes, you need to have a strong and healthy economy, a free market that allows you to develop initiative and does not cut anyone's wings, simple and clear rules of action, smart support by the state for development directions. It's them, not promises, who create jobs and increase wages. The Government's draft around budget law does not take into account the interests of domestic entrepreneurs. Modern considers that the draft law does not take into account the resources available to the Minister responsible for the economy for promotion and production, the use of bio-components and liquid biofuels, aid to bio-component manufacturers and producers of liquid fuels and biofuels, aid to bio-component manufacturers and fuel producers, financing of parking fees for liquid biofuels vehicles, the purchase of new liquid biofuels vehicles and the promotion of green transport. Your draft budget law removes the stimulator for the development of the biofuels and biocomponents sector, which greatly reduces development. Your actions lead to biofuels and biocomponents not being able to further develop, improve the quality of their products and services, to go abroad, being more competitive. Polish companies do not have such capital, technology, sales networks as their competitors from Western Europe. If they are to accumulate capital faster and grow faster, they need to create better, not worse conditions, better than in countries richer than Poland, and you limit them. In view of the above, the Modern will vote in favour of referral to committee work to make minor corrections, after which we will support the project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u199	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the so-called project. A around budget law according to print No 67. This law, called around the budget, is a follow-up to the budget law. What does this project contain? It standardizes many records that have already occurred before, e.g. This time on the Teacher's Charter, including the financing of teacher training, and the basic amount for social benefits write-offs at the level of 1 January 2012. It assumes funding from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management of membership contributions, our participation in the European Space Agency, as well as in other international organisations, and this is the amount of about PLN 100 million. In the public finance sector, it proposes to freeze the basic amount for managers of state positions and apply the base amount set out in the Budget Act for 2008, i.e. The amount of PLN 1766,46, and the freezing of the basis for the calculation of the write-down on the social benefit fund, of course, by taking as the amount of the underlying values of 2011. Many controversy has been raised by the PiS's proposal to finance postgraduate internships and specializations of doctors, dentists, nurses, midwives, as well as partly residency for graduates from 2012 and 2015. You have always asked from Law and Justice whether the Labour Fund is intended to create new jobs and activate the unemployed or to fund the health deficit. I am directing this question now to the government, because I remember perfectly well, Minister Elżbieta Rafalska, who has repeatedly asked this question, has already been mentioned today. The project provides for the provision of funds in the budget law for the organisation of the NATO Summit, including defence expenditure, as well as funding by the budget of the media service state of the world youth days. The proposed law also regulates certain organisational and technical principles, which are necessary. And yes, it provides the possibility of electronic transmission of information to local government units on the level of subsidies, budget subsidies, obliges information on the reduction of payments in the financial plan of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury, which requires the Minister's approval then, provides the possibility to transfer additional funds from the budget to the Pension and Rent Fund for payment of benefits, if necessary. The bill was subject to public consultation. Many comments have been made, some of the provisions and proposals for amendments have been denied. A great deal of comments have been received from organisations working for people with disabilities. These relate to the financing of the learning of disabled pupils. This is about obliging local governments in a sense to direct funds to schools that have such pupils. This entry was in the Around Budget Act for the current year, 2015. It has been very well received and used in the education of people with disabilities. I think we all know very well that this issue is still a very sensitive topic in Poland. In the area of education for people with disabilities, which is a lot to say here, we stand clear from other European countries and therefore let us not spoil what has already been applied and what has so far worked out. So I would like to ask you to restore this record from this year also for the next year or permanently for the following years, but I think it would already be in the basic law about the education system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u201	Thank you very much. Three Members have joined the task of questioning. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Mr Paweł Arndt, Civic Platform. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft budget bill is a government project. As such, he had to go through a series of public consultations. I have a public consultation report in front of me. Many organisations and institutions have forwarded their comments to the project and I would like to tell you what the consultation looked like. For example, the Confederation of Leviathan made its demands. What is the result of these demands? The comments were not taken into account. Comments were made by the Polish Teachers' Association, comments were not taken into account. The comments from NSZZ.Solidarity were also not taken into account. Association of Polish Scouts - attention not included, National Trade Unions Agreement - comments cannot be taken into account. I have a question for the Minister. Were there even any requests that were taken into account? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I know that Law and Justice went to the slogan elections to ask people a lot of things, and I guess he does, but he doesn't listen to them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u203	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club. I don't see you. [[Voice from the room: He's coming, he's coming.]] Oh, here he comes. I'm sorry. [[I'm here.]] Member's time: 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u204	Dear Marshal, I have a question for the Minister. Once again, I would like to ask the Minister to tell us what appropriations will be spent in the budget, among others. to organize the NATO Summit in Warsaw and support for Krakow on the occasion of World Youth Days. I have two more questions. They may not be directly related to the around-budget bill, but they relate to government plans, among others. on VAT. You promised that basic VAT would be reduced from 23% to 22%, and we have no information in the 2016 budget discussion. There were also State declarations on the reduction [[♪ The bell ♪]] VAT on children's clothes, so colloquially I will describe this topic. So what action has the Law and Justice Government taken in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is very short. To whom and what will it serve, and what social consequences will it bring to stop financing the promotion of biofuels? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u207	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'd like to ask the Minister a question. Has the economic impact of not supporting biofuels and bio-components, including labour market impacts, been analysed? In general, it is not good that very often, under the influence of momentary changes in budgetary policy, we are making significant changes in the area of economic instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u209	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Would the Minister like to speak? Please, undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Finance Hanna Majszczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'm gonna answer the questions according to the order of questioning. As regards the first question, Mr Arndt's question is whether any comments from the public consultation have been taken into account: yes. That's the rule of the article. 13, which introduces a continuation of the solutions applied in 2015, the arrangements related to the obligation for local government units to allocate funds of at least the amount in which they were charged in the education grant, is the solution resulting from the inclusion of comments submitted during the public consultation. As regards Mrs Skowronska's questions, I will say that the expenditure that is estimated in connection with the organisation of the NATO Summit is about 156 million, and in terms of world youth days, it is about 40 million secured for the Lesser Poland Voivodeship. In its budget it has about 30 million, about 10 million will be provided in the planned reserve. In addition, in the draft budget, several million zlotys are transferred to the Minister of Transport to organize journeys, to increase train traffic for the participants of this event. As far as questions relating to the tax on goods and services are concerned, they will be answered in writing. As far as the last two questions concerning the biofuel promotion fund are concerned, I would say that, in fact, the impact given in the explanatory memorandum, about 440 million, are the effects that would result in a stiffening of the write-downs to this fund, which will be used for other purposes, but, in principle, there is no translation, of the effects on the labour market, the effects on the employment of people linked to the biofuel market, since the institution of this biofuel promotion fund has not moved, it can be said from the moment it was established in law. For a long time, agreements have been made with the European Commission as it was a project requiring technical notification. De facto, because it was not a project that started to function, there are no effects that would reverse or hinder its functioning, and therefore there are no effects that you have asked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u211	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the 2016 budget law, contained in print No 67, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 24 hours 17 min 35]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau submitted a draft resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications. The design is print number 92. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Bureau of the Sejm has submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is print number 93. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, the Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Public Finance Act. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. At the meeting of the Senior Convention, there was an objection to the completion of the agenda - today, I add. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: The report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Public Finance Act (Prints 72 and 91), today, I stress, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 238 Members voted against, 213 Members voted against, 1 Member abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. We will consider this point as the last one today. We're coming back... Formal proposals have been made by Members. Mr Sławomir Neumann, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal motion, Mr. Marshal, to order a recess and call the Senior Convention... [[Ten minutes.]] ...so that the Convention may consider a draft resolution which the Platform wishes to propose and put on the agenda of today's deliberations - a resolution of the Polish Parliament calling on the President of the Republic of Poland to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal... [[Applause]] [[We're against it.]] .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Marshal, we are dealing with an unprecedented situation - two judgments of the tribunal, which clearly define the legal situation and give the opportunity to repair and restore constitutional order. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland cannot be passive and dumb in this situation. It cannot be that the first person in the State of the President of the Republic openly and openly denies the judgments of the Tribunal, the judgments of an independent court. It cannot be that representatives of a party that has a majority in the Sejm and - it sounds like a grim joke - in the name of law and justice - say that judgments of independent courts in Poland do not need to be implemented. [[Applause]] It can't be that the Seym allows it. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, we are submitting a draft resolution and we are asking for a break and the Senior Convention to be able to proceed on this resolution today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u213	Thank you very much. The High Sejm, if it were an application only for a break, it would be in accordance with Article. Paragraph 184. Point 3 (1) is the formal request for a break and the convening of the Senior Convention. I can't take this as a formal proposal, it was the Senior Convention just now, and it was possible to look into these matters. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, a formal proposal. There you go. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: How can you do that?]] [[What's this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u214	Thank you very much. Madam President! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I request a formal request to change the procedure and to include such a point on the agenda: information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the activities of...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u215	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u216	... The government's Legislature Center and this... [[Break and Senior Convention.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u217	Mr President, please leave the speaker...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u218	...why so far unpublished...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u219	...because it's not a formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u220	...the Constitutional Court's ruling...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u221	Sir, I'm gonna have to... [[Scandal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u222	...in spite of your duty to the President... [[Voice from the room: scandal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u223	...sir, take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u224	...resting. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Everyone... [[The Marshal shuts down Mr Krzysztof Brejza's microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u225	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are interfering with the Parliament's deliberations. [[But why do you treat me like that?]] [[You're interfering.]] Mr President, this is not a formal proposal. Mr President, please leave the speaker. [[Applause]] [[Please...]] Mr President, I repeat, please read the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm carefully. This is not a formal conclusion. [[The law is broken, Art. 231 Criminal Code.]] Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. [[Voice from the room: Do you want to take over my application and ask...]] We return to item 3 of the agenda... [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't disturb the agenda. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. [[The Member wishes to speak.]] There was a motion in the discussion to reject the bill... [[When he was a vice marshal, he let everything go.]] ...at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print No 62, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. There were 168 votes against and 285 abstentions. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. We are returning to the review of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the budget law for 2015. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska in what way? [[Formal conclusion.]] [[What?]] Formal conclusion. Just remember, this is a formal conclusion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u226	I'm filing a formal motion to your marshal for an adjournment and a convocation of the Senior Convention, so I've filled it out. And now I justify it. I would like to ask the marshal to ask Prime Minister Beata Szydło to inform the High House why the judgment of the Constitutional Court has not been published. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Bravo!]] [[Prime Minister, today, we're gonna make it.]] In this respect, it would be understandable that for each proposal there is the same measure. One motion for the appointment of judges was announced in an express mode, I don't know, 15 minutes or 10 minutes, and the other proposals are pending, the judgment of the Constitutional Court... [[The warden needs to be asked.]] ...waiting for publication. It would therefore be time for the Prime Minister to prepare and inform the High House why this judgment has not been published. There's another situation we're dealing with. This lack of publication can bring an administrative action against any citizen. That sentence should be published. [[Scandalous and insolent.]] We want to remove some responsibility from the Prime Minister, so today we want her to tell us why the judgment of the Court was not published by the Government's Legislative Centre. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you once again... [[Where's the Prime Minister?]] [[Can you do that?]] ...art. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1: formal applications shall include requests for interruption, adjournment or closure of the sitting, not an application for interruption and convening of the Senior Convention. The senior convention was before the vote began, so please treat... [[Where's the Prime Minister?]] ...it's a warning because I won't allow formal requests... [[But there was a word: and.]] ...in this way, because I do not believe that these are formal proposals. We'll proceed with the vote. [[How about a break?]] [[Where's the Prime Minister?]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal for rejection at first reading of the draft law amending the budget law for 2015, contained in print 65, would like to raise his hand and press the button. [[Interruption isn't a break?]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. Two hundred and twenty-three Members, against 237 Members, abstained from voting. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred the bill to the Public Finance Commission for consideration. We are returning to the review of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the budget law. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion for rejection at first reading of a draft law amending the Law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the Budget Act, contained in print No 66, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 181 Members, against 272, abstained from voting. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred the bill to the Public Finance Commission for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification (print No 92). Following the introduction of the bill amending the Penal Code, contained in prints 32 and 32-A, there was a need to set up an Extraordinary Commission for changes in the codification and the choice of its composition. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, presented a draft resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the abovementioned Extraordinary Commission. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the first reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution immediately. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print #92 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 453 Members voted in favour, no one voted against, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for changes in codification. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the establishment of the Polish Inter-Paramental Union Group (print No 78). High Izbo! In line with previous practice at the beginning of the new term of office of the Sejm, it is necessary to reactivate the Polish Inter-Paramental Union Group. In accordance with the Statute of the Interparliamentary Union, the entire parliament or national group representing this Parliament may be a member of this organisation. In the previous terms of office of the Sejm and the Senate were represented in the Interparliamental Union by the National Group. This group, known as the Polish Interparliamentary Union Group, is reactivated at the beginning of each term of the Sejm and the Senate under the relevant resolutions of the Sejm and the Senate respectively. The Bureau of the Sejm proposes that all members of the 8th term of office of the Sejm should be members of the Polish Interparliamentary Union Group. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the first reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to second reading. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 78, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. The vote was cast by 456 Members, no one voted against, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the creation of the Polish Interparliamentary Union Group. [[Voice from the room: Quite a mobilization.]] We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 93). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 93 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. The vote was cast by 452 Members, no one voted against, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I ask the Secretary to read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u228	I would like to inform you that according to the article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm Marshals of the Sejm convened the first meeting of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications today, i.e. 9 December this year, immediately after the end of item 10 of the agenda, that is after the first reading of the draft law amending the Law of the Penal Code, prints 32 and 32-A, in room 102.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u229	Thank you very much. With regard to the added point, the committee's report, I propose that in the discussion on the added item on the agenda, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min 52 hours 17 min 56]] Please remain in the Chamber for those interested in further deliberations. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Lead us!]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Penal Code Act (prints no. 32 and 32-A). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to present a draft law amending the Penal Code Act of 6 June 1997. The case specifically concerns one article - Article. 102 of the Penal Code, which governs the extension of the limitation period for criminal proceedings. I would like to remind you that the current provision of this article under the Law of 20 February 2015 is as follows: 101, proceedings have been initiated against a person, the criminality of the criminal offence he committed is punishable by the expiry of 5 years after the end of that period. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u231	Excuse me, sir. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, please leave the room for those who are not interested in the proceedings. [[Call the guards to escort them out!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u232	Thank you, Marshal, for taking advantage of your prerogatives, and I will continue. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Friendship does not listen.]] [[Maybe your friend.]] The limitation institution shall be a statutoryly regulated withdrawal from prosecution, conviction or execution of a penalty in the event of the expiry of a significant period of time. It is also a negative procedural condition, i.e. the exclusion of proceedings which result in proceedings not being initiated and the proceedings initiated are terminated. The limitation of criminality, even though it is a structural element of the substantive standard of criminal law referred to in Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution, always means a specific break from the link between crime and punishment. If it is accepted that the embodiment in Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution has formulated the principles that criminal liability is subject only to those who have committed a criminal offence under threat by the law in force at the time of its execution, and which is the consequence of such a defined standard that those who have committed such an act bear the legal consequences - liability - it should be considered that the legislator could not assume that the liability for the offence and the statute of liability are equivalent values because, under criminal law, the institution of limitation, however universally it forms part of the order of criminal law, is treated as part of a certain criminal policy and not as a constitutionally protected right of the citizen. It does not have an expense of limitation. On the contrary, the citizen has the right to expect criminal liability under the rules laid down in Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution. On the other hand, it cannot expect the benefits that it could enjoy in connection with an infringement of the law because of such and not another criminal policy, because it may be subject to modifications and changes depending on the nature of the risks associated with specific crimes. In this sense, before or even prior to the initiation of criminal proceedings, the complainant must not assume that these elements of the legal rule - the legal order - relating to the criminality of acts which do not constitute constitutionally protected rights will not change. Therefore, in the event of a criminal offence, of course if the offence was considered to be a criminal offence at the time of the offence, the limitation period cannot be determined. Moreover, the Polish and foreign doctrine does not exclude even the possibility of tightening the sentence in relation to crimes which are not subject to final judgments. A different approach to the institutions of limitation would lead to a kind of bonus for those criminals who are persistently taking action to avoid liability. Therefore, with regard to the limitation period which had not expired before the final judgment, it cannot be argued that the extension of the limitation would make the criminal's situation worse because, in committing the offence, he could not foresee that the limitation period would change. The amendment of the limitation period relating to criminal liability should be linked to criminal policy which is part of criminal law. This is the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 25 May 2004. As the Court held in another judgment of 15 October 2008, the extension of the limitation period for offences in respect of which proceedings against a person have been initiated does not prejudice the principle of protecting citizens' confidence in the law contained in the Article. 2 constitutions. Such a conclusion finds a strong axiological justification. The expectations of the perpetrator that, after the expiry of the time fixed by the legislator in advance, he will no longer be prosecuted should not be considered as a priority as a sign of confidence in the State and must give way to the State's interest in implementing criminal policy adequate to the changing reality, which was also addressed in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 8 September 2015. This was the request for a preliminary ruling from the Italian Court. The criminal proceedings concerned the Iva Taricco case. In the light of the above, there is no legal or axiological justification for the legislator's decision to shorten the limitation period for criminal proceedings as set out in Article. 1 point 60 of the Law of 20 February 2015 amending the Penal Code Act, and I would like to remind you that the time limits for extending the limitation period from 10 to 5 years have been shortened. This has led, High Izbo, to the remission of some criminal proceedings, and further cases will be statute-barred, including those concerning organised criminal groups. Premiering perpetrators opposes the axiological pronunciation of punishment and liability for acts that violate criminal law. There are no constitutional values behind it, and moreover, this leads to a number of fundamental values being violated, including an important sense of justice from the point of view of the rule of law. This sense of justice enters both the common good and the individual good, the welfare of the victims. This change has not been preceded by any reflection on the functioning of the justice system, as argued by the extremely up-to-date content of the justification for it. Quote: Revision of the article. 102 took place by law of 3 June 2005 for the same reasons as those for which it was added in § Article 1 101 point 2a. The proposal for a project aims to restore the original state. There are no indications which could reasonably justify such a substantial extension of the limitation period for criminal offences against the perpetrators of the selected group. Therefore, since the differentiation of the limitation of criminality falls within the scope of the ordinary legislature's freedom to extend the limitation periods for criminal offences where social harm in the legislator's assessment is relatively greater and an important public interest whose term belongs to the legislator, which is indicated above, is a condition for this extension, when during the periods referred to in Article. 101 § The decision to restore the status of a person under the Law of 3 June 2005 is necessary and necessary. Let me remind you what the content of the article is. 101 § 1 point 1.3. The criminal record ceases if, since the time of his death, 30 years have elapsed: 20 - when the act constitutes another crime, 15 - when the act constitutes a criminal offence punishable by imprisonment exceeding 5 years, 10 - when the act constitutes a criminal offence punishable by imprisonment exceeding 3 years. As for the other offences, the statute of limitations is five years old. High Izbo, change in article. 102 concerns this preliminary version, but I am signaling - of course the High House already knows - that there is an autocorrection to this content of the article. 102. This self-correction is that in the original version, i.e. in print no. 32, the content of the article. 102 was as follows: if during the period provided for in Article. 101 proceedings have been initiated against a person, the criminality of the offence referred to in paragraph 1 (1) (3) shall cease with the expiry of 10 years and, in other cases, with the expiry of 5 years after the end of that period. What does it mean in the legal language to initiate proceedings against a person? It means that the perpetrator of the act has the charge and is a suspect, so it would be important to bring proceedings against the person who already has the charge. On the other hand, in the self-correction of applicants, we have another provision: If during the period referred to in Article. 101, the criminal proceedings have been initiated, the criminality of the offence referred to in paragraph 1 (1) (3) ceases with the expiry of 10 years and, in other cases, with the expiry of 5 years after the end of that period. The difference is that this is the initiation of an in-rem procedure, i.e. there is not yet a person to whom a specific plea has been lodged. There are still some exceptions here, because there may be a situation where there is a refusal to initiate proceedings, there is a complaint brought against the victims, for example. to the court and the court waives this order to refuse to initiate proceedings, ordering the case to be brought, so that the time limit from which this extension period will run, the limitation of criminal proceedings, will be the validity of such a decision of the court. High Izbo! The project is compatible with European Union law, does not have negative financial implications for the state budget and budgets of local government units, nor does this self-correction have such consequences. The draft law does not require notification within the meaning of the provisions of the Council of Ministers Regulation of 23 December 2002 on the functioning of the national system of notification of standards and legal acts. High Izbo! I propose that the project be directed to further work in the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification, possibly to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u233	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] I'm opening a discussion. Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The rapporteur discussed the draft amendment to the Penal Code in a very detailed way, describing the effects of the amendment in a precise manner. The purpose of the amendment or the self-correction is to restore the basis for extending the limitation period of criminality, as laid down in the Article. 106 of the 1969 Penal Code, according to which it constituted the initiation of criminal proceedings in the case and not against a person. Today, the question must be asked what the ruling majority - the Civic Platform and the PSL - was aiming at when, in the last parliamentary term, it decided that criminality should be reduced, the limitation period for a certain category of offences should be reduced. When we begin to analyse this situation, we will find that perhaps this is simply the result of the concerns of some of the communities that have put in place such solutions, so that, in the current functioning of the judiciary, which we know is very slow in time, because we all know that proceedings before law enforcement authorities are characterised by delay, perhaps some of the actions of the former governing coalition are not effectively and fairly judged. The purpose of this amendment is to extend the limitation period for a certain category of criminal offences, which will result in the prosecution and law enforcement authorities being able to pursue the perpetrators of certain criminal offences for a longer period of time. In the explanatory memorandum, a detailed discussion is made of what has been going on in the case of proceedings since the charge against the perpetrator of the crime was brought, i.e. when proceedings are being brought when the prosecution has brought charges against the person concerned. Then we have the procedure and from that period the limitation period begins. On the other hand, we are often faced with a situation in which the accomplice of a particular crime will not be subject to such limitation. If this amendment is implemented, which we propose, the situation of all the accomplices or accomplices of the crime will be the same. In conclusion, this amendment is fully justified and should be adopted. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports it and requests that this project be directed to further work in the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u235	Thank you, sir. Mr Joann Frydrych, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the draft law amending the Penal Code Act, print no. 32 and 32-A. First of all, I would like to point out that the proposed amendment is nothing more than a return to solutions before 20 February 2015, when the amendment of the Penal Code law entered into force. The amendment proposed by the applicants leads to an extension of the time limits laid down in Article. 101 The Penal Code, which are defined in a different way depending on the seriousness of the crime. I would like to point out that, in the case of such an approach to the first plan, there is a need to enable the authorities to complete the procedure, but on the other hand, we must not forget the difficulties of evidence due to the considerable time lag. Nor should arguments relating to the need to avoid the destruction of the process of social inclusion of the perpetrator be lost. In my opinion, the solution provided for in this provision is, and should be, an expression of a compromise, all the more so since the extension of these periods by the 2005 amendment, which is similar to the proposed amendment, has met with reasonable criticism in the literature of criminal law. Professor Romuald Kmiesik stated that the time limits extending the basic limitation periods of the Article. The 101st Penal Code also sets the maximum duration of the criminal trial initiated before its expiry. Extension of time limits from Article. 102 could mean, according to the author, allowing the legislator to allow a criminal trial for all crimes and offences punishable by imprisonment for more than three years, and therefore for the vast majority of offences in the Code, to take place since the initiation of proceedings against a person for a decade. So what about the inevitability of punishment? It must not be forgotten that the limitation periods and, in particular, those resulting from the Article. 102, they also play a disciplinary role for law enforcement and justice to be resolved within a reasonable period of time, in accordance with Article. 6.1 The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The amendment introduced by the Law of 20 February 2015 amending the Law of the Penal Code and some other laws met with the approval of the doctrine. Professor Jarosław Majewski thinks so. It should also be noted that frequent changes do not serve well issues related to the awareness of or lack of unlawfulness. Although a limitation institution is indeed part of a criminal policy, changes in this area should be justified by factual circumstances. It is not the law of the legislator to modify the limitation periods completely and freely, especially at such a high frequency as the next change over a few months. The law should be stable. In the explanatory memorandum of the proposed amendment, there is no specific argument that the deadline laid down in Article must be extended. 102 Penal Code. The proposalor focused, most of the reasons for the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, not on proving the validity of the proposed amendment, but only on the fact that such a change is permitted. The proposer points out that this change has led to the remission of part of the criminal proceedings, but this argument could argue for the exclusion of the limitation in general, since the termination of the proceedings is an immense effect of limitation, no matter how many years laid down. The designer recalls that the termination of cases as a result of the shortening of time limits in Article. 102 The Penal Code violates a number of fundamental values, but as the only example, it only points to a sense of justice, while the essence of limitation is, as mentioned, the disappearance of the need for punishment and the avoidance of unfair convictions related to the blurring of evidence after such a long period of time. It should be borne in mind that the extension of limitation periods for such a significant period should have a solid basis both in circumstances linked to the increase in crime of a particular type, difficulties [[♪ The bell ♪]] the length of proceedings, as well as in a large proportion of cases detected after a long period ending in a conviction. This is not indicated in the justification of the project. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The arguments I have put forward do not allow the Civic Platform Club to vote in favour of this solution in this form. The fight against crime is a priority, but it should be conducted in a rational and effective manner. I do not think that this rationality and effectiveness will strengthen the extension of limitation periods. However, I hope that such a solution will take shape in the work of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u237	Thank you, Member. Mr Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Basiu!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The amendments to the Penal Code Act no. 32, which are being examined today, amending the Article. 102 of the Penal Code by extending the limitation period for persons subject to criminal proceedings for the offence referred to in Article. 101 § 1 point 1 and 3 - the crime of murder, crime, offences punishable by imprisonment over 5 years and offences punishable by imprisonment over 3 years, in which the limitation period for criminal offences from 5 to 10 years will be extended, are, as a rule, a return to the legal status of 2005. That's when. a longer 10-year limitation period has been introduced in the Penal Code. It was the right decision, as the practice of justice shows, to protect citizens effectively, to prosecute criminals effectively. The reduced limitation period for the criminality of acts introduced by the July 2015 amendment, as many of the rules adopted at that time, raises legitimate and legitimate controversy. The July novel, which includes both the Penal Code and the Penal Procedure Code, has introduced a number of changes in the justice system, the consequences of which will continue to be borne by our society for a long time. The changes announced by the Government of Law and Justice to remedy this situation The Kukiz Movement15 welcomes and hopes. It's a good thing we're running out of time to bow to criminals. High Izbo! Let me remind you: the primary purpose of criminal proceedings is to ensure that the perpetrator of the crime is found and held liable and that the person who has not been proven guilty does not bear that responsibility. This purpose is also to be served, among others. the institution of extension of the limitation period, with its broad understanding of the concept of "the proceedings' have been initiated. The purpose of extending the limitation period is to allow criminal proceedings in the event of late disclosure of the offence. In cases punishable by imprisonment for more than three years, i.e. by average and serious crimes, the period when the perpetrator can effectively be held liable will be reasonably extended. On the one hand, these matters are very often of great importance and social shock to public opinion, such as cases against criminal groups, e.g. fuel mafia or so-called crime. white collars, on the other hand, are often complicated and long-lasting. Ladies and gentlemen! The more the crime is punishable by a more severe punishment, the greater the temptation for the defendant or suspect to delay the proceedings. And in such cases criminals should not count on a bonus from the state, they should not hope that, as a result, only the passing of time will not be held liable for criminal liability. It is worth mentioning only that the changes introduced by the July novel benefited, among others. persons responsible for credit fraud, forgery of documents, obstruction of procedure, influence on the witness, injury, theft or other serious and ailmentable to society and the state of crime. In many cases, the investigating court had already had to cancel the proceedings out of office in July 2015. The scale of the phenomenon included thousands, if not tens of thousands of prosecutions and courts throughout Poland. Revision of the provision of the Article. 102 of the Law of 6 June 1997. The Penal Code will in practice eliminate the damage suffered by citizens and the State caused by this liberalisation of the law. In conclusion, the Kukiz Movement15 therefore recommends adopting the amendment to the above mentioned extent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u239	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Posel Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I took part in the honour of presenting the position of the Poselski Club Modern about the draft law amending the Law of the Criminal Code of Printing No. 32 with the autorepair, print No. 32-A. First of all, it must be stated that once again we are dealing with a parliamentary draft amending the law, which is underdeveloped and populist. Incompetence, because an autocorrection was made, so the applicants themselves do not know in fact what they want. Populistic, because it does not bring any new quality, but merely creates appearances of concern for citizens. It should be noted that the limitation periods for criminal penalties can be divided into the basic ones - and these deadlines are contained in Article. 101 of the Penal Code - and additional time limits related to the extension of the limitation period due to the initiation of criminal proceedings against a person. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 This amendment seeks to extend the limitation period for criminal offences due to the initiation of proceedings from the current 5 years up to 10 years and, as the self-correction indicates, regardless of whether the allegations have been made to a particular person and even indicate that it is sufficient to initiate proceedings in rem, i.e. in the case. Such a change results in a de facto extension of the basic limitation period for offences. So the question arises: Why change art? 102? Let's just be clear that we're extending the basic periods of limitation, and let's change the article. 101. Introduce additional limitation periods in Article. 102 The Penal Code is an institution to ensure that the perpetrator can carry out and terminate criminal proceedings against the perpetrator in case of late detection. When proposing a change, the projectors want the criminal trial to take place for not five years, as it is now, but for a decade, and only make it conditional on the initiation of proceedings in the case and not, so far, on the initiation of proceedings against a particular person. I understand that this is a sign of a lack of faith in the effectiveness of law enforcement under the authority of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak, as well as the judicial authorities under the government of the Minister of Justice... [[The predecessors, the predecessors. Your colleagues, your colleagues.]] ... Zbigniew Ziobra. Actually, it's the only way to explain the proposed change. The proposed law also raises constitutional doubts as to the frequency of statutory amendments concerning the limitation of criminal penalties. After all, we are amending the rule that has been in force since 1 July 2015. The excessive frequency of changes can be assessed as, I quote, the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 15 October 2008 which undermines the stability of the legal order and undermines confidence in the State. Act P 32/06. On the other hand, the article. 2 of the proposed amendment to the law proposes to act backwards, which is clearly contrary to the principle of a democratic rule of law, as well as the principle of correct legislation. It should be pointed out that with regard to Article. 102 The Penal Code of Doctrinal Doctrine has repeatedly formulated positions indicating the ambiguity of this provision, but the ambiguity of the issue as to whether the condition of extending the basic limitation periods is the initiation of criminal proceedings ad personam against the actual perpetrator, or whether it is sufficient to initiate proceedings against the person, but not necessarily the actual perpetrator - such as. author of the article "Presentation in the light of draft amendments to the Penal Code" Mr Marek Hermanowicz. Therefore, it is possible to improve the Article. 102 of the Penal Code - Modern Posel Club will not object refer this draft law to the relevant committees and submit the relevant draft amendments to that provision. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u241	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club in relation to the parliamentary draft law amending the Penal Code Act, print no. 32 and 32-A, by the PiS Parliamentary Club. The starting point for the project is the content of the article. 101 Penal Code. It is worth quoting: "Criminality of crime ceases if, since the time it was committed: 30 - when the act constitutes a crime, 20 - when the act constitutes another crime, 15 - when the act constitutes a criminal offence punishable by a sentence of imprisonment exceeding 5 years, 10 - when the act constitutes a criminal offence punishable by a sentence of imprisonment exceeding 3 years, 5 - when it comes to other offences. Article is also relevant in the context of this project. 102, if within the period referred to in Article. 101, proceedings have been initiated against a person, the criminality of the criminal offence he committed is punishable by the expiry of 5 years after the end of that period. The draft provides that, if proceedings have been initiated, the criminality of the offence referred to in the aforementioned § Paragraph 1 (1) (3) shall cease to be 10 years old and, in other cases, 5 years after the end of that period. The non-automated version indicates that we are referring to proceedings against a person, while the self-correction appears to refer to proceedings in the case. The matter concerned by the bill is not complicated, but there are some fundamental doubts that are worth bringing closer at this stage. The first question arises: Why did the applicants change the essential condition of the limitation period? This was originally the basis for initiating proceedings against a person and was subsequently changed to the basis for initiating proceedings in the case. In the past, the whole reason was to initiate proceedings against the person. It is worth explaining, precisely, what caused this change. The second question that arises on the basis of the proposed project is whether the PiS Parliamentary Club and the Ministry of Justice are planning a thorough revision of the Penal Code in the near future, or whether such random amendments will appear and proceed over them due to current circumstances? And the third question that I allow myself, when presenting our position, to put forward: Is this amendment aimed at a specific group of actors covered by the amendments or by the new regulations, e.g. organized criminal groups, other dangerous phenomena that occur and due to the difficult matter they concern, hard at that time, which has established a code, to bring about effective punishment for the perpetrators, or is this the beginning of a change which is of a general nature, not referring to a particular cause? It is worth explaining on the part of the applicants whether we are going towards restrictions for ourselves, which may be expected in the everyday social perception, but we know well that this is an excessive restriction and can lead to a significant degree of paralysis in the area of justice. However, with these doubts As the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, we are in favour of transferring the project to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u243	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. If any of you wanna sign up again, you're welcome. If not, I'm closing the list. I invite Mr Witold Zembaczyński from the Modern Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u244	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There is a rather important question here about this change that you are proposing, the Members of the applicant, namely how many and what crimes have been statute-barred, e.g. as from 1 July 2015, and how many legal proceedings are currently pending in the event of statute of limitations. Since this change is so necessary and important to improve the quality of our legal system, I would like to get answers to these questions, because in the justification for this content we do not find, and also from the statements of the previous speakers, especially representatives of the Law and Justice, we can read that it is something else, not just punishing these acts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u245	Does Minister Marcin Warchoł want to answer? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I will answer the question of how many such crimes there are. The Ministry of Justice has requested data. From the data obtained from the courts of all appeals we learned that this number is almost 700 cases, 668 cases. It is worth noting that the law should be changed in a way that is acceptable to practice, in a way tailored to the realities of everyday life. Of course, abstract and general standards are being created, but what we see in practice cannot be abstracted. Meanwhile, as we read in the extremely laconic justification for the February change, which entered into force in July... Actually, that's one sentence. This is, namely, the following sentence: There are no indications which could reasonably justify such a substantial extension of the limitation period of criminality in relation to the perpetrators of the selected group of offences. And this is the only sentence that the legislator, who has the propriety of rationality, gives to the argument of this change. So, of course, abstract and general standards, but as a result of the observation of the practice. And at this point, the position of the Minister of Justice is clearly positive towards the project, the parliamentary draft amending of the Penal Code Act. All these arguments have already sounded today, namely, of course, the statute of limitations is the subjective right of the perpetrator. This is an element of criminal policy, which was confirmed by the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2008, where the Court expressly stated that it was the role of the legislator to be such a criminal policy as to be appropriate to changing realities. What's the reality? The fuel mafia, i.e. a case involving about 20 defendants, led by the appeal prosecutor's office in Cracow, would have expired in 2017. It's just one of those things. As regards the answer to the question of the Member, we, as the Ministry of Justice, have already requested details of the number of pending cases at risk of statute of limitations, so that the relevant data will be provided in writing. This change, moreover, was the result, in principle, of the absence of any argument. The change was entirely to say areflexic, as shown by this extremely short and laconic justification. This change coincided with a change in criminal proceedings. And here, answering the Member's question, will there be a draft amendment to the Global and General Penal Code. Yeah, the ministry's still working. Work is also underway to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure and to return to the model of officiality, the model of proven, the model adopted in many other countries. In fact, only Italy in the European Union has introduced a model of criminal proceedings based on adversariality. And it was even our legislator who implemented the adversariality to a much wider extent than it did in Italy. And since the Member asks for numbers, the numbers are shocking. Italy, which has implemented this system, is in a state of collapse after 25 years of the adversarial model. I mean, in that country in the justice system right now, about 45%. cases end in remission as a result of limitation, as is apparent from the analyses of the Ministry of Justice and about 160 thousand. cases are at risk of statute of limitations. So that the change that we are currently discussing is just part of the healing of the justice system. The second element is the changes in criminal proceedings - necessary, necessary and dictated by the observation of reality. So that it is an act of realism and an act of sense of responsibility for the justice system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u247	Thank you very much, Minister. Are the representatives of the applicants? Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to refer here to some of the arguments that were presented in the club speeches. As regards the justification of this project, I believe that it is comprehensive, it addresses all important aspects, and it is not an amendment of this Article. 102 drawn up for specific cases, she's needed. The extension of the limitation period in the history of Polish criminal law was in the Criminal Code of 1932 by the Senator from the district of Lviv Juliusz Makarewicz and Marshal of the Sejm, professor of law at the University of Warsaw Wacław Makowski, was in the Criminal Code of 1969, whose main author, I will remind you, was Witold Świda, academic teacher at the University of Stefan Batory in Vilnius, and later at the University of Wrocław, I was his student, and also in the Criminal Code of 1997, is just a matter of what these deadlines are, right? So far it has been 10 years, in the Criminal Code of 1997 this extension of the limitation period was also 10 years old and the doctrine in this regard is very positive that this provision is necessary. We are only returning to what was before. However, the draft of this February bill unfortunately was, for what reasons, it is not known, because already here I said that there was no substantive justification why it was shortened to 5 years. Very laconically, there was no substantive justification. And one more remark, because one of the previous speakers said that if there is an autocorrection, the project is underdeveloped. On the contrary, this gives an alternative, gives an opportunity to discuss in the committee on changes in codification and we will see what solution we will choose. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u249	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the parliamentary draft law amending the Penal Code, contained in prints 32 and 32-A, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 46 hrs. 18 min 52]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Investment Funds Act and some other laws (print No 69). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposal for a law amending the Investment Funds Act and some other laws aims to transpose the provisions of the following Directives into the Polish legal order in the field of investment funds. First, it is Directive 2011/61/EU of 8 June 2011. This Directive is also called the AIFM Directive. Secondly, it is the 2014/91/EU Directive, in the financial nomenclature it acts as UCITS V , and thirdly, Directive 2013/14/EU of 21 May 2013 on Alternative Investment Fund Managers with regard to overreliance on credit ratings. The regulations contained in the draft will also serve to apply two regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council, i.e. Regulation No 345/2013 of 17 April 2013 on European venture capital funds and Regulation No 346/2013 of 17 April 2013 on European social entrepreneurship funds. In connection with the implementation of the AIFM Directive, the draft law, which is complex, assumes, among other things, first, recognition as an alternative investment fund for a specialised investment fund and a closed investment fund, and consequently as an alternative investment fund manager, is the abbreviation of the AIFM, the association of investment funds that manages such funds, additionally recognition as AIFs of limited-liability companies and limited-liability companies which raise capital from many investors with a view to investing in it in accordance with a specific investment policy for the benefit of those investors, and consequently as AIFMs of the sole partner of those companies which are legal persons, and also recognition as AIFMs of a capital company which raises capital from many investors with a view to investing it in accordance with a specific investment policy, to the benefit of those investors, to determine the entity scope, i.e. an indication of which entities will be considered to be AIFMs and which AIFs. Secondly, it is assumed that there is a clear indication of the legal form envisaged to carry out the business of raising capital from many investors. Thirdly, requiring national alternative investment fund managers to operate on the basis of a prior authorisation from the Financial Supervision Authority. At the same time, in the case of smaller managers, the draft law provides for the possibility under the Directive to carry out their activities only after they have been registered in the AIFM register. Fourthly, the definition of conditions and organisational requirements for AIFMs acting on the basis of authorisation. Fifthly, lay down the rules for entrusting other entities with activities related to AIFM activities and obligations for AIFMs taking control of issuers and non-listed companies, as well as the introduction of an obligation for AIFs to have a depositary. Sixthly, an indication of the rules for the AIFM to place the rights of the AIF on the market, to establish branches and to carry out its activities in the Member States. As a result of the changes presented, the national investment fund market will be organised with a clear breakdown into UCITS funds addressed to retail investors and AIF funds directed mainly to professional investors. The introduction of minimum organisational requirements for alternative investment fund managers, and in particular the requirement for an alternative investment company to hold a depositary holding general supervision of AIF assets, will ensure a higher level of security of these assets and the proper protection of investors' interests. On the other hand, the proposed passport to AIFM will enable these entities to manage alternative investment funds based in other Member States and to offer the participation rights of national alternative investment funds in other Member States. Finally, laying down precise rules for both internal and external supervision of alternative investment fund managers will provide a clear basis for monitoring and monitoring systemic risk that these entities may generate for financial stability and for investors and counterparties as well as for other financial market participants. In turn, in connection with the implementation of the UCITS Directive in the national legal order for open investment funds, first, to define the tasks and responsibilities of depositaries, second, to require companies to implement remuneration policy investment funds, thirdly to review administrative sanctions and measures. As a consequence, these changes should increase the security of the assets of open investment funds and at the same time the security of the funds entrusted to the management of these institutions by investors. For example, the introduction of the need for TFI to develop remuneration policies should reduce the risk of investment fund managers, which will reduce the risk of investing in these funds. In turn, increasing the level of the maximum administrative sanctions provided for by the TFI should prevent them from violating the rules of law in a preventive manner. It is also necessary to clarify that the numerous amendments to other laws envisaged by the project are of a purely technical nature and result from the need to adapt them to the amendments provided for in the amendment of the Investment Funds Act. The bill submitted to the High House is the subject of a wide and long public and public consultation with the capital market environment, including an opinion by the competent authority on the supervision of the national financial market, the Financial Supervision Commission. High Izbo! I would like to express my conviction on behalf of the government that its adoption will contribute to strengthening the stability, security, transparency and competitiveness of the national capital market, while the solutions envisaged in the draft aim to strengthen the protection of investors' interests and strengthen their confidence in national investment funds. In conclusion, given the implementation circumstances, I would also like to ask the High House to proceed as urgently as possible on the bill submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u251	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of the club on the draft Print Act No 69 on the amendment of the Investment Funds Act and some other laws. The aim of the project is to implement Directives 2011/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on investment fund managers and amending Directives 2003/41/EC and 2009/65/EC and Regulations EC/1060 of 2009 and 1095 of 2010. The aim of the project is to achieve the objectives set by the EU legislator under national law. In addition, the draft implements Directive No 91 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2014 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities, regulating the scope of the depositary's role in remuneration policy and sanctions. The project also implements Directive No 14 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2013 on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision and Directive No 61 of 2011 of the European Union on Alternative Investment Fund Managers with regard to overreliance on credit ratings. Regulation concerns European venture capital funds, concerns the functioning of eligible types of alternative investment funds, lays down sanctions and indicates the competent supervisory authority. The purpose of the AIFM Directive is to establish an internal market for investment fund managers. When attempting a new regulation, account was taken of the risks identified during the financial crisis associated with the activities of such entities. They are responsible for the management of a significant amount of invested assets, carry out significant transactions on the markets of financial instruments and may have a significant impact on the markets and firms in which they invest and their activities may also contribute to the spread or increase of risks within the financial system and thereby increase the risk of investors, counterparties and other financial market participants. The proposed amendment to the Investment Funds Act strengthens the obligations and liability requirements of the depositary of the remuneration policy of management companies and investment companies and introduces common EU standards on sanctions and clarifies the powers of the Financial Supervision Commission. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I apply to refer this amendment to further work in the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u253	Thank you, sir. Mr Killion Munyama, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present a statement on a government draft law amending the Investment Funds Act and certain other laws contained in print No 69. The project concerns the creation of a legal framework for internal and external supervision and the functioning of alternative investment fund managers to monitor and monitor the risks that alternative investment fund managers may generate for financial stability and investors and counterparties as well as other market participants. The basic objective of the bill, as my previous speaker said, is to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2011 on Alternative Investment Fund Managers and to amend the directives that were just presented. As the previous speaker said, the proposal also implements a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2009/65/EC on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities [[UCITS]] as regards the functions of depositary, remuneration policy and sanctions. The objective of the Alternative Fund Managers Directive is to establish an internal market for Alternative Investment Fund Managers, i.e. managers of any type of funds not covered by the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities and the harmonised and rigorous regulatory and supervisory framework of the Union for their activities. I believe that it is justified that the publication of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary for the implementation of the UCITS Directive V It was decided to apply this law at this point, as I will remind you that the proposed regulation of this directive expires on 18 March 2016. Before all the agreements are drawn up here together in the Sejm, it will be closer to that date. It is worth noting that the activities of commercial companies which, in other ways than in the form of an investment fund, raise capital from many investors with a view to investing it in accordance with a specific investment policy for the benefit of those investors, are carried out on a general basis in the current legal state. With regard to this group of entities, the draft introduces new regulations which significantly alter the operating conditions of such entities, in particular the requirement to obtain authorisation to manage such entities and the supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission as the supervisory authority of the financial market over the exercise of their management activities. It is worth noting here that the supervisory costs do not in the final analysis charge the State budget, as it is precisely the Authority of the Financial Supervision Commission that is financed through the State budget in its entirety, of course contributions and fees will bear all the costs involved. However, I would like to ask the Minister what impact the proposed amendment of the Act will have on the activities of commercial companies, because in respect of this group of entities, the draft introduces new regulations which significantly alter the operating conditions of such entities, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in particular, the requirement to obtain authorisation for the management of such entities and the supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of sending the bill to the Committee on Public Finance and then to the Sub-Committee on Financial Institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u255	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Posel Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u256	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Investment Funds Act and some other laws, print No 69, was drawn up by the Governmental Legislative Centre on the basis of the founding of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Act (ZAFI) adopted by the Council of Ministers at its meeting on 25 March 2014. The proposed rules are to implement EU regulations into Polish law, while at the same time ordering the domestic market for investment funds. As the Minister mentioned, the content of the project had previously been widely consulted through a public consultation. The Modern Parliamentary Club, Richard Petru, agrees with the need to implement the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council and to organise the national investment fund market on this occasion. However, the draft law amending the Investment Funds Act and certain other laws requires further work in the committee to create appropriate conditions for the development and security of the capital market. The effect of the amendment should also be to stimulate an alternative source of funding to banks, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, to expand investment offer and to stimulate competition in the capital market, thereby forcing an increase in the innovation of the Polish economy. A horse with a row of who in 5 minutes will refer to this law, while I would like to draw attention to a few important issues, in my opinion. First, classification of specific investment funds open as alternative investment funds - AIFs. Based on the provisions of the implementing directive, the draft law introduces a dichotomy of investment funds into open investment funds, recognised as collective investment funds in transferable securities, called open investment funds, and alternative investment funds, called AIFs. According to the project, closed investments were included in alternative investment funds, so-called. FIZs, and specialised investment funds open. We believe that, due to investment specificities, specific investment funds should be classified as collective investment funds in transferable securities. Another thing is the requirement for double licensing of investment fund associations depending on the direction in which they intend to invest. We think that one way of licensing, which would be appropriate for both parties, is sufficient. That's another line. Obligation to add key investor information and information to clients of an alternative investment fund to the application for the creation of an investment fund. According to Art. Article 22 (2) (b) 1 point 10 of the draft Investment Funds Act should be accompanied by additional information, which we do not think is necessary, by the company's application for permission to set up an investment fund. In our view, this requirement is an excessive bureaucratic burden and therefore there is a risk of extending the work of the committee, the KNF, in order to accept it. It already lasts more than 7 months, so that it may not be necessary. Fourthly, restricting the directory of entities that can act as external valuer. Since there is little time, we would like to understand how it happened that in the consultation process the Ministry of Finance originally agreed with the position that removes certain exceptions, but now we are coming back to the previous version. I'd like to ask you to answer that question. Fifthly, the duties of the depositary. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 72 activities which fall within the scope of the depositary's duties are defined. At the consultation stage, the KNF notified the need to supplement the proposed provisions with additional responsibilities. As we remember, this proposal met with opposition from the Bank Council of Depository Banks. We propose further work at this point in order to draw up a common position in committee. The next item is the introduction of a meeting of participants in specialised open investment funds. Art. 113a of the project envisages introducing a meeting of participants in the SFIO and defining its competences. In the draft consultation - we would like to remind you - the House of Fund and Asset Managers has argued that this is not justified and will make market work more difficult. We therefore propose further work at this point in order to achieve an optimal position. A smaller point, perhaps, but also important: transitional provisions. You are assuming a 6-month period, we have proposed a slightly longer, 9-month period, which we think will give a better opportunity to properly and reliably prepare the implementation of the new regulation on the market. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In conclusion, the introduced law should attract - not deter - professional investors who currently do not decide, as you know, to be present in over-regulated markets to invest in Poland. As mentioned, the effect of amending the Act should be to extend the investment offer and, while ensuring an adequate level of security, to stimulate competition on the domestic capital market, thereby increasing the innovative economy of our economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u257	Thank you, sir. Ms Genowef Tokarska, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I submit a position concerning a government draft law amending the Act on Investment Funds and some other laws. Unfortunately, I regret to say that the debate on this project raises many reservations. It is a very extensive, financial law, which requires careful analysis. It should not be prosecuted against the principle of good legislation. The project was only included in today's agenda yesterday and the documents related to the project are a very comprehensive package. Besides, this is another project submitted by the Government or by a group of Members from the Law and Justice to the High House and processed instantly. Many of these laws, already adopted by the Sejm, had no legal opinion, not even the Parliamentary Legislative Office. I am convinced that there are many errors, even such as are not in conformity with the Constitution, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, please and I appeal to you and to the marshal, and to the Prime Minister, to stop this. High Izbo! Back to the project currently under discussion, I would like to stress that these new regulations are necessary for the implementation of European Union law into Polish law. The main objective of the project is to implement the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2011 on Alternative Investment Fund Managers, amending the Directives, so-called. AIFM Directives. In addition, the draft implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings and collective investment in transferable securities as regards the functions of depositary, remuneration policy and sanctions. The purpose of the AIFM Directive is to establish an internal market for alternative investment fund managers, i.e. managers of any type of funds not covered by the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 on the coordination of regulatory and administrative provisions. The main objective of the UCITS Directive is Whereas it is necessary to increase investor confidence in the funds, to strengthen the requirements concerning the obligations and liability of depositaries, the remuneration policy of management companies and investment companies, and to introduce common EU standards on sanctions. For this reason, the UCITS Directive sets out precisely the catalogue of entities which may act as depositary, tasks and responsibilities, including supervisory tasks, liability in the event of the loss of financial instruments or other losses and the principles of delegation of their duties to other entities. The UCITS Act provides for the establishment at the level of the fund manager of remuneration policies in relation to categories of workers whose professional activities have a significant impact on the risk profile of the funds managed. It also establishes a minimum catalogue of administrative sanctions and measures for non-compliance. What are the benefits of making changes? Among other things, it is possible to monitor and monitor the risks that these entities can generate, to increase the security of the assets of the funds managed and to reduce the risks associated with investing in funds. The new regulations are to enter into force after 30 days from the date of their publication in the Official Journal of the Laws. The Act certainly qualifies for further thorough work in the Seym. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u259	Thank you, Member. Mr Robert Winnicki, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! It's high, though it's deserted, Izbo! We are dealing with a project that looks like this: this is the first volume of this project. It must be said that, of course, the draft under discussion implements two EU directives, which are strongly, but this is a very late response to the effects of the 2008 financial crisis. One of them, so-called. AIFM Directive should be implemented in national law by 22 July 2013. More than a year ago, the European Commission recommended Poland for failing to implement this directive into our legal order, which involves the risk of initiating proceedings against Poland and imposing a financial penalty on us. The question should be asked here: Who is the sovereign in Poland and is it for sure, according to the Constitution, the nation, or are the sovereigns of the EU bureaucrats, imposing their questionable quality solutions on us? And why the dubious quality of the solution? Ladies and gentlemen, from the formal point of view. The text itself is here so I don't lie, 240 pages, that's how it looks. This is the text of this project, the rest is the justification, only in volume one. More than 900 pages in total. Formal: opaque design structure, complex terminology network. This raises the question: Is this the way the draft laws are supposed to look, or are they sure that they meet the conditions of correct legislation? I understand that this is a difficult subject, but do we want the law passed in the Polish Sejm to look just like the draft law? Was she just a copycat of what the EU bureaucrats would come up with? From the substantive point of view, this is simply another example of restricting the freedom of economic activity of Polish entities by the European Union. I have doubts whether mindless copying of EU solutions will have a positive impact on the competitiveness of Polish financial institutions. This is also another example of increasing the obligations imposed on Polish financial market entities, which, despite some reservations, are widely recognised as safe. As we read in the Impact Assessment: The implementation of these two EU directives will result in increased responsibilities on the part of depositaries banks, investment fund associations, investment funds and, consequently, increased costs for these entities. I therefore have doubts that financial market operators will not want to shift the costs associated with the implementation of these two directives to their customers. [[They're gonna have to.]] We also read that the adoption of this law will result in an increase in the staff resources of the Financial Supervision Authority, which will cost about PLN 4.26 million per year. Do we want the law we adopt to result in the recruitment of new officials when the number is already exaggerated? All these doubts prompt me to make a motion on behalf of the Kukiz club15 to reject the project submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u261	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to ask a question? Does the Minister want to answer? Okay, thank you very much. The discussion is closed. As a motion to reject the draft law at first reading has been tabled in the discussion, we will vote on this proposal tomorrow in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Tax Administration Act (Print No 76). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law amending the Tax Administration Act concerns the amendment of the date of entry into force of the Act of 10 July 2015, aimed at improving and improving the functioning of the tax administration and creating the best conditions for taxable persons to perform their tax obligations. This law was to enter into force on 1 January 2016 and was also intended to serve as a service and support function in order to assist in the proper fulfilment of tax obligations. These tasks were aimed at: firstly, direct handling in tax offices, including assistance to micro-enterprises starting business; secondly, support to the taxpayer by setting up service centres for independent, correct and voluntary fulfilment of tax obligations and, thirdly, centralising the tax information system by creating a specialised tax authority whose primary task will be to provide uniform and publicly available tax information using the tax administration's knowledge base. In this database are to be included, among others.: General interpretations and non-notified interpretations of individual tax legislation, non-notified judgments of courts and tribunals, relevant in the field of tax law, and tax information brochures. The tax administration's knowledge base is accessed through the tax portal. This scope of change requires comprehensive organisational action, which is impossible by the end of this year. Therefore, in order to ensure that individuals are properly prepared to carry out the tasks imposed, we propose that the date of entry into force of this valid law for taxpayers should be postponed to 1 July 2016. This change does not entail additional financial implications, including for the state budget and for the budgets of local government units. The planned organisational and functional changes will be implemented under the existing financial resources available to the competent authorities. In view of these arguments, I ask the High House to adopt a proposed amendment to the Tax Administration Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u263	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Andrzej Costowniak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The rapporteur provided factual information on the amendment of the law. It was my honor to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position towards the bill amending the Tax Administration Act. The change is of a nature, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said here, purely technical. This is a change linked to the date of introduction of the above regulation. The aim of the Act is to improve and improve the functioning of the tax administration, as has already been said, on three levels. They've been mentioned, and I'm not gonna call them back. The wide range of changes, which are very complex, makes it impossible for this regulation to enter into force from 1 January. I would therefore like to ask, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, for the Law and Justice to proceed with this proposal in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u265	Thank you, sir. Mr Gierada, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know, I think: Minister! I don't know if it's a government representative, because there hasn't been anyone in the court just now, but I hope we have a government representative, because it's undoubtedly a very important bill for the tax system, and it would be good if we could also hear today what the government's position is. I have the honour to take a stand on behalf of the Civic Platform Club on behalf of the Parliamentary bill amending the Tax Administration Act, print no. 76. It's been 20 years since we passed the IRS bill. From now on quite significant changes have taken place in their functioning and in the surrounding reality. No doubt our system is quite archaic, because not much has been changed in these 20 years. Today, our taxpayers often treat tax offices as a necessary evil and as such an institution, which is primarily responsible for tax collection, for their enforcement, but without such a partnership approach. The solutions envisaged in the Act adopted in the previous term of office change this, it is a certain philosophy of the functioning of these offices, and above all it changes the attitude of the office itself towards the taxpayer to such a more service-based form and role. I would like to highlight here the government side and the applicants of this law, who also said that this law is important, above all, those statements concerning the service, support and service role that tax offices are supposed to play in relation to the taxpayer. I will say that in the previous term, when we debated this law, it seemed to me that the High Chamber, from the left to the right, found consensus: everyone stressed that it was an important law, for example. it introduces uniform information on the application of tax law irrespective of the place of residence of the person concerned. As we know, our entrepreneurs often emphasized that this is a nightmare for them. This law eliminates some kind of local tax havens or, most importantly, increases the stability and trust of the taxpayer in the tax office: when it has an interpretation, it knows that it applies throughout the country. Very important things that we also introduce and address especially entrepreneurs, their demands, are, for example, the introduction of a tax assistant in tax centres in tax offices or an increase in the possibility of binding electronic communications between tax offices and taxpayers, which is undoubtedly natural today, in the 21st century. The tax office can be more mobile, faster and, above all, it is more convenient for the taxpayer. In addition, it reduces the costs of smaller, micro-taxpayers, often those who start a business, because if they have a tax office as a partner and their advisor, who leads them through the thicket of regulations, they can reduce their costs by ordering the service of even accounting offices or using accounting services. Finally, the third, also very important thing that comes out, would seem to be, in line with what the campaign said the ruling option today, the sealing of the tax system. Let me remind you that we have introduced the possibility of being a public prosecutor in the case of tax authorities. In addition, we have already introduced the possibility of some kind of prevention or even intervention by the tax office when he sees that there may be a crime. In fact, it gives the possibility that when an official sees that there is a danger that some companies were created only to be part of a tax carousel, he can safeguard the interests of the State, intervene against VAT fraud. This bill... We had six months to prepare the offices. Today I myself, when I got it on behalf of the club, wanted to find out, so I made a few phone calls, probing whether the offices actually or those who run it, claim that they are unprepared. On the contrary, Polish offices are prepared for this. Today, undermining that decision and the failure to prepare offices, we are undermining the previous ruling option, the previous government, but above all we are also undermining the really colossal work that officials in these tax offices have been doing for six months. Honestly, we don't see the basics of why today we have six months, I emphasize: about 6 months, 100%, this period that has been prepared so far is a vacathio legis to extend. We know - at least there is such an opinion - that there are no relevant acts, regulations by the Ministry, but they are prepared, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only by the current Minister unsigned, hence we call for Law and Justice to withdraw its project, because the present law is very good for our taxpayers. Today, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I am filing a motion to reject this bill at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u267	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A nightmare, you say, a nightmare, just a nightmare. But is this nightmare to be treated by assigning a tax collector to every taxpayer? [[Assistant.]] Well, if he doesn't call it, he'll probably have a responsibility to report who he's guarding. It is not a problem in Poland whether we have an assistant or not, whether the office will smile or be sad, it does not matter at all to entrepreneurship. Simple tax law is important for entrepreneurship, one that will not have to be translated and interpreted several hundred thousand times a year. [[Exactly.]] You are saying that there will be an online base to give the taxpayer the opportunity to check different interpretations in different parts of our beautiful country and determine which is correct and which is not. This is the second time I've said, "The nightmare," you're right. The law that needs to be interpreted is an evil law and that law must be fought against. Not with the officials, with the law. Economic law is incomprehensible to anyone today, this is the reason why Western entrepreneurs withdraw from Poland in turn, without understanding at all what this is all about. I say: the more simple the economic law, the less trouble paying taxes, the less trouble financing various types of consulting services and the cheaper the activity. This should be the purpose of such laws and amendments. In Poland we are to earn, pay taxes, not worry about having nightmares. I really liked your name. Today I have just heard one specific thing, for which I thank you very much from the PO. What you've created for eight years in form, I don't know, maybe hundreds of kilos of bills... Let me remind you - the Act on Economic Freedom no longer works. What's the problem with making something up and then mute the bill for years? There is no law on economic freedom in Poland. By means of regulations, each Ministry withdrew its own participation from that freedom. And as it was, so it will continue: the entrepreneur will be exploited. Your tax minister made it clear to his officials: if you don't have the results of your checks, you're expendable here. That is the attitude today, whether we have good officials or not. I believe more and more because I look them in the eye a lot and I see clearly that these eyes are no longer like seven or ten years ago, they, these officials today are almost ashamed. But bringing such absurdities, when this control comes to the company, tells on the label to change the word "components" to "the compound," and threatens with punishment, are the absurdities that must be fought against. By what? Only by simplifying the law, nothing else will help here. That is why Kukiz15 is in favour of eliminating CIT as a sick person at all, because this is already the last stage, this cannot be fixed, it simply needs to be eliminated and in this place introduced income tax, equal, mandatory for everyone. This will bring at least three times the amount of money to the Treasury. I think this argument should reach you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u269	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Posel Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club in the field of amending the Tax Administration Act, print no. 76. At the outset, I cannot agree with the view expressed here by the Member of the Law and Justice that this is only a technical change. Let me get this straight. Once again, the majority, also Parliamentary, Law and Justice, is giving us a bill that is brought to the House from hour to hour, and this clearly violates the standards of work in Parliament, destroying the opposition's efforts to be a good law in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Poland. I think that Poles and Poles see what is happening in the Sejm, and they will learn the right lessons from it. As regards the proposed amendments to the Tax Administration Act, I would like to say that they relate to the change of the date of its entry into force from 1 January 2016 to 1 July... from 1 January... yes, on 1 July 2016. The projectors justify this change by not preparing the tax authorities for these changes. I have also consulted the tax authorities and these tax authorities are prepared to make the changes they are talking about in the project. Of course, there are problems with the implementation of this law, but they are due, as you have already mentioned here, to the lack of implementing acts concerning the new institutions introduced by the law, so-called. specialised tax offices, or the structure of tax chambers and tax offices. But this is not mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of the bill. It should therefore be presumed that the actual reasons for changing the date of entry into force of the Act are elsewhere. The Tax Administration Act introduces Chapter 5: Recruitment for certain positions in the tax administration. This chapter gives rise to specific rules relating to the qualifications of the directors of the tax chambers and the heads of the tax chambers. Moreover, all these persons must be selected in the contest mode. Both the question of qualifications and recruitment for official posts are extended to vice-directors of tax offices and deputy chiefs of tax offices. The question therefore arises as to whether the real cause is not the fear of law and justice that you will not find in your own ranks so many people who will meet the conditions set out in this law. For today - for today, for the morning, because it is evening, so perhaps this has already changed - you have cancelled six directors of the IRS from the country. In the opinion of the Modern Club, we are undoubtedly dealing with another state ownership and with a change in the standards of public administration, in this case tax, for the worse. Another example of how important this bill is. This law is awaited not only by taxpayers, not only by tax authorities, but also by other entities, but also by municipalities and communal unions. Article 5 of the Act introduces an important institution, i.e. the possibility of concluding by agreement with the head of the tax office the powers of the enforcement body. This is needed for municipalities and inter-communists to be better able to enforce waste management fees. Today's office doesn't do that. Municipalities want to take over these competences free of charge and want to do so from 1 January 2016, because this will have an important impact on their financial condition. For all the reasons I have presented, the Members' Club Modern requests that the bill be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u271	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Łopata, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u272	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Requestor! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary bill amending the Tax Administration Act. The High Izbo, a project, as has been said many times, is very short, you can say, a quicker, two-Article, and it is a shift in the date of entry into force of the Tax Administration Act of 10 July 2015. The bill was submitted by the previous government, my government, to the Sejm on 10 April 2015, and the President signed the Act on 31 July 2015. So it's called. vacathio legis was, apparently, sufficient. I, too, sought information from the tax offices and confirmed the words spoken here, from the Sejm Court, before I spoke. Tax offices and tax chambers are prepared for the entry into force of this law. You often say - here I am addressing the Members of the applicants - maybe you have said that, because I hear a little less about the repressiveness of the state towards citizens, about the lack of assistance for citizens, and at the same time when there is a chance, there are such solutions, and you dismiss them. For now - here it is worth highlighting these words: for now - for six months. So what was it about, or is there still a bill? Maybe a few words about history. Indeed, the tax administration in Poland is undergoing a process of changes aimed at improving the functioning of tax authorities, strengthening the structure serving these bodies of individuals and implementing a form of interaction with taxpayers, emphasising service functions, aimed at facilitating the taxpayer's fair and correct fulfilment of the obligations laid down in the tax legislation. In the first stage of improving and improving the functioning of the tax administration, the Ministry, the former Ministry, took action to strengthen the organisational houses and offices by preparing these units for the implementation of consolidation. The second stage of the action was the creation of legal conditions for strengthening the organisational tax administration by amending the Law on tax offices and tax chambers, and this Act of 15 January came into force on 1 April this year, and it provided for consolidation at the level of the voivodship of auxiliary processes carried out in tax chambers and tax offices. And this third stage, the stage that was included in the Act that we are considering today, the Tax Administration Act, provides for the introduction of legislation on the definition of tasks and the organisation of the tax administration, the introduction of a system of service and support for the taxpayer - I would stress: the support of the taxpayer - the rules governing tax administration employees and the rules of recruitment for certain office posts in the tax administration - it would probably also be appropriate to emphasise, perhaps even with a snake, because this is probably the clou of this parliamentary bill - the rules of recruitment for certain office posts in the tax administration. The implementation of the solutions provided for in the draft law will give maximum orientation - whether it would be possible at the moment, at this time it is necessary to say - to the taxpayer by creating a system of service and support for the taxpayer. The primary purpose of the provisions of the Act on the appointment of heads of tax offices for the service of certain categories of taxpayers and payers is to identify the entities involved in complex economic operations and to introduce legislative changes which will result in specialised tax offices being competent to handle only those entities. Solutions will be beneficial where the assistant can assist the taxpayer for up to 18 months from the date of the taxpayer's confirmation of the tax identification number. The taxable person's assistant will first be obliged to contact the taxable person to whom he is to provide assistance using the means of communication available. The role of the assistant will also be to initiate contact with the taxpayer in order to offer his assistance and then to provide, as appropriate, various types of information on the dates of the declaration, the payment of the taxpayer, the manner in which the statement is made, etc. There are many more - I am running out of time - good solutions for the taxpayer, for the citizen. Therefore, taking into account this [[♪ The bell ♪]] and what is included in this bill, which you want to update, I find no basis for my club to support the shift in the entry into force of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u273	Thank you, sir. Would any of your fellow Members like to ask a question? I don't see any calls. In that case, please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Andrzej Noblekhta.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In connection with the statements made by Mr Mirosław Pampuch from the Modern Posel Club and Mr Jan Łopat from the club After consulting the Ministry of Finance, I can say again that the tax administration is not yet fully prepared for the comprehensive implementation of all the provisions of this Act. In individual tax institutions such a state of preparation may be, but in general this state of preparation does not permit the implementation of this law. It would be a great risk to implement all the provisions of this law from 1 January. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u275	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will vote on this proposal tomorrow in the voting block. Now I'm running a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 min. 51 hrs. 20 min 01]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Public Finance Act (Prints No 72 and 91). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, the first reading of the Parliamentary draft law on amending the Public Finance Act was carried out. Following the presentation by the Member representing the applicants of the detailed provisions for the proposed amendments concerning the modification of the formula stabilising the expenditure rule, a two-hour discussion was held. The members of the committee have asked many questions to the representative of the government who has answered the questions addressed to him. The various amendments contained in the draft law were put to the vote at the request. Legislative and editorial amendments were also adopted. All the amendments contained in the draft law and the legislative and editorial amendments were adopted by a majority vote. The draft law was also adopted by a majority of the public finance committee. Therefore, the Public Finance Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 9 December 2015, requests the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u277	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Maria Zuba, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 8 November 2013, the Sejm adopted an amendment to the Public Finance Act aimed at introducing the so-called "Polish" legal system. stabilizing the expenditure rule. The rule replaced a temporary expenditure rule called a disciplinary rule. This new rule was supposed to be countercyclical, which simply meant that in a good time, expenditure would grow slower than gross domestic product, while in a slow economic period it would grow faster. A stabilising expenditure rule sets the expenditure limit for each year and not only for imbalances in public finances. This rule was intended to ensure the sustainability of public finances and correct their possible excessive imbalances. At the same time, however, it was intended to prevent an excessive tightening of fiscal policies, especially under conditions of significant economic slowdown. The proposed amendment to the Public Finance Act concerns an amendment to the article. 112aa by introducing a new wording. 1, which shall include a modification of the formula for calculating the amount of expenditure of the bodies and units for the financial year in question. The proposed amendment aims, first, at modifying the formula stabilising the expenditure rule and allowing for an increase in the expenditure limit for the planned implementation of significant one-off and temporary actions of a random nature during the financial year. The stabilizing expenditure rule contains two parts: real and nominal. The real part is the 8-year average of real GDP growth, which is changing to a small extent over the years, so it can be defined well in advance. So far, the nominal part was the projected increase in prices of goods and services, i.e. the average annual price index of consumer goods and services published by the President of the CSO, supplemented by a correction of incorrect forecasts. Due to the increasing volatility of inflation, this part of the stabilising expenditure rule introduces significant uncertainty in the budgetary process. Therefore, in the project we propose the need for an earlier than originally, the previous amendment envisaged changes to the formula of the expenditure rule. The project proposes replacing the single CPI, i.e. the inflation target and correction of the CPI forecasts, with the inflationary target of the National Bank of Poland, which is currently 2.5%. In this way, the nominal part will be more predictable, which will ensure greater fiscal policy stability. As a result of these changes, it is necessary to determine the amount of expenditure for 2015 and the error rate of inflation forecasts for 2014. The amount of expenditure of the SRW for 2016 shall not be taken into account in accordance with Article. 112aa paragraph. 2 financial flows between the authorities and bodies referred to in paragraph. 1, for grants and subsidies and financial flows between funds managed by the Social Insurance Institution and the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. The second objective of the proposed law is to allow for an increase in the expenditure limit for the expected implementation in the financial year of the significant revenue from one-off and temporary actions listed in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 November 2011. The forecast amount of one-off and temporary actions, each of which does not exceed 0,03% [[♪ The bell ♪]] the value of GDP, increases the expenditure limit rather than the amount resulting from the stabilisation of the expenditure rule, so that this increase does not affect the amount of expenditure calculated for the following year. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I request further work on the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u279	Thank you, Member. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Parliamentary Club, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The stabilizing expenditure rule has, or maybe it has to be said: it had an anticyclical character. Its aim was to ensure the sustainability of public finances, to correct possible excessive imbalances, but also to prevent excessive fiscal tightening, especially if there was a significant economic downturn. The rule limited the growth of public finance expenditure to the pace of medium-term GDP, took account of forecast inflation, correction and set the amount of expenditure in a recursive manner. That was the case, but the Law and Justice also decided to spoil the achievement of the previous government. Today is the third thing you're ruining, the third law you're ruining public finances. You probably messed up other things, but I wasn't interested in those anymore. You've broken today or you're trying to break the pension system, you've broken the 2015 budget bill today, now you're breaking the stabilizing expenditure rule. What does PiS do with this rule? He's making two changes. This annual CPI, together with the correction of forecast errors, replaces the inflation target of the National Bank of Poland. This target is 2.5%. While real inflation in 2015 - I am looking at government benches here, I'm sure the Minister of Finance already knows more or less what it will be - above zero, Minister? [[Voice from the hall: This is a pinch.]] But it's probably not much, or there's even going to be a deflation. So that's it. The problem with the inflation target of the National Bank of Poland in general is that it has little to do with actual inflation, i.e. it can be said: with the real economy. What will be the effect of this change in the stabilising expenditure rule? Instead of the 2016 inflation forecast of 1,7% in the budget The country will enter inflation at 2.5%. The difference is 0.8 percentage points, which allows you to increase your spending, the amount of expenditure usually resulting by about 5.5 billion. But will it be the actual revenue of the state budget that allows you to increase your spending? Of course not. The second change you are making is to increase the limit of expenditure by one-off, temporary, so-called. extraordinary income. And here, of course, you are doing this in marriage to an amendment of the budget, because you want to use the revenues from the LTE auction, which means you are expanding this spending space for the year by another approximately 9 billion. Therefore, in 2016, you can spend about 15 billion more than the budget prepared by the Minister of Finance of the Civic Platform. The problem is that the second change, i.e. an increase in the limit, is the one-off revenue of the state budget. If you spend it on 500+, pensions or other great ideas of yours, what will you do in 2017? The Minister of Finance will say that you will seal the tax system. I keep my fingers crossed for this, really, but, Minister, it really is not responsible for the management of public finances. The first change will not bring any real income at all, it is only a very strong loosening of the rule, i.e. You're actually loosening up the spending rule, and it's dangerous. Because the parliament doesn't use non-parliamental words, as the name suggests, so I'll paraphrase Wojciech Młynarski's song, who sang like this: What else is there to spoil, gentlemen, what else is there to spoil? I think that's the motto of the first weeks of the law and justice government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u281	Thank you, Member. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on amending the Public Finance Act. The amendment of the Act consists primarily of amending the stabilisation rule for expenditure, which has so far been defined as such a fuse for the expenditure of the state budget acting in such a way that expenditure could not increase in year n more than in year n-1 than inflation increases and such a modified indicator of 8-year average GDP growth. Why an 8-year-old? This was justified by the fact that GDP is fluctuating depending on the economic situation and the 8-year average will be the stabilizer that will have the peak and the bottom of the economy, and will best reflect the average growth rate of GDP. You can agree with that, you can disagree with that, but some form was worked out. On the other hand, inflation was introduced formula, CPI inflation, consumer inflation. The idea that consumer inflation is the best real, nominal deflator of GDP is not very acceptable. Instead of consumer deflation, it would be better to simply deflect GDP as an indicator for nominal GDP or take nominal 8-year GDP rather than real GDP. But let's just leave it, let's make it CPI, really. And now we have a change. Instead of the CPI, instead of inflation, we have the inflation target of the Monetary Policy Council. This target... First of all, the motivation is that we have come to a time when we do not have inflation, we have deflation, and therefore because there is deflation, negative inflation, still a little bit more and spending instead of growing could fall. From our point of view, i.e. from the point of view of the Kukiz Club15, the best stabilisation rule in general would be to equalise expenditure in the long term with revenue and no budget deficit. This would be the best stability for the public finances we would like, but we understand that this must take a while, and we will hopefully, together with the governing party, come to such a stability rule in the future and it will be best for future generations, best for Poles. [[I'm afraid not.]] But for now, we have the inflation target of the Monetary Policy Council, but this goal has always been higher than inflation. Rarely has the Monetary Policy Council - known to us for its hawk approach to monetary policy - defined this objective lower than existing inflation. It has always been a much higher goal. And now we have deflation, and the inflation target is 2.5%. So it'll increase the spending, loosen up the rule a little bit. It is not too good when the deficit reaches 50 billion to loosen up the expenditure rule, but we are trying to understand that this is because the electoral promises are so huge that we have to deal financially with these promises, so unfortunately we have to loosen up how we want to fulfill the electoral promises, the spending rule. The only question is: What happens when the Monetary Policy Council de facto lays down the expenditure rule of the state budget? The Monetary Policy Council falls within the competence of the Ministry of Finance, falls within the competence of fiscal policy, as its determination of the inflation target parameter influences the expenditure of the state budget, the body, the Monetary Policy Council, the body responsible for monetary policy, begins to be directly responsible for fiscal policy. On the one hand, it can be said that this is a mistake of competence, but on the other hand it can be said that at this point both institutions are beginning to be responsible for fiscal policy and economic policy, right? The Monetary Policy Council is starting not only to think about strong money and the inflation target, but also to think about what expenditure will be most appropriate from the Minister of Finance's point of view. And at this point, if the Monetary Policy Council is independent, it doesn't care, and it just sets itself the inflationary objective that is best and optimal for monetary policy. But if the Monetary Policy Council is not entirely independent of the ruling party and the finance minister, then it can set itself an inflation target so that it corresponds to the ruling idea, the government idea, the idea of the Ministry of Finance. And that's dangerous because there's no monetary policy fuse at this point, right? Monetary policy is beginning to be subject to fiscal policy. The second thing is so-called. temporary one-off expenses which start to be excluded from this expenditure rule, which is always, if the government has any adverse circumstances, can be used to increase taxes and put out fires. Therefore, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Kukiz Members' Club15 is very concerned about these changes and will look closely at the effects that such changes will have in the near future. We would like to call on Members to look closely with us at the consequences. Our recommendation will be to reject this amendment because there is a fairly serious risk of uncontrolled loosening of monetary policy and lack of control by the Monetary Policy Council over monetary policy in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u283	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u284	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, few are gathered in the Chamber! Let's put it simply: this situation we have here is another example of pushing important changes in the Seym quickly and under the cover of the night. [[Voice from the room: Funny.]] The fact that an important bill changing the fundamental issue from the point of view of the state's public finances falls into the plenary room suddenly, being added to the agenda in the late afternoon, is not a coincidence. [[Voice from the room: It's been accepted.]] Law and Justice are counting on it to change the spending rule quietly, under the cover of the noise that goes on around the Constitutional Court. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] He hopes that the media busy tearing down constitutional order will not notice that Poland's financial order is also being destroyed. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] But from the beginning. This draft law concerns the modification of the so-called. stabilizing the expenditure rule. The fundamental changes that will affect the level of expenditure and deficit next year are two things. First, replacing projected inflation with an inflation target of NBP, which means that instead of the 2016 inflation forecast adopted in the budget of 1,7% an inflation target of 2,5% will be set. Both positions are much different from the reality that has been embezzling us in deflation for over a year. The difference between the old rule and the new rule is an additional 0.8% and each 0.1 percentage point of inflation increases the amount of expenditure by about PLN 700 million, resulting in PLN 5.6 billion. Secondly, the amendment concerns an increase in expenditure limit by one-off and temporary income, provided, of course, the value of each such income activity exceeds 0,03%. GDP. At the moment, you can certainly be included in such a category, e.g. revenues from auctions for the reservation of LTE frequencies of more than PLN 9 billion or some extremely high dividend. Ladies and gentlemen! A rule that can be changed as easily as the Law and Justice do is no longer a rule. Then why do we need a rule at all, Minister? The PiS will do whatever it takes to deliver on their electoral promises. I have already said this today and I will say it again: we are terrified that the PiS puts the fulfilment of the electoral promises above the welfare of the state and the state of public finances. [[Applause]] So I suggest we eliminate the spending rule today. Law and Justice can do anything, it can break the constitution, it may not respect the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, it may not even publish them in the Official Journal of the Laws, and it may therefore also eliminate the stabilizing expenditure rule. [[Maybe.]] For the sake of seriousness: we do not have calculations today, how all this will affect the expenditure and deficit of the state next year, we do not know what will be financed by one-off revenues - I hope that not multi-annual social programmes, because such a situation would be completely unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen! PiS wants to introduce costly reforms. Many errors can be made in the calculations, as I also mentioned today during the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. By spending as much as possible, with a deficit oscillating around 3%, we create a lot of additional danger regarding mistakes. All of this can ultimately make international agencies lower their rating for Poland, and consequently investors who invest in our country will ask for an additional risk premium and our debt will become more expensive. Not to mention that there will be no room to deal with the various difficult situations that our budget can face in the coming years. In conclusion, I will say that the Modern Club, which I represent, does not agree to such financial management of our country. The voids that are in this room, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They show how government and law and justice minimize such important issues, fundamental from the point of view of our state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u285	Thank you, Member. Ms Genowef Tokarska, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the Parliamentary draft law, no. 72 and 91. The bill deals with changes in the stabilising expenditure rule, which has so far been a good indicator of the amount of expenditure in each financial year. Its unique advantage, to put it simply, was the countercyclicality of economic expenditure. At a time of economic crisis, the rule allows for an increase in expenditure that stimulates the economy, while in periods of good condition the economy mobilises to save, reduce expenditure, reduce deficits and public debt. The first reading of this project took place today at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances. Projectors propose, as they call it, to modify the formula stabilising the expenditure rule and to allow for an increase in the expenditure limit for the expected implementation of significant one-off and temporary actions in the financial year. The bill submitted does not deserve to be adopted by the High House. The project is definitely ruining the rules of stabilizing the rule. It is unacceptable that any one-off, temporary revenue may give consent to expenditure resulting from multiannual reforms. Once again, I would like to point out that the project is not properly prepared to proceed and, more importantly, to be adopted by the High House. The draft law does not contain any calculation resulting from the proposed amendments, does not even have a positive opinion of the government, does not contain any expert assessment of the proposed changes. And let me repeat that, like the previous projects, there was no statutory deadline and procedure. Once again, I am appalled to say that this is a clear violation of public finance law. The bill is probably needed by PiS to construct the budget for the next year, to fulfill the promised promises. Unfortunately, this is to be done at the expense of excessive expenditure, a dangerous increase in the budget deficit and an increase in public debt. In conclusion, I stress that this project is not an indifferent modification of the stabilisation of the expenditure rule, or even a manipulation leading to serious consequences in the financial economy of our country. On behalf of the club, I declare that the project does not deserve support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u287	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. Would any of you like to sign up for the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform, has the floor. Time's set for one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to ask about the impact of these changes in 2016, i.e. if the expenditure limit increases and the amount of expenditure increases. And, of course, I wanted to ask you about this extra spending space that's gonna come up as a result of one-off income. One-off revenues are one-off, so my question is: Will these expenditures also be one-off expenditures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u289	Thank you, Member. Maria Zuba, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, also in this Chamber, there is still talk of income from the auction of LTE. Is it true that these revenues cannot be included in this year's budget? And what is the obstacle, or is the lack of booking decisions such a legal obstacle? And what would be the result if we included this revenue in this year's budget? Please explain this in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u291	Thank you, Member. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A representative of the Civic Platform in her club speech expressed the resentment that Law and Justice amends the Public Finance Act in the section on stabilising expenditure rules. Member of the Commission, Minister, who has recently made this change? [[We have introduced this reform.]] Hence the question to the Minister: When was the last time this law was amended? 'Cause I think it was a year ago. And you're taking away the right to make any changes to this project. It is the sacred law and duty of the government and the party that took responsibility for the exercise of power. Ladies and gentlemen, also in the statements of other clubs, it is heard that this procession is carried out under cover of the night. I think you'll remember the sitting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the committee was held at 3 p.m. 12, it lasted 2 hours - do not disturb - there have been votes and everything has been democratically settled. Thank you very much. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Can I correct it?]] [[It wasn't...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u293	Thank you. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Because you moved, he appealed here...]] The Member will be asking a question soon, okay? Please, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, yes, I think many have forgotten the state in which we received the government of PO and PSL. That's one thing. [[In very good condition, sir.]] Secondly, I would like to express my surprise again that you are surprised that the Law and Justice are going to implement the programme and intend to keep the electoral promises. I understand you're judging others with your measure. As for the budget deficit, this amazement that falls from the Platform and the PSL is touching, I must say. I just wanted to ask you when you started worrying about the budget deficit. Isn't it like that from the moment we moved on to the opposition? Because you've increased it by over 70 billion. [[The crisis was, man!]] Finally, it is worth recalling that the discussion took place just at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, that after more than 2 hours, when [[♪ The bell ♪]] representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Minister answered all the questions. I would like to ask again, therefore, how it is estimated that the costs are, if this deficit can increase, even if it makes the most of these opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u295	Thank you, sir. Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Posel Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u296	Dear Marshal, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Can't such important matters be dealt with in a timely manner so that each of us can prepare ourselves? Time pressure, short time to analyze such important patterns. On purpose, I assume. Modification of the formula stabilizing the expenditure rule makes it possible to increase the expenditure limit. It's like the wallet we have. Just one word comes up: you would buy a village, but money somewhere. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u297	Thank you, Member. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In response to what happened here on the part of the Law and Justice: to deliver on the promises as much as possible, Mr President, the electoral promises must be fulfilled, but not at the expense of the state's finances, the public deficit, not at the expense of the fact that after your governments you will have to clean up Poland for a few more nice years. Absolutely for this as a club. Modern is not acceptable. The Commission, and yes, has been sitting for about two hours today, but on the committee, it was said that the law on amending the expenditure rule will not be on the agenda today, perhaps tomorrow, as soon as possible, but most likely at the next session of the Sejm. Nothing predicted this, only three hours ago we learned that this change, very important and fundamental from the point of view of the state's finances, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's gonna be in session today. And one last thing. Just stop jumping into each other's eyes, piss and po. Let me point out here that voters don't pay us to argue with PiS-PO. That's not what the voters are paying us for, that's not what you're paying us for. [[Applause]] [[Madame, we are arguing in substance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u299	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Some of the questions were addressed to the Ministry of Finance. A question came up from the rapporteur when the law was last amended. The previous bill amending the law and the expenditure rule entered into force on 12 June this year and as a result the expenditure limit was increased by 4.2 billion by including the Banking Guarantee Fund in the expenditure rule. [[To the sector.]] The basic part of the things that were mentioned - it is worth noting first of all that the spending rule, the introduction of the inflation target actually allows for a combination, for a better policy mix between fiscal policy and monetary policy, because as we calculate the 8-year average inflation in 2015, it is indeed very close to the 2.5% inflation target. Therefore, the second thing is also important. If the central bank's inflation target were to be raised, let's assume that there was an example of 4%. naturally, we can expect an average of 8-year inflation to also be approaching this level. Therefore, regardless of whether today we have an 8-year average inflation or not, in fact this effect, this long-term average is, for the very principle of monetary policy by the National Bank of Poland, close to the inflation target. As a result, the National Bank of Poland already has an impact on the expenditure limit today because it has an impact on inflation, and therefore has an impact on the multiannual average, and the multiannual average is already in the formula, which is just within... which is part of the That's the spending rule. Therefore, there was also a question of how the change in the spending rule for expenditure in 2016. As Mrs Leszczyn said, this indicator, the impact of the change in the average of multiannual inflation on the inflation target, contributes to an increase of PLN 5.7 billion. There was also a question here from Mrs LTE, which depends on whether the money from the LTE tender will appear in the budget. On the basis of the law on public finances, it can be said that, in fact, the budget to which this money goes depends on where it is paid. It means that if they are paid into the state budget by market participants in 2015, they will appear in the 2015 budget and if this money is paid in 2016, it is actually booked in the 2016 budget. I think that's all the questions. Thank you very much. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I still, Minister, asked what one-off deals you would finance.]] Oh, yeah. Do they have... They don't have... One-off receipts, the inclusion of these one-off receipts in the rule means that they increase the expenditure limit one-off and are therefore of a one-off nature. [[Voice from the room: But where will they come from?]] The spending rule... This amendment will concern the budget in 2016. The draft budget will appear on the Council of Ministers on Tuesday and all the elements related to this budget will be presented as a presentation to the Council of Ministers on Tuesday, so all information on potential one-off impacts will then be made public. Thank you very much. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Thank you. We're looking forward to further development...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u301	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of Andrzej Noblechta.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to thank all the Members who took part in this discussion. But I want to get back to formal. Notice that this law would be discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, you had in your notices, and the Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, sent the draft law adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance to the Sejm. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: It could be done...]] But please learn some manners, do not interfere with how someone is performing, because it is very rude, Member. And one more request to the Member. Our group is called Law and Justice and please use the full name, because you will be sorry when we say that your group is N. Please keep certain standards. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you so much for letting us discuss this. I just want to tell you, who are not long in the Sejm, that the proceedings are at an hour. 20 or 21 is the norm of sitting, it is not late. Don't put so much tension, such unhealthy emotions that the Sejm's deliberations at hours. 20 or 21 take place under cover of the night. You want to cause such negative emotions on purpose. That is what I ask you to refrain from such unnecessary threads that only excite and bring nothing to the table. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u303	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 9 December this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice, has the floor. He's not here. He's not here. He's not here. I invite Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just before the beginning of the present meeting, the Sejm was informed that on Friday 11 December 2015 two companies of daughters operating within the Grupa Azota Zakłady Azotowe Puławy: Remzapu sp. z o.o. and Medical. The first of these companies is a company employing several hundred people, offering services and products for companies in the chemical, petrochemical, cement, energy, food and other industries. In turn, ZOZ Medical was established in 1997 by Zakłady Azotowe Puławy SA and other companies and organizations operating within them. As part of NZOZ, there are primary health care clinics, specialist clinics, occupational medicine clinics, dental clinics, medical rehabilitation and medical rescue. These companies are important for the functioning of nitrogen plants as well as their employees. They may also be attractive snacks in terms of privatisation offer. I believe that in view of the change in the management of the Treasury Ministry and probably other expectations in relation to the management of the company Azoty ZA Puławy Group, privatisation should not take place at this moment and should be stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-09-sejm-04-1.u305	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 10 December 2015 at 3 p.m. 11. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 20 min 48]]
