ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u1	I open the second sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk to be the secretaries of the sitting. You're welcome... Oh, there you are, gentlemen. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. Dear Senators! In view of the acts of terror in Paris, the second Senate meeting of the ninth term of office, let us begin by objecting to this cruelty and ideology of hatred. Let us rise up in a minute of silence to express our solidarity with our French brothers and the free world community and to commemorate the victims of the attacks in Paris. [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. Your Senate, I inform you that due to your absence at the first meeting of the oath, you have not submitted Senator Mieczysław Józef Golba. Mr. Senator will take the senator's oath before we proceed. The Senator's pledge rate is included in the article. Article 104 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 Senate Rules of Procedure Senators take a vow in such a way that when they read the rota of the vow, they pronounce the word "I pledge." The vows can be made with the addition of words, so help me God. I ask the senator to approach the president's table in order to take a senator's oath. And I ask all of you to rise. Mr. Senator, I'm reading the vows. I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. I ask Senator Mieczysław Józef Golba to take the oath.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u2	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u3	I state that Senator Mieczysław Golba has made a vow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the second point of the draft agenda be considered, although the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the membership of the Senate committees was submitted at a later date than specified in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. High Senate, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by points: the second reading of the draft resolution in the name of solidarity with the French people, printing No 14 and considering it as the first point; and the second reading of the draft resolution on the 50th anniversary of sending the Polish bishops a historical letter to the German bishops, printing No 12 and considering it as the second point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any calls. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. The votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. High Izbo, the three first items of the agenda are scheduled to be considered today, i.e. points: second reading of the draft resolution in the name of solidarity with the French people; second reading of the draft resolution on the 50th anniversary of the sending of a historical letter by the bishops to the German bishops; second reading of the draft resolution on the creation of the Polish Interparliamental Union Group. After considering these points, the session will be adjourned by 11 a.m. tomorrow. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the current Senate meeting can be supplemented by a point: the Law on the amendment of the Law on Government Departments and some other Laws, following the preparation of a report by the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration. I remind you of the need to enlist in the discussion with the Senator, the secretary holding the list of speakers, as well as the fact that signed proposals of a legislative nature are being submitted to the Senate Marshal until the debate is closed. We proceed to the first item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution in the name of solidarity with the French people. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 14 and the report "Print No 14 S." I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Aleksander Potij, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Legislative Commission recommends that the attached text be adopted by the High House after considering the draft resolution. During the debate, we discussed one issue quite strongly: is there a recommendation in this text relating to strengthening international cooperation on actions that are needed to increase security in Europe? The majority of committees supported the proposal to delete this paragraph and the text was adopted without it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome. [[Mr. Senator... wait a minute, I'll take the card because I can't hear you.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u6	Senator rapporteur, what were the arguments for deleting the paragraph on solidarity and strengthening cooperation... to strengthen cooperation within the Union in connection with this tragedy?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u7	The main argument was... Senator Jackowski was the proposer of the revision of this text. As I recall, the main argument was that the senator did not want to enter the foreign policy area, which he considered more of a government domain. On the other hand, there were arguments from the applicants that the Minister of National Defence, Mr Antoni Macierewicz, had just stated that such measures really need to be taken. The outcome of the discussion was that both sides stayed with their sentence. The vote voted to delete this passage.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a request for you to quote the passage that fell out of the proposal proposed by the applicants, and the one that is now. I would like you to answer the following question: whether this catalogue, which was originally proposed, included all the measures to be taken in order to increase security, or if it limited them only to the activity of special services, coordination of their activities, etc.? It is also about police services, it is about migration policy, it is about visa policies, it is about Schengen, it is all about this formulation, which is currently in place. There are not all the measures that should be taken in the opinion of all to increase security in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u10	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u11	Mr. Senator, it's hard for me to comment on whether there was a whole catalog or not. I may read the right paragraph and then all the assembled will be able to decide whether he was or not. Original text on this revised passage I'm just gonna quote a little bit. He looked like this: We also express the hope that the victim of innocent people's lives will not be in vain, will become a warning and will prompt decisive action. There was further a paragraph that was deleted: Reflection on events in Paris should result in better cooperation between the special services and justice authorities of the European States, as well as more effective coordination of these activities at European Union level. And this is a passage that Senator Jackowski proposed to cross it out and add to the earlier paragraph that the victim of innocent people's lives will become a warning and prompt decisive action. We added: security. And that's the difference. I'll leave that up to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u12	Mr. Senator Rulewski? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u13	Thank you very much. Question one: was the committee meeting considering a possible extension of the scope of the law to other acts of terror... [[Voices from the O.R.:...indulgences.]] [[Voice from the room:...the content of the resolution.]] ...the approval of other acts of terror made at the same almost time as more victims were killed by the same organization? I'm thinking about Russian tourists in Sinai. That's the first question. Two. Has the committee discussed the controversial issue of support to the Senate for actions that will intensify the efforts of intelligence services, their coordination within not only the countries of the European Union, but also, what is understandable, NATO countries whose formula, as we know, is wider? And a third. Does this lapsus, which says that we call for a common vote between the Member States of the European Union and the free world, seem obsolete as both the Member States of the European Union, NATO and other organisations, including the UN, have not only spoken together before but also taken concrete action to combat terrorism? So, Senator rapporteur, wouldn't it be appropriate for a formula to say that the fight should be coordinated and not just to speak together, especially since terrorists generally do not respond to any votes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u14	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u15	The extension of this resolution was not at all considered in any way, i.e. none of the subjects which Mr Senator mentioned just now was considered at the committee meeting. Nor will I comment on whether this text needs to be changed or not. I'll leave that to all of you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u16	Thank you. Senator Paszkowski volunteered.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u17	Thank you. Mr Marshal, in view of the ongoing discussion and the questions that have been raised, I have a question or rather a request to the applicant: perhaps he would read the whole of the text which the committee has adopted as uniform, because sometimes the questions concern not the draft resolution which the committee has drawn up. Thank you. [[Right.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, do you want me to read it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u18	Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland In the name of solidarity with the French people. On Friday 13 November 2015, terrorists from the so-called "warriors." The Islamic States carried out a series of terrorist attacks in the capital of France Paris, where many innocent people were killed and injured. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, shocked by the great tragedy, expresses its solidarity with all French people. We pay our deepest condolences to all the French, especially the families of the victims. We also hope that the victim of innocent people's lives will be a warning and will lead to firm security measures. This is where the change I was talking about was. We believe that only the joint vote of the Member States of the European Union and the Free World on how to combat terrorism will improve the security of Europeans. The Senate of the Republic of Poland emphasizes above all that we must not be intimidated and give up our European values. We must not allow terrorists in Paris to achieve their goal, not only by attacking people's lives, but also by our common European heritage. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. I don't see any more people applying to... Senator Wach, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u20	I'd like to ask you something because... [[Card.]] It's in, it's... I pressed the wrong button. The resolution is an expression of sympathy to the French citizens, especially the families of the victims. Citizens of different countries died there. Wouldn't it be worth pointing that out in the text, that is, referring to the victims, that it is the citizens of the French Republic and other countries? But these victims were from many countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u21	Mr. Senator, your suggestion. 'Cause it's not really a question. It's going beyond my grasp. I'm the committee's rapporteur. [[Wasn't that proposed and discussed during the meeting?]] No, that wasn't a discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u22	Thank you. I don't see any more requests for questioning. Thank you very much, Senator, thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In fact, it is difficult to find the right words for these events. There is no doubt that terrorism is one of the worst plagues and afflictions of mankind. You can, of course, try to say colloquially, force yourself on diagnoses and prescriptions. Of course, I am not doing this, although I cannot help but think in general that the demographic crisis in Europe favours these phenomena, that the ethical condition of the European nations, to a large extent the removal of the Decalogue of Christian principles and the entire great heritage of Latin Europe are a platform and a source for this kind of action, a circumstance conducive to their taking. Reading the text of the draft resolution, I prepared five amendments. It is right that Senator Paszkowski pointed out that we have two prints, so I must say that when I prepared the amendments, I ate senate print 14 and, at that time, at the last minute, there was a print 14 S, so the two amendments are no longer valid. In particular, our hearts are beating in French today. As I understand it, the committee with this poetic concept, which various thoughts may suggest, has already resolved. However, the remaining three amendments are quite fundamental. Well, in the draft resolution, we have by various cases changed the words 'Europe', 'European', 'European', 'Europeans', 'as if that were a problem'. It's only European. However, the problem of terrorism, the problem that has shown these events, is global. There's no doubt about it. And that's what my three, I think, are about. I'm looking at the yellow print now, the third paragraph. I'd say there's even some inconsistencies here. The sentence is: we believe that only the common voice of the Member States of the European Union and the Free World will improve the security of Europeans. Why should the whole Free World only care about Europeans? Here the word "Europeans" must definitely be replaced by the words "Europe and the world." It should be: we believe that only the common voice of the Member States of the European Union and the Free World will improve the security of Europe and the world. The second amendment is similar and concerns the next sentence, the next paragraph: The Senate of the Republic of Poland stresses above all that we must not be intimidated and give up our European values. Here we are immediately discussing what European values are, which is why I think it would be easiest to write from our values. Maybe someone can find a better word. 'Cause that's definitely not a good word used here. With regard to the next sentence, a remark of a similar nature. It reads: "We must not allow terrorists in Paris to achieve their goal, not only of attacking people's lives, but also of our common European heritage. I propose to shorten and write our common heritage. This will certainly improve this text, it will have a much more global character and a deeper dimension. Amendment 5 concerned printing No 14, the last paragraph, which is no longer in the last paragraph, or actually the last one, because the last one speaks about the Polish Monitor. Here, the decimal point was this sentence: also more effective coordination of these activities at European Union level. It could have been added to the NATO record, but since there is no paragraph, I am not proposing this amendment. And these three amendments I'm handing over to the marshal. Coming back to the essence and the main thread, I would like to say that there is no doubt that improving security requires deeper reflection and wise action. Unfortunately, we are used to fighting the consequences, but a deeper reflection, a deep prevention, a reflection on the direction in which civilization created by us is going, is a task. All of us. There are no simple diagnoses, no simple reasons, no single cause, no simple prescriptions. Surely there is great compassion for the victims, for the families of the victims, for the entire French people and for all those nations and countries whose representatives died there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u24	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! To begin with, I will answer the question: why the Senate of the Republic of Poland? The Senate expresses solidarity not only because everyone does so, but also because the connections between the Senate of the Republic of Poland and the Senate of France and France are extremely strong. It is here that there is probably only a senate group of Polish-French friendships. This is where we used to work together with the French senators to commemorate our great compatriot Maria Skłodowska-Curie. This is where the French Senate Marshal, Mr. Larcher, spoke from this podium. That is why I think that many of us who have been here longer and who have worked in this group I'm looking at both parts of this room. The tragedy that occurred in Paris is extremely profound. It seems to me, therefore, that we have additional reasons, additional motives, to express solidarity with the people of France, especially those who have suffered such great losses who have survived and have suffered such trauma. And it didn't cause any controversy during the committee's work. We all felt that we absolutely should adopt such a resolution. The text that came to the committee meeting actually required corrections in many places, but it was written with the heart, just after this tragedy, so that we would not be among the last, but among the first to react. And for those amendments that were made, on behalf of the applicants, I would like to thank you. The intention of the applicants was not only to make this text an occasional record, but also to express, in addition to the expressions of solidarity in pain, the Senate's opinion as to which direction to go, what to do, so that this great loss is a victim, which obliges us to something in Europe and in Poland. And that's why there's records in there that maybe... maybe cause some controversy, but I don't think they're going beyond what might be a consent field. That's why I'd defend that paragraph that's been deleted. I told the committee today that we are not able to identify all the fields, all the areas where changes would be needed to make more of such sad events. It didn't happen. Therefore, the second paragraph of such action does not mention. However, there are two areas that repeat themselves in all the speeches that have also appeared in the statements of government representatives, the current government, at the last meeting devoted to helping the French with European law. This is, firstly, a question of closer cooperation between the special services and, secondly, a question of cooperation in the field of justice. I think we would have put our hand in making good changes if we had left such an opinion in this text so that we would not have done a ritual here, but an important voice in the debate on what should be done first, in particular. Sure, we need to make changes throughout immigration policy, that we need to make changes in many areas and dimensions, but above all we need to feel safe. Without changes in these two areas, which this paragraph speaks of, it is certainly impossible to do so. Therefore, on behalf of Senator Klich and myself, I am making an amendment in the hope that you will accept our arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u26	Thank you very much. Now Mr. Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We have prepared this draft resolution in connection with the emotions that accompanied all of us. We all saw the same images from Paris remind us of the bombings in Madrid, the bombings in London ten or eleven years ago, and the one from which modern terrorism began, those falling towers of the World Trade Center of 2001. Contemporary terrorism differs radically from the terrorism that Europe suffered in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. He knows no bounds, he's faster than the speed of light. Three people will be enough to organize a major terrorist attack that will paralyze a big city and cause panic across the country: someone who is responsible for the fundraising, someone who is responsible for planning a terrorist attack and this one person One, not necessarily more. Who will carry out this attack. Therefore, international cooperation to prevent and combat terrorism seems necessary and strengthening this cooperation It's a necessary matter. If we do not strengthen cooperation here, in Europe, through the European Union, then we too will be exposed to such terrible events. Fortunately, Poland is not the main target of terrorists, but Poland can become the target if international terrorism in Europe expands. Several people from Poland joined the international jihad and France More than 2 000 French citizens. It is estimated that at the end of last year 5 000 citizens of European countries In particular, France, the United Kingdom, Denmark, Belgium, Sweden and Germany joined the Islamic State. Some of them have returned and moved this virus of terrorism to Europe. I am talking about citizens of European Union countries! I am talking about those whose average age at the moment is five years lower than those young Europeans who, at international time, I would say, screaming around the Afghanistan case joined in, taking the Mujahideen side against the Soviet invasion. The average European who went to Syria and Iraq is twenty-three years old. Twenty-three years! It seems that no European solo country can cope with a terrorist threat. Therefore, the draft resolution states that we must act together, that we must act on the basis of bilateral or multilateral agreements which Poland has with other partners on the European continent and not only. It is also necessary to strengthen the coordination of these actions at European Union level. After Madrid and London, we all know that the European Union has assumed some responsibility for preventing and combating international terrorism. The Treaty of Lisbon negotiated jointly, signed by President Lech Kaczyński, contains several different tools to better deal with the terrorist threat. This means not only the establishment of an international coordinator who has been linking the European Union's activities for many years. This means not only cooperation between intelligence services, but not just cooperation within Europol or cooperation in the justice systems of European countries. This also means what the defence ministers called for the first time in history yesterday, namely a clause of mutual solidarity in the event of a threat or terrorist act. The French have referred to this clause for the first time in history and Poland will talk to Paris about what our national contribution to the joint counter-terrorism operation will be. I am talking about all this because, Mr. Marshal, the Senate, that we should not forget that, in addition to the diagnosis, we also need a prescription, that apart from describing the situation, our pain, compassion and expressions of solidarity, we also need to talk about what Europe needs, including us, so that we are safer. And that is why I support the amendment aimed at restoring this record, which was removed from the original text. And as for European values, Mr Senator, we know what they look like, because when we joined the European Union, we adopted the Copenhagen criteria under which we respect civil liberties, human rights, minority rights, the rule of law. today particularly stress The principles of the rule of law and many other values, which are clearly set out in the Treaties of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u28	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I feel a certain understatement from the context of the situation. On the one hand, we have almost galloping terrorism, which, in a special way, and not for the first time, has touched France. I recalled the terrorist attack on the editorial board of Charlie Hebdo, but there are other acts of terror that have been mentioned here, because of time I will not repeat it. Undoubtedly terrorism, not just Islamic terrorism, has one dramatic feature: it is blind and becomes universal. Blind because it doesn't strike, as it used to do, state structures, state power, but innocent adults and children. The draft resolution speaks of solidarity with the French people, but a few days earlier in Sinai, victims of terror almost the same group or group derived from the same ideology of terror were many more people, adults and children, and certainly the attack was directed at the most innocent tourists. I wouldn't say that the world response was appropriate to the event. Terrorists sense it and translate it, as in the gearbox, their forces into those places that allow them to carry out an effective read: loud Attack. Therefore, in my first amendment, I propose an extension of the context of the resolution. It talks about solidarity with the French people, about this border, when the world can no longer stop, as is said in the next paragraph, but about the voice, and when there is a need to talk about the fight. We also need to talk about the victim, about the dedication of these people... For example, in connection with acts of terror on airlines, we have committed ourselves to restrict our freedom and control, including even personal control. That is why I think it is important to mention the events at Sinai. As I said before, it is not enough just to say now, especially since many have been said, even resolutions have been taken, and we have changed the legislation, as long as this phenomenon does not reach Poland and, I think, also to the world, because we are members of the Community. And I'm in favour of senators Augustine and Klich. We say the terror doesn't have one address, he's strong by his nature, his blindness. And action is needed, especially those countries that have assumed responsibility for the security of more than 500 million Europeans. But this is also especially a matter of their value. Yes, sir, Senator Klich. And I say this not because you are the president of the club, but because in this House my colleague Jackowski unfortunately does not understand or want to understand what European values are, including openness. There are no acts of terror in the United States or in other countries, such as China, or at least on such a scale. But it is precisely because Europe is an open area What is a desirable value for the whole world? Terror is effective here. And indeed, Europe will be the subject and subject of terror, especially since... Although the resolution speaks of terrorists from the Islamic State, they were citizens of the European Union, and those within European legislation can also move to Poland, just as citizens of the European Union, and terrorize other communities. That is why this amendment, calling on the world to act, makes sense. It makes sense, for example, that we do not make another such resolution tomorrow or in two weeks' time. That is why I ask the High House to accept the amendments tabled. I also agree with the amendments that you have proposed here, Senator Wind, almost identical, in which we... These threads of Europe's security conflict with the security of the nations of the free world. The nations of the free world do not want terror, and it must be remembered that they are also victims of terror. And that's why I'm making amends, Mr. Marshal. It's the four amendments made so live, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u30	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As you can see, this dramatic Friday theme, on 13 November, caused a rather lively debate about the tragic bombings in Paris. I would first of all like to thank the authors of the draft resolution, because it is very good that the Chamber is taking this thread. But there is one thing to pay attention to. And here I would like to refer to a quote. After the World Trade Center Niall Ferguson bombings in 2001, he wrote in the New York Times, quoting: Civilization war will not be fought in battlefields, but mostly on the streets of multicultural cities, where violent riots are increasingly taking place. He also called it one of the paradoxes of the political deglobalization of the world at the time of its economic and cultural globalisation. Unfortunately, the events of Paris, past events such as Charlie Hebdo and Spanish, British and many others confirm that we are dealing with a modern hybrid war that is taking place in the streets of multicultural cities and which is conducted not only with military resources but also with psychological warfare, terror, modern means of communication such as Twitter, cells and all of this, all of the tools that we have today. And that is why, High Izbo, in my deep conviction of creating a draft resolution, writing down certain actions in it and bringing them only to the area of special services, which are supposed to improve Europe's security, is absolutely insufficient. I agree with those opinions. Minister Macierewicz said very clearly yesterday in Brussels that we will support France, and I am very much in favour of this. I believe that this is the most appropriate action of the Polish government, because we have some intelligence, information and some knowledge about the Middle East, which, notabene, we have inherited from previous years. Special actions of the US services best show that Polish special forces could participate actively in some operations. It's an undisputed fact. However, it will not be possible to ensure the security of Europe and Europeans without reviewing migration policy, visa policy, border protection, return to values, including Christian values, because Europe has lost its identity and is therefore so soft and unable to oppose those who, in the name of their religion, are willing to partake in order to lead to an explosion. These are all the problems we must face as a Member State of the European Union and as a European Union in its entirety. Therefore, in my deep conviction, there is no point in extending the catalogue of actions... Besides, we would certainly have different visions here, some would think that migration policy should not be changed, others would think it should be changed, and it would be difficult to adopt a text that would satisfy everyone. Therefore, my proposal is not to limit these actions only to the coordination of the activities of the special forces. Notabene, I recommend the last one, Bonda, because he is about this problem and about the coordination of the activities of the special forces. High Izbo, I would like to appeal not to restore this paragraph, because it would have to be substantially rebuilt and expanded. I think we should express our conviction... And I think that all that is contained in the draft resolution, plus the amendments of Senator Wind, gives a whole story that could be adopted as a resolution. It would be an important voice in the current debate in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u32	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Piotr Wach, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Less than an hour ago, the Senate celebrated a minute of silence for the victims of the terrorist attack in Paris, expressing solidarity with the people who suffered from it. Today, in the form of a slightly more permanent resolution, we are trying to pass this on to both our citizens and citizens of all Europe, the world and, above all, to the French who suffer and suffer directly. Especially in Paris. What happened. Terrorism is primarily characterised by absolute disregard for life and by the fact that it forces its goals in the most ruthless and condemnable way. Which condemnation is included in our proposed resolution. Terrorism is effective, among other things, because it's a disregard called, in quotes, a victim... This also translates into those who commit terrorist acts. We must resist this not only verbally and in writing, what we do, but also through effective action. Therefore, in the first part of my speech, I would like to express my support for the proposal that the text of our resolution, in addition to the expressions of regret, which seems quite powerless, should also contain a passage on certain actions that would help to combat terrorism. And the second thing I'd like to say. I would like to propose an amendment, relatively small, to this text, which I have drawn up on an ongoing basis and from here it is written by hand, but I hope that the marshal will be kind to refer it to the committee, that it will be legible. Namely, after a fragment of the text, I would like to remove the dot from the families of the victims and add the following text: "Citizens of the French Republic and other countries." That's because there were a lot of victims. Maybe there will be another, unfortunately, because many people are in bad shape. A significant number of them have been identified so far, and they are French citizens, but also many other countries. Of course, we address the French first of all, because in their territory, in their capital it happened and actually affects the whole country, although mostly on Paris and the people living there, but the pain and loss also suffer families in other countries, where friends live, families of those victims who are nationals of other countries. Hence this small amendment, which is not very elegant in form, but I hope that the marshal will be kind to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u34	Thank you very much, Senator. Oh, she's to be read, so she's accepted, Mr. Senator. You're welcome, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This resolution is, of course, very necessary. It is so that terrorism is now a global one. This act of terror happened in Paris, and Paris is in Europe. We should also remember and say... I would like to say that the victims of terror were also Russian aircraft passengers, Russians, Ukrainians, Belarusians. Unfortunately, the Russian authorities denied this, only the day before yesterday they admitted that it was an act of terror, and therefore, as I understand it, the authors of the resolution and we could not take this issue into account. And yet human life and an act of terror... the value of human life is the same whether it's French or Russian or anybody else. But the relationship of governments to this is different, and we see this on the example of this tragedy that affected the Russians, the Ukrainians, the Belarusians on the Sinai peninsula. The Russian authorities denied when other governments, on the basis of the information obtained, indicated that it was, however, an act of terror. However, I would like to express my sympathy for these victims, too. As for what happened in Paris and what is happening in the Middle East, I will say that we must realise that this act of terror in Paris will bring about some changes in the policy of the European Union or the European Union's core countries Well, we can only, so far, try to overtake these acts and try to defend ourselves against them, without destroying the growth that is in the Middle East, which the Arabs call Daesh, because the name of the Islamic State... is like taking over the concept, taking over what they want to introduce and unfortunately putting into circulation and into our consciousness those who practice this terrorism. In the Arab countries, this growth is called Daesh, not the Islamic State. After all, Islamic states are basically all these countries, including the governments of those countries that are against terrorists. And this distinction I would like to introduce, because I will operate with the concept of Daesh, not the Islamic State. Unfortunately, from our point of view, this also changes the balance of power in Europe. I'm sure it's... I don't know if it's obvious. But it can also affect the situation of our nearest neighborhood, because now Daesh is the main opponent of Europe and the United States. At the moment, there is no possibility that Europe or the United States will destroy this growth. They can do so in cooperation with Europe and the United States just Islamic states. He can do it to Turkey, he can do it to Iran and he can do it. ♪ regardless of our relationship with him ♪ Also Asad, or those who are there on the scene, and have some elements of strength. And this is probably where European policy will be headed, as well as US policy. I was in Iran recently and, of course, we talked a lot about it. The Iranian authorities have made such suggestions and expectations. I believe that, from our point of view, this kind of coalition is essential when it comes to destroying this growth. We in Europe, as well as the United States, can only try to defend ourselves, try to counter it. In order to defend itself, the most important element is intelligence, that is, obtaining prior information. I'm not going to discuss whether we have any assets or not, because this is a case for specialists, but I wouldn't overstate our capabilities. The PRL ended quite a long time ago, these assets used to be, but of course that changes. So in this situation, which unfortunately has changed and where Russia has also obtained an additional argument It is clear to me that we should further strengthen cooperation within the European Union, because there will be Ukraine, the issue of sanctions, etc., etc. I would absolutely not link this issue to refugee matters. It's not in our best interests that we combine this, and unfortunately there are signals like that. And at the end, I propose two stylistic amendments to the draft resolution. The first sentence says that many innocent people were killed and injured. I think we should write a few hundred because we know this number and we have to quote it. This is unfortunately a huge number. So not many, but a few of them. That's what I think. In the next sentence, we express our sincere condolences to all French, especially to the families of the victims. Here is such a stylistic ripple: the word 'all', and then the wording 'after all'. Right? I propose to replace the words above all with the words "especially" so that it sounds a little better. I'm passing on these amendments, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. And Senator Kazimierz Wind, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Senator Klich used such a nice phrase: terrorists are faster than the speed of light. I represent science, and I'm a little bit of a new rule of physics... I understand it's a poetic licenty, so I'm not gonna... Another case that Senator Klich has said is more important. Well, Senator Klich spoke of European values. I would not like to go deeper into this issue, so I will stop at... The global nature of this event is undoubtedly, and typing European values here focuses us on the completely regional nature of this phenomenon. We need to act globally if we want to fight terrorism effectively. Therefore, any attempt to limit this to the territory of Europe is completely wrong. Senator Klich enumerated Copenhagen criteria: human rights, minority rights, rule of law. I thank you for this enumerative mention, because... it just made me think that using this phrase wasn't the best thing. I know a much more inspiring catalog of values, and I'd prefer to appeal to it. I mentioned it before. For an illustration I will mention here the most important points of Paul Włodkowic's speech at the Council of Constance, several thesis on international law, international order. That was six hundred years ago. I think it's better to refer to that catalog of values than to the Copenhagen criteria. The procedure for working on this draft text is quite complex and complex. Some paragraphs appear, and then they disappear, and then they reappear. I would like to make the amendments that I had previously tabled, supplemented by this deleted amendment by the fifth amendment, which, if this text had been completed, would have been relevant. I'm making these amendments again. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u38	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u39	Mr. Marshal, according to the rules of procedure, 81. 4, I would ask that the marshal make it possible for a committee meeting to be held so that a draft resolution can be examined at this Senate meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u40	Okay, thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I also inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing: Mr Kazimierz Wind, Mr Bogdan Klich, Mr Mieczysław Augustyn, Mr Jan Rulewski, Mr Piotr Wach, Mr Bogdan Borusewicz. And there are additional amendments by Senator Kazimierz Wind. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I am sending the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn has requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. Yes. Thank you very much. The second reading of the draft resolution on the 50th anniversary of the Polish bishops sending a historical letter to the German bishops. I would remind you that this project was introduced by Senator Jan Żaryn and is included in print no. 12 and the committee's report In print No 12 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Bohdan Paszkowski, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As it has just been said here, the Legislative Commission has examined the draft resolution which was introduced by Senator Żaryn on the 50th anniversary of the sending of a historical letter by the bishops of Poland to the German bishops. As soon as possible, namely at 11.30 today, we started the meeting. We had a discussion about this project. After some stylistic or substantive changes, we adopted a single project It is contained in print No 12 S. I therefore request that the High Senate adopt this resolution, which we propose in this printing. While the project itself was not controversial, the amendments, the stylistic ones, too, have been focussed on one issue from a point of view, namely whether it would be worthwhile to include in this resolution also a passage that comes down to one or two sentences relating to the damage and the victims that Germany suffered after World War II or in connection with the movement of borders by decisions of powers which decided on the shape of borders, among others. The border on Oder and Nysa. Senator Libicki proposed an amendment in this spirit. She was formulated relatively hot, but, as I recall, he proposed that I'm based here on my notes, maybe not very accurate. In order to include certain statements in the draft resolution. It means that the bishops marked "The Bishops" At the same time, that those sufferings which met people of German origin in Polish lands after 1945 or after the end of World War II... that, of course, those sufferings were indicated in the letter. And there was a discussion about it. There were arguments that in fact it would break down the structure of the resolution, which also speaks about it. This is also included in it, although perhaps not directly, because the resolution, referring to the words "we grant forgiveness" and asking for it, also refers to the consequences of moving borders, and hence also to displacements which were preceded by the escape of the German people from the coming front. We had a vote on this, and basically it was only the applicant himself, or Senator Libicki, that 2 senators abstained, and 5 were against it. As we have resolved this issue, the committee proposes the following draft resolution I'm gonna read it right now. Which the Senate would have taken in this matter. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 50th anniversary of the Polish bishops sending a historical letter to German bishops. 50 years ago, in the atmosphere ending in Rome, the Second Vatican Council and on the eve of the Millennium celebration of the Baptism of Poland, on November 18, 1965, the Polish Episcopate sent a letter to his German brothers, in which he concluded memorable words and we offer forgiveness and ask for it. The authors of the message found a path leading to reconciliation between the executioners and victims, while the German crimes of the times of the occupation of Polish lands in 1939 and 1945 were named by name. This historical document, based on the commandment of love, was included in the Polish, and therefore European Christian heritage, reminded of the spiritual community of the Old Continent, while at the same time undermining the political arrangement prevailing in the world of that time, based on the forceful separation from that heritage of the iron curtain of those nations which were issued after World War II. Contrary to his will, under the political, political and ideological influences of the Soviet empire. The Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses gratitude to Polish bishops, with Primate Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński at the head, for defending the Polish identity, the right of the nation to sovereignty and freedom, including looking for its own way in solving painful problems from the past. The courage of the Polish Episcopate in proclaiming and practicing neighborly love and honesty of intentions should also become a challenge today for authorities who have the ambition to build bonds between nations, their culture and their values, enriching for hundreds of years the Old Continent. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I explain that the draft resolution on this content was adopted by all members of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u42	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the applicant, Senator Jan Żaryn. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alicia Hare, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u43	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the senator of the rapporteur a question. In the original draft, the third sentence began with the words of the Authors of the Message. There was a great letter, and in the commission project we have the words of the authors of the message written from a small letter. Why was the word "Ephesia " used at all? During these fifty years we are still talking about the list of Polish bishops. The Word of the Message never seemed to... [[It didn't work.]] ...it did not exist when it came to this document, the letter of Polish bishops. And one more thing. I am not Polish, but it seems to me that the current wording of the It should be written in a capital letter. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] If there's anybody in this room who's qualified, I'd ask him very much for his opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u44	Okay, thank you very much. [[You don't write that in a capital letter.]] But that's not a question for the senator, just a moment. [[Oh, I'm sorry.]] Excuse me, sir, but the senator... [[Can I?]] Was the question addressed to the rapporteur's senator or the applicant? [[To the rapporteur.]] But also the applicant, because you're the senator... [[Yeah, yeah.]] The senator is also responding. You're welcome, Senator. In the meantime... [[Too bad he's not here.]] [[But I can answer that, too.]] Of course, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u45	As we call it the message... [[Mr. Senator Żaryn, you're welcome to the podium.]] ...this refers to the title of this document. I have this document in front of me. He functions as the Message of Polish Bishops to their German brothers in Christ's pastoral office, such is the official title of this document. It was basically a letter. So that we are here, Professor, in agreement... [[...with history.]] Yeah, history. It's a small-letter spelling issue. Earlier, the word "cardinal" was written from a capital letter, and now from a small one. Similarly, the Polish episcopate... We simply accepted the principle proposed to us by the Legislative Office and by linguists. It was about adapting the spelling of these terms to the rules of Polish language. Of course, you can maintain a traditional... But we finally accepted that we would adapt in this respect to the suggestions that linguists were sending to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u46	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Żaryn, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, Mr President has exhausted the scope of the answer, at least to these questions. The name of this historical letter actually begins with the word " Message," and in such a way it occurs both in church documentation and in historical documentation, this letter is always called. As far as grammar correctness is concerned, we have actually discussed this, even it can be said that in a significant part of our meeting we focused on considering principles on the one hand concerning Polish grammar, on the other hand regarding honoring phenomena, people, events which result in the use of a large letter. I'd like to tell you right away. 'Cause it's probably not my last initiative to commemorate historical events. That in some cases, e.g. in the case of the Warsaw Uprising, I will insist on a large letter. There are such events, such titles where you can submit to grammar and you don't necessarily have to crush copies, but where this crushing of copies will be justified, I promise, Senator, I will do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u48	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the senator of the applicant. Would you like to explain whether this message, this letter, which passed to the consciousness of Polish bishops and German bishops, was important for the event that took place seven years later, after this letter, namely the regulation of the formal status of church provinces on the so-called northern and western lands? I am referring to the creation of bishops of the diocese in Gorzów, Szczecin and Koszalin, which was such a symbolic closure of this division and those conflicts which were on the part of... They were also at the level of the Holy See, because, as far as I know, some German bishops blocked the rapid regulation of the ecclesiastical status of these lands. Let us remind you that in Gorzów Wielkopolski there was an apostolic administration, i.e. a temporary solution, and it was a very, very powerful area. Was this letter in your opinion relevant and contributing to the regulation of this status, which, of course, also had a political dimension? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u50	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u51	Dear Senator, this letter has not only resulted in the result you mention. The entire wording concerning forgiveness and request for forgiveness concerned, among other things, a very serious irritation that took place between the Episcopate of Germany and the Episcopate of Poland. This dispute was caused, according to the German bishops, by the Primate August Hlond, who in August 1945, with his papal powers, appointed five apostolic administrators in northern and western lands. The German Episcopate considered this to be a breach of authority, and in addition he considered it an entrance, in colloquially speaking, into the boots of communist power and using this forceful shift of borders for the introduction of the Polish Church there. Among other things, these words we forgive and ask for forgiveness were addressed to the episcopate of Germany as a party which, according to the Polish bishops, was wrong. And, of course, there is no doubt that the German side was wrong. But the empathy expressed in this letter caused German bishops, among others. They have resigned and have been abandoned to this day, because this is a process, from blocking the beatification process of Cardinal August Hlond, who had just been blocked to a large extent due to the reality that was in August 1945. I'd like to answer your question very briefly. As you know perfectly well, this letter was of great importance when it comes to Polish-German relations at the level of the Church above all, but in the broader sense, i.e. not only clergy, bishops, as well as laymen. It was after sending this letter that bilateral talks began between the communities of secular German and Polish Catholics, and then it had a huge impact on this decision of 1972, which was mentioned by the senator. On this occasion, I will remind you that no doubt Whatever it sounds like, maybe more poetic than senator's. We wouldn't have John Paul II as Pope if it weren't for the voices of bishops and cardinals of Germany. It was also a path towards a certain mobilization of cardinals who decided thanks to the initiative of Cardinal Koenig, the Austrian cardinal, to support the Polish pope, John Paul II. And then, in 1982, we note the participation of the German Episcopate in paying tribute to the victims of the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration and extermination camp and participation in Rome It was in September 1982. In the canonization of St. Maximilian Kolbe. You could say that all these views triggered this letter. That's why I think there's no doubt There was no doubt about that, and none of the parties to our House at the meeting of the Legislative Commission should be honoured and the authors of the letter should be honoured. If I may add one more thing, Mr Marshal, I would like to repeat what I said during the meeting of the Legislative Commission. Namely this draft resolution is written with a certain intention. I would like this intention to be spoken here, sounded and did not run away from you. It is visible, but maybe sometimes you have to put such dots above the dots. Namely, the intention is to honor, on the one hand, those whom we should honor, and on the other hand, the last paragraph also serves to make us, as the Senate, educators. Mr. Marshal in his inaugural speech spoke of a constant uplift, a desire to raise the Senate's prestige. Undoubtedly included in our mission is that we should be educators of the nation and thus raise the prestige of the House as an effect, of course, not an end in itself. Hence the last paragraph, which speaks about how today we need to understand and use the resources of values behind the decision of the Polish Episcopate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u52	Thank you very much. Senator Jarosław Oremski, please. But please, Senator, because perhaps it's for you, I don't know, perhaps for the senator... [[I think it's for you.]] I'm sure it's for you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u53	In Wrocław there are three-day celebrations organized by the Church and the city related to the 50th anniversary of sending the letter. Of course, the theme of these celebrations is the famous sentence, but also the person of the Archbishop of the Fireplace. The Senate text refers, and rightly so, to the figure of Primate Wyszynski, who took on all responsibility. It was certainly a difficult time for the Primate. Was it considered mentioned in this text by the author and the founder of this famous sentence?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u54	Thank you very much, sir, for your vote. Yes, it was considered, and I as a senator, for the intent of which... [[Applicant.]] ...senator applicant I have no reason to reject this type of amendment, I certainly have no historian in my conscience. Undoubtedly, the initiator was the Bishop, later the Archbishop and Cardinal Bolesław Kominek. But I thought that the whole internal logic of the proposed text points to Primate Wyszynski as the chief responsible, also for the consequences. And, as you know, these effects, as the senator rightly pointed out, were not easy for him then. If there is an intention to make an amendment, to add a sentence that would indicate the role of Archbishop of the Fireplace, then I myself will not object.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u55	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u56	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, the author of this draft resolution, which has already been shaped with the help of the committee. You wrote: "Let this activity and the courage of the episcopate become a challenge for authorities who have the ambition to build ties between nations, their culture and their values, enriching for hundreds of years the Old Continent. I read it as some concern about the fact that in Polish politics it does not exist, that it changes for the worse. Is that how it's supposed to be understood? [[No, no, no.]] [[Oh, no, Jackie...]] Do you know of those you call upon to change? [[Voice from the room: This is very good...]] Because as far as I know, Mr. Senator. And I'm a little story of the Senate. The Senate has always expressed such opinions and supported the slogans that you are asking for support. [[That can be omitted, Professor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u57	If he was in favour, I'm just glad the Senate's intentions of the previous term are consistent with my new senator. I'm very happy for you, Senator. The instincts are pretty obvious. Namely, there is not so much concern behind this view as the true statement, the statement that as Europeans we are in the process of discussing what we will call the catalogue of fundamental values. We also had this example just now in this Chamber, because the dialogue between Senator Klichem and Senator Wind was a dialogue just about not ruling out any values, that is, neither Christian values nor Of course, it comes from the law of the state, i.e. civil rights, human rights and the citizen, who reaches the French revolution, by the Jacobins, which is still called a great one today. And as a Christian, although I do not agree with this catalogue of values, I also accept them as a European heritage. That's the respect. And this is a proposal to write down respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u58	Thank you very much. Senator Ryszard Bonisławski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u59	Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. The last paragraph expresses gratitude to Polish bishops, with Primate Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński, etc. This is the first time I've met with the word "cardinal" in my name. It's like the Count... [[How did you...]] [[That's what they say.]] [[It always is.]] [[That's how you spell it, but it's a big letter.]] [[That's what they say, Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński.]] If I may, I would be here, without losing my intentions, to create something like this: with the Primate of the Millennium. Then in capital letters, as I heard here, it could be written by Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, after the decimal so that... [[No, no...]] [[You can't...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u60	I like this amendment very much, I'm in favour. [[Thank you.]] [[Why?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u61	Senator Rafał the locksmith. [[Just, of course, report it formally.]] In writing and with a signature. [[Buddy Professor, you can't...]] [[Why can't you?]] Senator Rafał the locksmith. [[I'd like to ask the applicant a question.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Now you have the voice of Senator Rafał the locksmith. You're welcome. The senator is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u62	The event is momentous and in my opinion the text is profound. However, I would like to ask the question which I fear is a rhetorical question. Is this proposal, the initiative of this resolution, coordinated with a similar proposal from the German Chamber, the Bundesrat, on this issue? [[There's no need for that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u63	We are senators of the Republic of Poland. [[This is Polish, not German...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u64	Okay, thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the senator, the Senator or the applicant? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Senator Czesław Ryszka to speak. [[I'm the one who can sit down.]] Yes, please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u65	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On November 18, 1965, the Polish Episcopate in a historical letter to its German brothers included the memorable words The Polish bishops in the words of the author of these words, Archbishop Bolesław Kominek of Wrocław, later Cardinal, have created a current pattern of reconciliation with the Germans. Thanks to this letter the Polish-German relations soon changed, in 1970 the agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany was signed in Warsaw, where the border was recognised in Oder and Nysa, and in 1972 the Holy See gave full canonical status to the church organization on the western and northern lands. It is worth to stop for a moment over the content of the letter of Polish bishops. I would like to remind you that it was created under extremely dramatic political circumstances: a permanent cold war, the borders of Poland were closed, and scaring German revisionism was part of civic education. Therefore, the most important words of the letter aroused a hysterical attack by the then first secretary of the Polish United Workers' Party, Władysław Gomulka, as well as the entire press party. On the letter signed by 36 Polish bishops, with Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński at the head, the avalanche of charges fell. It was mainly about the fact that the Church was throwing this convenient German scarecrow on Poles out of the party's hands. The letter of Polish bishops was treated by the party as a conspiracy with the Germans, as a desire to please the Germans, i.e., in one word, she considered him an act of political diversion towards her father. In the attack of the Church, they were not disguised as means. For months, the juggler was used with quotes, not allowing the message to be published in its entirety anywhere. This attack is confirmed by Władysław Gomulka, who, speaking on 18 April 1966 in Poznan before the university At the same time, Primate Wyszyński spoke in front of the cathedral in Poznań, saying: "The message of bishops, on the basis of which is a destructive idea for Poland, is already trying to undermine the foreign policy of our country. His authors, in the name of their reverse political purposes, absolved Nazi criminals, forgiven Auschwitz, Majdanek, Treblinka, all their genocide crimes committed in the Polish nation and in other nations. And further: what must be the blinding of this head of the Polish episcopate and its supporters, lansing the anti-national idea of the premier, whose political content in our day is to break the Polish nation with the Soviet nation, to break the Polish-Soviet alliance, to put a wall between Poland and the Soviet Union, to the new catastrophe of Poland. And further: The government will not allow the arrival of the pope and bishops from other countries, whose Polish episcopate, following its political goals, without the knowledge and approval of the state authorities, invited the millennial ecclesiastical celebrations. Today we know how history felt: after all, the letter was objective, substantively extremely balanced, not lacking words about the victim of the last war, concentration camps, displacements, persecutions, the destruction of Polish intelligence, including 2 000 Polish priests and 5 bishops. There was also a passus about the border on Oder and Nysa, this I quote: The most bitter to the Germans of the fruit of the last war. The bishops also mentioned the suffering of millions of refugees and German displaced persons. We also know that the letter of Polish bishops did not remain without echo from the western partner. The answer of the German bishops came soon because Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński received a letter with the signatures of 42 bishops from both parts of Germany on December 5 of that year. Although it was much shorter than the Polish message, it also did not contain a historical part, but it addressed the subject of mutual reconciliation and forgiveness and, above all, expressed the joy of the established dialogue. The German bishops admitted that many horrors were suffered by the Polish people from the Germans and on behalf of the German people. We know that we must bear the consequences of war. It's what the German bishops say. It's hard for our country, too. We understand that the period of German occupation left a burning wound, which even with good will is difficult to heal. We are all the more grateful that, in view of this fact, Christian long - suffering is recognized as having had a serious conflict of conscience during the reign of the national socialist regime. Further, the German bishops wrote: "We are grateful for the fact that in the face of millions of Polish victims of those times we also remember those Germans who resisted the demon and in many cases gave their lives. It is a comfort to us that many of our priests and faithful in the midst of that night of hatred intercede for prayer and sacrifice for a Polish nation deprived of rights and that in the name of this Christian love they took on prison and death. We are grateful that despite the extreme suffering of the Polish people, the hard fate of expelled Germans and refugees is also mentioned. End of quote. I will admit that it was very unsatisfactory in the letter of the German bishops Passus concerning the loss of land in the west and north, so Polish bishops decided to send the German bishops the history of the Polish emigration scientist Oskar Halecki published in the West. But in the eyes of the party it was a terrible step of Polish bishops Once again, the party accused them of ignoring native historians. Moreover, even court proceedings took place in Poland against Oskar Halecki and he was not considered a Polish historian. Looking from today's perspective at this act of courage of the Polish Church, Polish bishops with Primate Wyszyński at the head, one should see in this act the first step which led to the meetings of German and Polish Catholics, to the political and ecclesiastical solutions mentioned at the beginning. Notabene, as it turned out, was Gomulka four years later, a few days before he left politically, signed an agreement on normalization of relations with the Federal Republic of Germany, and even considered them to be the biggest political success of Poland in the international arena at that time. In conclusion, I will say that whoever fights against the wise, timeless teaching of the Church only accelerates his fall. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u66	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Fedorovich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u67	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This is the first time I've performed, so I'm feeling a little nervous, but I'd like to share... [[This is my first time driving...]] Oh, congratulations. Then again, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Let me say this: I thank Professor Żaryn very much for preparing this draft resolution. Well, this is actually an important thing, just fifty years ago there was an extraordinary situation, not only in the Polish Church, but also in political relations between Poland and Germany. 'Cause that's where the deal started. I'm gonna step away from the subject for a second because everything here is new to me... For ten years, I was in the bureau of the Parliamentary Committee on Culture and Media, we were conducting historical resolutions and at some point we came to our senses. And this is where I address the professor and other historians. It would be best if such a resolution, which is to be a declaration of opinion or thought of the entire Senate, because such resolutions were adopted unanimously, prepared by professional historians, on the left and on the right, and then put us under discussion or put us to debate. And we tried to do it at the Sejm Office and our convention, but it didn't work. Therefore, most of the time on my committee If I were counting the hours, maybe it would turn out that we spent a hundred and fifty hours on the diwags between historians and us, the unhistorians who were on this committee. We non-historians were preparing for this on purpose, but we never had an advantage over true historians, especially when, for example, we were preparing resolutions... And here I regret that there was no Senator Borowski at the very beginning of the committee meeting, which I do not belong to. Because, as there was a resolution between the left and the right side of the political scene, there was also a dispute that caused unnecessary mischief in the Seym. And I protested against it. What's in the protocols? Well, this draft resolution does not bring, God forbid, any such possibility. And what we talked about... As I say, I'm not a member of this committee, but I know we were talking about a certain lack of symmetry, because our bishops... And this is the great, indeed great merit of Bishop Bolesław Kominka, who is a great clergyman, who has its place in the history of the Polish Church and Polish-German relations, even respected in an unusual way by Wrocław. And if we are now saying that we forgive and ask for forgiveness, then at least one sentence should be included, balanced, with which, moreover, the Professor agreed in substance during our sitting. That's what Senator Libicki said. It says that we are also asking forgiveness for the suffering that the Germans suffered after 1945, as is stated here. Of course, history tells us that most Poles did not decide about their misfortune. This was the case with Gustloff or in other tragic situations. I'm talking about the ordinary German people who took responsibility for aggression and Nazism, even though they were actually innocent people. So if I could just ask... This amendment, if I'm not mistaken, will be made by Mr Libicki. I don't see him in the O.R., so... [[Voices from the hall: There it is, there it is.]] [[I'm here.]] Oh, there you are. And you're gonna bring... [[I'll tell you.]] Okay, I'm sorry. I'm glad you're here, My Phillip Dear. This young man who was very reasonablely leading us here... I've already expressed my opinion on the committee meeting. I believe that such a sentence Philip will probably prepare them already so smoothed, I think, because I know him, should be included in the content of this resolution. Thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u68	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, please take the floor of Senator Libicki. [[As announced by Senator Fedorovich.]] That's right.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As Senator Fedorovich announced, I will repeat what Senator Fedorovich said. First of all, thank you to Senator Zarin. Indeed, this event, this letter of Polish bishops to Germans, is something that we should celebrate, emphasize and honor in the Senate. Many such anniversary resolutions have always been in the Senate and were often less important than this, as well as less important for the history of Poland. So I would like to express my thanks to the professor for making such a resolution. That's one thing. Secondly, we have been discussing this sentence which I have tabled, but I would like to clarify something in connection with what Senator Paszkowski said. I have the impression that the majority of the votes in favour of not putting up the sentence that I proposed were the votes about not breaking a certain brevity of the text. Yes, there were also voices which, as if substantively challenged it, but these were voices, so I would say, minority, while most of the arguments were in favour of the text being simply concise. I will repeat that Professor Żaryn agreed to my joy that it is useful, in substance, to make such a remark, in one form or another, here. Because, of course, in this letter of Polish bishops to Germans it is all this, but it is a very comprehensive document. ♪ When someone's confused ♪ And there's a lot of people like that these days. It's going to be a text. reading, it is thanks to this that he will know what the authors wanted to forgive the other side; but now he is not very able to figure out what the Polish Episcopate was about when he asked for forgiveness, because in no sentence, in any part of the project it is not included. And my amendment aimed to at least signal to people who were not aware of what the Polish bishops really asked for when it came to forgiveness. Maybe it wasn't complete, maybe it could have been more precise, I'm not saying it wasn't. But I believe that something like this should have been found in this text. Senator Fedorovich asked if I would make such an amendment. Well, to be honest, it seems to me that, in the light of such a vote and not of another vote in the Legislative Committee, I am not proposing this amendment again and therefore I am not submitting it. I think if there are people who share Senator Fedorovich's view, it's someone who's going to speak after me. I'll be happy to make this amendment available to you, and you'll be able to report it. I don't see the point of reporting it after one, not another vote on the Legislative Commission. I would stress once again that the argument, which was the most overwhelming argument, was that the text was concise, not a substantive allegation to what I had put forward. Finally, one last thing, and I'm gonna let you give me a little pinch here. Well, it would be worthwhile not only to adopt this resolution, but also in the public debate a little bit to follow this message of the letter. And I think that in the vicinity of this date and this 50th anniversary, public reflection about the destruction of Warsaw is somewhat in contrast to the climate of this letter and this resolution that we are discussing here today. I don't want to name names so I don't have to cause any controversy, but I wanted to point that out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please take the floor. You're welcome. [[I'll just let the marshal in and pick up the podium...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u71	Thank you. But not too high... [[Good.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I belong to this generation, which perfectly remembers this 1965 and it is basically organized in connection with this letter by the authorities and by Władysław Gomułka of the year of hatred. 'Cause it was a year of hate when it wasn't just a physical attack. No, it was pointed out that the episcopate had forgotten where the executioners were and where the victims were, and it had some substantive justification. But there was also a terrible ideological attack. I had this experience, only three years later, in March 1968. But in 1965 the attack was even stronger and more ruthless than three years later. Why? Why the attack? Well, the letter that came out of the morals of our forgiveness, and we ask for forgiveness, was also a moral layer of great political importance. And Gomulka read it well. It was not communist ideology, but anti-Germanism, not even anti-Hitlerism, anti-Naziism, but anti-Germanism. This, of course, was understandable after the crimes that the Germans committed during World War II. Let us remember that 1965 was twenty years after the war, i.e. those who were twenty or fifteen years old during the occupation. And above the age of four, there is awareness and memory function. They remembered what happened and what the Germans did. So it was the only leopards. It was also about driving the fear of the Germans all the time. This drive of fear was an essential issue in terms of acceptance of the system, and especially the alliance with the then largest ally of the Polish People's Republic. The Soviet Union. That was it. And this letter was attacked because it struck the most important elements for the power of the time, i.e. the alliance with the Soviet Union and anti-Germanity. Of course, I remember what happened. One of the senators quoted Gomelka's exact statements. Those were not only Gomelka's statements, but basically all the members of the authorities of that time, including the publicists. I will say that in my school, the high school of art in Gdynia Orlowie, Polish polonist Maria Morawska agreed to discuss this letter Forty young people discussed this letter for two hours. I have to tell you, I was surprised... And they were really great young people, conscious. I was surprised because the only defenders of this letter were me and my colleague Paweł Kondrakiewicz, with whom, three years later, we were spreading leaflets. I was aware of the political importance of this letter, and my colleague Paul because... regardless of what the Church said, he always supported it. So that's 5%. The class supported this letter. And that was the situation back then. In 1965, 5% supported reconciliation with the Germans. Let's see what the difference is now, how huge is the difference, how much work we had to do and how we had to resist patterns, ideological, political and historical. What I'm saying is we've come a very long way. This letter and attack on the episcopate was an introduction to what happened a year later when it was about the millennium of the Polish state and the baptism of Poland Because it was continued in 1966. I remember that after the arrival of two of our cardinals, including Cardinal Wojtyla, next to the assembly we came to... At the same time It was May 3rd in all schools, and some third-May activities were organized. And that's what happened. Not only in Gdynia, but also in the whole country. We managed to get through, get out of this walkway, and together with my colleague Paweł Kondrakiewicz I attended Mass, in a meeting with Cardinals Wyszyński and Wojtyla. But, ladies and gentlemen, when we yelled 'Before with Gomulka!', it turned out that in this huge crowd we were alone, that is, everyone went back and we were standing inside. Luckily nothing else happened, I managed to dive into that crowd. But that was the intercourse... Apart from the fact that propaganda was affected, it was simply normal fear, people were afraid, and it was also, as it seemed, in this environment, in the case of people who came to meet two cardinals. I also remember that on the frames there was a huge poster with the image of Bishop Carl Maria Splett, who was the last German bishop in Gdansk and who was judged by the authorities as a war criminal, and there was a huge inscription: "We will not forgive." This was the attitude of the authorities at the time to these issues. I'm gonna say that when we came back to... well, we destroyed this poster together, this frame and everything... It was that we first threw rocks and it turned out that we didn't have to run away because everyone had a stone in their pocket and was listening only to the sounds of falling rocks. That was also the reaction of young people. But most of society was passive. The greater the role of this letter, which raised the problem in this passive and intimidated society, raised a very difficult issue, a matter which later... Later, all, including those who said 'No', we are opposed, we must not forgive the Germans, they realized what a moral and political dimension this had. Today we also know that the German Protestant Episcopate had taken a step earlier in connection with this issue, and the response of the Catholic Episcopate was quite cautious. That is to say, it was mostly in the case of Protestants, and the response of the German Catholic Episcopate did not make it easier for our episcopate. Finally, I am pleased that Senator Żaryn reminded us all of this anniversary, the round anniversary, the 50th anniversary of this important act, moral and political. But I also want to say that I think Senator Żaryn has decided to correct this letter, but by introducing another poetry, not from this letter, because you introduced it. Of course, it's true from a historical point of view of the opposite: executioners and victims. I don't think there was such a poetry in that letter. I will not make an amendment, but I believe that this kind of improvement is unnecessary. I understand, of course, that it is related to your assessment of the Second World War, my assessment is similar. But I think that this is also a political text and the introduction of such a poetic text into this text is unnecessary at the moment. And finally, I'd like to ask by art. 81. 4... not so much as to ask for a third reading and vote at this Senate meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Rulewski, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The reason for my next and perhaps even boring speech is the fact that I really want to thank Senator Żaryn for the fact that this happened only now, but it happened that the monumental act was bloomed by a draft of the relevant Senate resolution, which has not yet succeeded in any political groups or personality groups, although the subject was almost automatic. But this is also about the fact that I can first appear in front of Marshal Bielan and other young people who, as you can see, are carriers of a certain not only history, but also reality, as the draft resolution says, who are a certain transmission tape in the history of Poland, which also consists of this mentioned letter. I experienced years like Marshal Borusewicz, but in much more dramatic circumstances, which I will not talk about, because it would take too long. Nevertheless, I would like to conclude a few lessons from this letter, but also from life. This resolution, which mentions this letter, proves that the roads for the good of Europe, the road to its unification, the breathing of the left and right lungs, as John Paul II said, do not necessarily need to be defined by politicians. This mission was accomplished by the Catholic Church, its officers, its priests, not only in Poland. This letter became a foundation which later launched processes called the meeting of Chadeks, Prime Minister Mazowiecki and Chancellor Kohl, in the Cross, and which later led to an agreement with Germany on the border and to the fact that today it is no longer a good neighborhood with Germany, but it is something more. I can say that this is something between neighbourhood and friendship, and it is for the benefit not only of our nations, but also of Europe as a whole. It is also worth remembering what this resolution does not talk about. Władysław Gomulka... The party used a very sneaky grip. Well, she offered to society: or Christian Poland... I remind you that it was the eve of the celebration of the millennium of the Polish state, and it was at that time that the party tried to prove that this tradition of Poland did not originate from baptism. It was the first attack. The party proposed: either independence with borders in Oder and Nysa, or there will be no Poland. The question of Poland's independence was settled in Moscow. For the first time Gomulka officially and firmly admitted that there is no independent Poland. This argument, moreover, was repeated at the extraordinary meeting of the PZPR in 1981 by General Jaruzelski, who said: "Socialism will be defended as independence, which meant that independence was to be less important than socialism, and in fact an alliance with the Soviet Union, whose guarantees for the border on Oder and Nysa were to determine the lives of Poles. I think that although the Church included a moral appeal in this letter, he knew that the Petrification of the situation of Poland, whose independence, sovereignty and all steps depend on Moscow, is a way to nowhere. And 20 years ago, history proved it. The words of Gomelka did not work out that if there was no Soviet Union, it would not be Poland. Poland exists within the limits it dreamed of and fought for. And this is the success, above all, of the generation of Solidarity. Although such arguments were presented at the time, that solidarity was a loss for Poland, not so much for economic or even for strike reasons. At the time, such leaflets were scattered, they were produced in Polish military plants, and signed by Oder-Neisse's company, how much because of the fact that "Solidarity" was supposedly a German agent. But I'm not just going to mention it, Mr. Marshal. Unfortunately, I must conclude that the last voices of today's leaders in politics, i.e. those of Mr. Żaryn mentioned here, means moving the crossover backwards, returning to those relations where the German neighborhood is at least censored, if not on a fork. Minister Waszczykowski's statements in Rzepa, that Poland was vassalized by Germany, by Merkelland, are offensive to all of us as well. I don't believe it, I don't accept the fact that in any way you listen to Germans, their ambassador or newspapers... I haven't been there in eight years. And I say that Poland's sovereignty was won by the hands of Poles. But Minister Błaszczak's statements confirm the thesis that Poland is going to war with all... [[But what war?]] Propaganda so far. And just recently, it was rightly pointed out that Minister Sikorski Let's be honest: too chatty It called the pipeline the new Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact. I will, Senator, the author of this resolution, vote for her. But I ask that at the end of my journey I do not have to write to the Germans a letter saying: "We ask forgiveness." [[Jack, what happened to you in that Bydgoszcz?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u74	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I allow myself to take the floor in this extremely interesting discussion and join in thanking Senator Żaryn mainly because I was elected in the district of Szczecin-Policy, and it must be known that for this district the letters of Polish bishops were of importance, as many times as they meant for the rest of our country. I was seven at the time. Already such small children, in the first class, were tried, of course, in a less skillful way, to indoctrinate, saying, as our bishops will soon give these lands to the Germans. I'm not talking about the propaganda that was started in Szczecin at the time on a crazy scale. However, after years of Szczecin, as a city with a severed network of satellites, cut across the border, had difficulties in proper development. Now that this circle is complete, when the border doesn't exist, Szczecin starts to fly. The inhabitants of Szczecin work in Germany, but it also happens that Germans not only buy, but also work in Szczecin. And this letter, which has been mentioned many times in detail here as a surgeon, I don't want to go back to it because I like short speeches. It had a fundamental, absolutely fundamental meaning for these lands. This confirms only the thesis that something written fifty years earlier, but written in the spirit of love and reconciliation, or, more broadly, in the spirit of the Decalogue, which is a perfect direction indicator, a sign for life, after years brings fruit, which even the visionaries and authors of this letter probably did not dream of. That is why I will certainly vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u76	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zientarski, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This introduction to the region, which you just gave in your speech, concerns my land, the Koszalin land. And I remember this hysteria, that time when the bishops were just called traitors, I remember it perfectly. But today I'd like to share with the senators. a certain information, which is like a commemoration, at least in our territory, of a man who undoubtedly contributed to Polish-German reconciliation. It was Bishop Ignacy the hedgehog, Cardinal Nominat. I'm the president of the Association. Cardinal Ignacy Jeża, I served him as the only lawyer during the construction of the seminary of the clergy, during many initiatives related to the creation of the parish, and legal problems were... The notabene inmate with my uncle, Roman Zientarski, the two roofaucemen, was the first to reach out for this reconciliation. Ignacy the hedgehog received the highest award from the President of Germany for reconciliation. Thanks to his excellent contacts with the German Episcopate we received during the construction of the seminary, during its equipment, huge help from the Bishops of Paderborn. The inscription on the monument, which was created on the first hundredth anniversary of the birth of Bishop Ignacy Jez, was erected in the centenary of his birth: the first bishop of the Koszalin-Krobrzeg diocese, the prisoner of the German concentration camp Dachau, the intercessor of the Polish-German reconciliation, the great patriot. This inscription contains the whole essence of his life, but it also reminds us that It's already been mentioned here. The Church placed in the Polish-German reconciliation very great or perhaps the greatest merits. I think that commemoration and this letter, and the authors of this letter, among others. my former Bishop Ignacy Jez, the great patriot and great advocate of reconciliation And this inscription on this monument will remind people of it forever. This is a very important initiative. Mr. Senator Żaryn, for whom I thank you very much. Of course, I will vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u78	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to speak to Senator Wczyła.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The political aspect of the Polish bishops' message from 1965 has already been discussed several times in this Chamber. So I think that we, the Senate, the political body, should not ignore this aspect either. Ladies and gentlemen, the words of the Polish bishops, we ask for forgiveness, were about the fact that the Germans were displaced from their home sides on the ground after the change of borders. The displacements were the result of a change in the border, i.e. the establishment of a border in Oder and Nysa. The intention, such a political intention of Polish bishops, was to ensure that this Polish-German border was considered an inviolable border. Therefore, if we want to pay tribute to Polish bishops today, then Yeah, I think so. This aspect should be included in the draft resolution by the Senate. I suggest that we consider whether or not to include here a paragraph that will allow the intention of Polish bishops to be fully reflected 50 years ago. I would suggest in the sixth verse, after a passage called by name, where war crimes are referred to, to add a paragraph: "Such an approach of Polish bishops, deep and timeless, has enabled us to base future Polish-German relations on the principle of recognition of the inviolability of the borders of both countries. I would ask you to consider the possibility of such a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u80	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Paszkowski will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we refer to the message of Polish bishops to German bishops. It was, of course, created in a specific context, as has already been mentioned here. At that time we had no democratic relations with Germany, we had only relations with the GDR. Moreover, the Polish border in Oder and Nysa was not formally regulated and this must be remembered. There's been a lot of talk here. I was somewhat inspired by the statement used by Marshal Borusewicz regarding the words of the cat and the victim, that it was not as appropriate to what was said in this letter. The letter is long. I've got him right in front of me. This is a document that has six pages of solid text. He begins with the fact that in connection with the celebration of the Millennium Baptism of Poland there will be celebrations. Further, there is an invitation to attend the ceremonies addressed to German bishops. Later there is a historical feature: as in Poland was baptized, how Christianity was developing. In this context, the element of Polish-German cooperation is introduced, in describing the adoption of Christianity is the reference to Otto's tradition. III. There are further issues related to building, for example, our civilization: Magdeburg law, city placement, etc., etc. There is mentioned Wit Stvosz, then there are various historical references, for example to St. Jadwiga But in this case it is the Silesian Princess, etc., etc. It is indicated that German influences in the context of Christianity are also important and these Polish-German contacts... Because it's important to remember that this Polish-German border is what we call it. For almost four hundred years, it was a place where open wars were basically not. But, of course, there are parts in this letter that I will quote to justify the presentation in the resolution of this dichotomy: the executioner of the victim. Of course, the quotation is always a quote of a passage, but if there are such paragraphs: from the areas where the Teutonic Knights settled, then the Prussians were born, who led to the widespread discreditation in Polish lands of everything German. In their historical development they are represented by the following names: Albert Prusski, Frederick called the Great, Bismarck and finally Hitler as the peak... Well, there's a certain historical continuity here. As for the years of World War II, there is a large paragraph in which the following is stated: "After a short period of twenty years of continued independence (1918 and 1939), something which was euphemistically called World War II was unleashed without his guilt over the Polish people, which was for us Poles, however, conceived as an act of total destruction and extermination. A terrible dark night has come over our poor Homeland that we haven't had in generations. It is commonly called the period of German occupation, and under this name it entered Polish history. We were all powerless and helpless. The country covered itself with concentration camps, where crematoria chimneys smoke day and night. More than 6 million Polish citizens, mostly Jewish, had to pay with their lives for this period of occupation. It's still about intelligence, destruction, etc., etc. It's all written here. As far as the issues of persecution, repression, which the Germans have suffered, are concerned, in my opinion, the most important paragraph, of course, is, in addition to this call, which I will at least quote in part. He reads as follows: "Here is an overview of the thousand-year development of Polish culture, with particular attention to the Polish-German neighbourhood. The burden of bilateral relations is still great, and it is strengthened by the so-called hot iron of this neighborhood. The Polish border in Oder and Nysa is, as we well understand, a bitter fruit of the last war for the Germans, mass destruction, as is the suffering of millions of refugees and displaced Germans. (This happened on the inter-Alian order of the victorious powers, issued in Potsdam in 1945). Most of the population left the area for fear of the Russian front and fled to the West. For our Homeland, which came out of this mass murder not as a victorious but extremely exhausted state, it is a matter of existence (not a larger area of life). Worse was the 30 millionth nation wanted to push into the corridor of some General Government from 1939 to 1945, without western territories, but also without eastern areas, from which since 1945 millions of Polish people had to sail to the West. Where they were to go, if the so-called General Government, together with Warsaw's capital, was destroyed in ruins. The waves of destruction of the last war have passed through the country not only once, as in Germany, but since 1914 many times, it is in the other way, like the apocalyptic knights, leaving each time ruins, ruins, poverty, sickness, pestilences, tears, death and growing complexes of retaliation and hatred. These are very important sentences. We're debating now. And we've been debating this. In the context of taking account of various persecutions. Only by giving the historical truth and pronunciation of this letter, which coincides with this historical truth, one must also give a context. And the context was that it was the result of the war. And it was not Poles, not some sovereign Polish authorities that could be charged for what was happening in these areas, because in many cases there was no Polish influence, because these were areas under the jurisdiction of Soviet troops. It was they who did this, and the forming apparatus of the communist state of Poland was only a supporting device and carried out certain arrangements which resulted from the Soviet domination. And you have to remember that, too. The point is not to include such elements here, namely that we recognize that there is some Polish responsibility for this situation. Therefore, at the committee meeting, we were very careful about these issues, because, firstly, they were reported hot, and secondly, we were aware of the whole context and complexity of the situation. To conclude my speech, I'm going to say that there's a reason why I quoted those passages that I quoted. This letter was written on November 18, 1965, and the things I quoted were things that were not only going against, let's call it so, the communist doctrine of the state, the falsified version of history, it also had a very rich reflection in such a state of Poland. And that's what you have to remember. In this respect, I believe that what was developed by the Legislative Commission, I am abstracting at the moment from perhaps the correct amendments tabled, was the result, I believe, of a deep reflection. Of course, we had a well prepared draft resolution by Senator Zarin, which was a great facilitation for our work. In fact, little had to be changed there, there was only some possible improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u82	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, please speak to Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will also start by thanking the designer, because we are indeed remembering the message, which to this day is an example of the wise, good entry of Christianity and religion into politics. When it's honest, when it's true, it's true, too. What I would like to emphasise in this context It's effective. Because this gesture resulted, and it was very beneficial for Poland. After all, we know that this was about normalizing the situation in Western lands, and we know the sequences that followed. Let's be honest: without this letter, without this gesture The designers knew this well. All these changes, so much expected by us living there, because I am also from the western lands, would not be possible at this rate. No forgiveness, no reach, no willingness to cooperate Which doesn't require forgetting, but requires good will. It would not be possible to normalize Polish-German relations and regulate border issues. Therefore, the memory of this gesture is important, historically important. I also admire your professor, your senator, that there are very strong references to the present, because if our resolution, like the previous one, is supposed to make any sense, it will only have it if we take an example of those who could show Christianity in politics so strongly that it turned out to be effective. And that is why these words referring to the courage of the Polish Episcopate, these last sentences, are a really important clue for us today and, as we write here, a challenge for authorities, for those who exercise power today. In fact, this is a dedication for those who remember the past, who, seeing and experiencing real difficulties in living together, in living together, would like to withdraw from such a spirit; this is a warning not to do so. First of all, we need to look for what connects us, what unites us, and what can bring us, the Poles, positive fruits. When I hear some ministers today who may well be They're offended by some kind of speech, and they're walking away from that spirit, and they're on a confrontation path, and I think they're going in the wrong direction, because you always have to see this as if a busole, any difficulty would come and ever come. They will, but there will remain this great souvenir and this wonderful message, this lighthouse, a sign of how to approach it and what to hold on to so as not to succumb to the current temptations of confrontation.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u84	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz again.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u85	After fifty years, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I wasn't sure if I remember the exact text of this message, and when the rapporteur, Senator Paszkowski, decided to argue with me, I was even sure that I didn't remember the message exactly. But, Mr. Senator, I remember them very well. As it turns out, I have a good memory despite those 50 years. There was no formulation of the cat and the victim. [[It wasn't.]] I know, I know, that's right. And I just had such concerns, not so much that the wording is there, but that my memory is unreliable. And yet I would like to say in connection with your speech that if we introduce such an element to evaluate the message 50 years ago, I do not know whether we are taking a step forward or a step backwards. I think we shouldn't move, so to speak, in the poetry in which it was a message. And my historical assessment... I will no longer repeat my historical assessment. This historical assessment contained in the message, which was very multilateral, was a good historical assessment, and I fully agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Grodzki, Senator Oremski, Senator Bonisławski and Senator Wcisła. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. I would also like to inform you that Marshal Borusewicz has requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. Thank you very much. It was my debut in the lead. Now you're going to debut Marshal Chelya. [[Applause]] You're welcome. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u87	We proceed to the examination of the third item: the second reading of the draft resolution on the creation of the Polish Inter-Paramental Union Group. The draft resolution under consideration was submitted by the members of the Senate Bureau and is included in print No 13. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate This draft, after agreement with the clubs and the senate circle, was included on the agenda without first reading. I ask the authorised representative of the applicants, Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan, to present a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is my double debut because I was just in session, and now for the first time, I'm the rapporteur. I have the honour to present a draft resolution, contained in print no. 13, on the creation of the Polish Inter-Paramental Union Group. The experienced senators know very well that such a resolution is taken by both Chambers of the Polish Parliament at the beginning of each term. A few words about what the Inter-Paramental Union is. It is the oldest international organisation, founded in 1889 on the initiative of the parliamentarians of England and France. The purpose of the first meeting was to regulate international arbitration. The current name was adopted in 1894. The EU currently brings together 166 parliaments with membership status and 10 associated parliaments. The Union shall organise and facilitate contacts between members of parliaments, unite them to strengthen and develop democratic and parliamentary institutions and to maintain peace and cooperation between peoples, contribute to the protection and promotion of human rights, develop contacts, cooperation and exchange of experience among parliaments and parliamentarians of all countries. A very important area of the Union's activities is the promotion and development of bilateral inter-parliamental contacts, among others. by setting up bilateral parliamentary groups. The Union shall cooperate widely with the United Nations and its agendas. The Union's statutory bodies shall be the Assembly, the Governing Board, the Executive Committee and the Secretariat. The Chairman is Mr Saber Chowdhury of Bangladesh, who was elected during the autumn session in 2014 and Mr Martin Chungong, Secretary General of Cameroon, elected by the Governing Board, who took office in July 2014. The most important statutory body is the Assembly of the Interparliamentary Union. The assembly shall meet twice a year, in spring and in autumn. Each spring session takes place in another country, which provides participants with the opportunity to learn about the realities of different countries. The Autumn session is held in Geneva. During both sessions a meeting of female parliamentarians is organised. In addition, the Union organises thematic conferences at local and regional level. The next session of the General Assembly of the United Nations shall be attended by a meeting of parliamentarians organised jointly by the Inter-Parliamentary Union and the UN Secretariat. A parliamentary session within the World Trade Organisation Forum is also held every year, organised jointly by the Interparliamental Union and the European Parliament. Members of the Union may form geopolitical groups. Poland belongs to the 47 members of the group.12 Plus. The Inter-Paramental Union shall be financed primarily through annual membership contributions. In October 2011, the Interparliamentary Union adopted a strategy for 2012 and 2017 entitled "Better Parliaments" A stronger democracy. Poland joined the Interparliamentary Union in 1922, reactivated its participation in 1947 and was re-assigned to full membership in 1948. In accordance with the Statute of the Interparliamentary Union, a member of this organisation may be the entire parliament or representative of the parliament of the national group. All senators and Members are members of the Polish Inter-Paramentary Union Group, which was reactivated at the beginning of each term. The group operates under the rules of the Polish Inter-Paramentary Union Group, which is approved at the beginning of each term of the Sejm and Senate by the Marshal of the Sejm and the Marshal of the Senate. The board of directors of the group, which in the last term had thirteen members of parliament. The three senators and ten Members shall be notified by their parliamentary clubs. The composition is based on the rules of the Polish Inter-Paramentary Union Group. The Management Board shall elect a group bureau from among its members. The Polish Inter-Paramentary Union Group has eight seats with the right to vote at the meeting of the Inter-Paramental Union. The division of seats between the Seym and the Senate is 6:2. If, in the next three sessions of the Assembly, the delegation consists exclusively of members of the same sex, the number of members shall be automatically reduced by one person. The delegation of the Polish Parliament to the meeting of parliamentarians during the session of the United Nations includes two Members and one Senator. So much for information about what the Inter-Paramental Union is. High Izbo, I ask you to accept the project without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u89	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the authorised representative of applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Chudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u90	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Will this resolution be accompanied by a list of all types of interparliamental groups that we will create in the Polish Parliament? Polish-Czech, Polish-French... How many groups are there gonna be?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u91	It's not gonna be part of the resolution. Groups will be set up by the bureau. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u92	Would any of you like to ask another question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u93	The meeting of the Legislative Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted at second reading for the draft resolution in the name of solidarity with the French people and the draft resolution on the 50th anniversary of the sending of the historical letter to the German bishops by the bishops will take place at 17.00 in room No. 179. Meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the review of the Law on the amendment of the Law on Government Administration Departments and some other laws, further, will be held today at 5 p.m. in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for the election of the deputy chairman of the committee will take place today half an hour after the end of the Senate bureau meeting in room 176. The Health Commission will meet on 19 November, Thursday, in room 217 at 9 a.m. The agenda provides for the election of two alternates to chair the committee. The National Defence Commission will meet on 19 November, Thursday, in room 182 at 9 a.m. The agenda provides for the election of the Deputy Chairman of the Committee on National Defence. Tomorrow, 19 November, at 9.30 a.m., room 176 will hold a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. Agenda: election of deputy chair of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The meeting of the Infrastructure Committee will be held tomorrow, 19 November, at 9.30 a.m. in room 179. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the election of the deputy chairman of the committee will take place tomorrow, 19 November, at 9.30 a.m. in room 217. The meeting of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad will take place tomorrow, Thursday, 19 November, at 10 a.m. in room 217. Agenda: election of deputy chairman of the committee, various cases and free proposals. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance will take place on 19 November at 10 a.m. in room 182. Order of business: election of deputy chairman of committee. The meeting of the Environment Commission will take place on 19 November 2015 at 10 a.m. in room 176. Order of business: election of deputy chairman of committee. And a letter from the President of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs: Dear Senators Members of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senate Affairs of the Polish Senate! I kindly inform you of the seventh meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee, to be held on 19 November at 10 a.m. in room 179. First point: preparation of the draft resolution of the Senate on the amendment of the Senate committees. Signed: Chairman of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Sławomir Rybicki. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the election of the deputy chairman of the committee will be held on 19 November in room 307 at 10.15 a.m. And one last announcement. The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media on the election of the deputy chairman of the committee will take place tomorrow, 19 November, at 10.30 a.m. in room 179. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-18-senat-02-1.u94	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess by 11 o'clock tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 16 minutes 47]]
