ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-20-senat-02-3.u1	Resume session. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposals of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this matter are contained in prints Nos 16 and 17. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present the proposals of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-20-senat-02-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Rules of Procedure of the Senate The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee presents two draft resolutions on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. At its sixth meeting on 18 November 2015, the committee examined the conclusions of Senators Waldemar Kraski, Robert Mamotov and Piotr Zientarski. The Commission has unanimously decided to submit a draft resolution in accordance with the proposals of these senators. The text of the draft resolution is contained in Senate print no. 16 and I will now read it to the senators. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 20 November 2015 on changes in the membership of Senate committees. Art. 1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, revokes: 1) Senator Waldemar Kraska of the National Defence Committee, 2) Senator Robert Mammothov of the National Defence Committee, 3) Senator Piotr Ziientarski from the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. Art. 2. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, chooses: 1) Senator Waldemar Kraska to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, 2) Senator Robert Mątkow to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, 3) Senator Piotr Ziientarski to the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad. Art. 3. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. At its meeting yesterday, on 19 November, the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators examined the conclusions of Senators Mieczysław Golby, Michał Potoniczny, Antoni Szymański and Aleksandr Swed. The Commission unanimously decided to submit a draft resolution to the Senate in accordance with the senators' conclusions. The text of the project is contained in Senate print No 17. Now I'm going to read this project. .Art. 1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, revokes: 1) Senator Michał Potniczy from the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, 2) Senator Aleksandr Swede of the Committee on Infrastructure, 3) Senator Antoni Szymanski of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. Art. 2. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, chooses: 1) Senator Mieczysław Golba to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, 2) Senator Mieczysław Golba to the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, 3) Senator Michał Potniczy to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, 4. Senator Aleksandr Swede to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, 5) Senator Antoni Szymański to the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad. Art. 3. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-20-senat-02-3.u3	Thank you, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the change in the membership of the Senate committees; print No 16. Who's in favor of the senators? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution in the name of solidarity with the French people... [[Voice in the Chamber: One more vote.]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the Chamber: Another vote on print project 17.]] Oh, yes, sir. Excuse me. We proceed with the vote on the... yes, because there were two prints here: 16 and 17. Sorry. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the membership of the Senate committees; print No 17. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 83 for, 4 against. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. And now we are back to discussing the first item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution in the name of solidarity with the French people. The Senate, following the second reading of the draft resolution, sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting; it is in print No 14 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-20-senat-02-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Legislative Commission, as regards the draft resolution in the name of solidarity with the French people, recommends that the Senate adopt amendments 2, 4, 6 and 10 and 12 from the table of proposals. The Commission requests their adoption by the Senate together with the uniform text of the resolution, contained in print No 14 S. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-20-senat-02-3.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Legislative proposals were tabled by Senator Jan Rulewski, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Piotr Wach, Senator Kazimierz Wind, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn and Senator Bogdan Klich. I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, amendments will be voted in the order of the text, in print No 14 X, and then in the adoption of the draft, in print No 14 S, in full, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1. The title of the resolution is replaced by the following: "Solidarity with the French people and the fight against terrorism'. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: You can without reading the text of the amendments.]] Without reading the text of the amendments? [[Voice from the room: Yes, you can.]] But I'll read the text. Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 7 for, 77 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 23]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 2. In the first subparagraph, the word "many' shall be replaced by the word "several'. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 78 for, 6 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 24]] We proceed with the vote on Amendment 3. In the first subparagraph, the following second sentence is added: 'All these have recently committed acts of terror in Sinai, Russian and Ukrainian tourists, adults and children.' Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Whose amendment is this?]] But right now, I don't read it anymore. This is the applicant... I can tell the senator because it says here that this is Senator Rulewski's amendment. I was gonna say I don't know, but I do now. We no longer ask questions during the vote, Senator, so that I made an exception... We are voting on Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 3 for, 81 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 25]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 4. In the second subparagraph, in the second sentence, the words "predominantly' are replaced by "specially'. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 85 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 26]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 5. In the second paragraph, in the second sentence, the following words shall be inserted after the words "family of victims': "nationals of the French Republic and other countries'. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 83 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 27]] The amendment was accepted. Adoption of Amendment 6 excludes voting on Amendments 7 and 8. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 6. The following subparagraph shall be added to the second subparagraph: The reflection on these events should result in better cooperation between the competent services and bodies of the European States and more effective coordination of these activities at European Union, NATO and other stakeholders level. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 61 for, 22 against, 4 abstained. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 6 was accepted. Let's move on to Amendment 9. The third subparagraph is replaced by the following: "We believe that only the joint fight between the Member States of the European Union and the Free Nations against terrorism will improve the security of Europe and the world. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Fourty-four senators voted, six votes, 75 against, three abstentions. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 9 denied. Amendment 10. In the third subparagraph, the word "Europeans' shall be replaced by the words "Europe and the world'. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 85 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 30]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 11. In the fourth subparagraph, in the first sentence, our European values are replaced by our values. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 86 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 31]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 12. In the fourth subparagraph, in the second sentence, our common European heritage shall be replaced by our common heritage. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 77 for, 10 against. [[Voting No 32]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on a resolution on the adoption of the draft in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] In view of the results of the vote, the Senate has adopted a resolution on solidarity with the French people... [[Voice from the room: This is not the title. The first title...]] Oh, I'm sorry. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution in the name of solidarity with the French people. We return to the examination of the second agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 50th anniversary of the sending of a historical letter by Polish bishops to German bishops. The Senate, following the second reading of the draft resolution, sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting, which is in print no. 12 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Bohdan Paszkowski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-20-senat-02-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 18 November, the Legislative Commission responded to the proposed proposals. The Commission supported Amendments 1, 2 and 4 from our printing, from the compilation of conclusions, from print No 12 X. At the same time, I inform you that Senator Oremski has, in accordance with the regulations, changed the content of his proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-20-senat-02-3.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? During the second reading of the legislative village, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, Senator Ryszard Bonisławski, Senator Tomasz Grodzki and Senator Jarosław Oremski reported. I don't see any volunteers. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-20-senat-02-3.u8	Mr. Marshal, I'm asking you a question. [[But it's not for me...]] But you presented this project and used the term "sent letter." It was as if the fact of sending was accentuated, and I think everyone here was talking about the letter itself, not the operation of sending. [[Voice from the room: Well, that's good.]] Wouldn't it be possible to... Is that awkward reading, or is that the title?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-20-senat-02-3.u9	Mr. Senator, I'm reading the text of the resolution, I'm reading what you're reading, and the committee, and the High Senate, they've passed. So that's a rhetorical question, Senator. Please, are there any other questions? [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] Mr. Senator? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, in the order of the project footnotes, in print No 12 X and then in the adoption of the project, in full, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. We are proceeding with the vote on Amendment 1, tabled by Senator Jerzy Wcisla. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 80 for, 3 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 34]] We proceed with the vote on Amendment 2, by Senator Richard Bonisławski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 81 for, 1 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 35]] We proceed with the vote on Amendment 4, Senator Jarosław Oremski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 70 for, 13 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 36]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the draft in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 83 votes against, 1 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 37]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 50th anniversary of the sending by the bishops of Poland a historical letter to the German bishops. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the creation of the Polish Inter-Paramental Union Group. I would remind you that on the first day of the meeting a draft resolution was presented and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would also like to remind you that the draft resolution is included in print No 13. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 38]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the creation of the Polish Interparliamentary Union Group. We are returning to the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 18 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Bohdan Paszkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-20-senat-02-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committees you just mentioned on 20 November this year. consider the proposals put forward during the debate and ask the High Senate to adopt the proposal contained in point II of print No 18 Z, containing a summary of the proposals, and this is a proposal for the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-20-senat-02-3.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. I would ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-20-senat-02-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was my duty to present a motion for a minority drafted by me and by Senator Pociej, supported by non-associated senators, with the hesitation of some of the PiS senators. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Who hesitates?]] [[You're the ones who hesitate.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Mr. Marshal... [[Yes, Senator?]] ...I can keep my mouth shut, but I can't lie. [[I'm sure, I'm sure.]] High Izbo, the minority applied the proper urgency during the work, therefore, despite the strict time-cure imposed by the Senators of the PiS... [[Laws and Justice.]] ...the Law and Justice, led by Jarosław Kaczyński, undertook, unlike in the Lower House, the difficulty of proceding. She did not take action of a form of obstruction, but she proceeded with good will and openness to work, despite locking the door to experts interested in working on this law. How interested are you? It is primarily the nerve of justice, the judiciary, the National Judicial Council, trade unions, churches and finally all citizens... [[And Jan Bury.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...who are the recipients of an interest in the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, of that court. In this way, let us agree, the debut of the new policy of dialogue, which the Prime Minister spoke out of her mouth about listening to the voices of the citizens, was not successful. [[Talking in the O.R.]] It is true that work has been accelerated in this House and in the Sejm, but certainly at such an extraordinarily pace and at such a temperature there has been no work in the Human Rights Committee and the rule of law, which... [[It's a vocabulary, Mr. Marshal...]] ...directed and steered still... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Shh...]] ...Professor Severinski. So we worked under limited conditions as regards BP, we were exposed to media leaks when it came to outstanding lawyers, practitioners, as former presidents of the Constitutional Tribunal. It seems to us, to the authors of minority proposals, that we have done this task, and I would like to present some of the results of our work. The minority's conclusions are, as a rule, in a double edition. The first proposal seeks to reject the law in its entirety. The authors have consummated the opinions that appeared in the senators' statements that this editorial act is moving towards a crawling and hidden change of constitution. [[Voices from the O.R.:]] I do not know if crawling and constitution are good terms for law and justice. I'm sure the authors were guided by facts. This was, among other things, the publication of the 2010 draft constitutional changes by Law and Justice. [[Talking in the O.R.]] This could have been the premise announced by PiS president Jarosław Kaczyński during the last session of the Sejm. But the fact that this law, in the area of constitutional content, was more important than this kind of legitimate warning to the authors, is because it concerns courts and tribunals, a law whose authors, in the quickening content of the justification, have inaccurately defined its objectives or hid them, is also causing problems of a great social nature, as well as legal problems. We believe that, since it is proposed that the term of office of the current Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Constitutional Tribunal should suddenly be interrupted, because the exchange of these and the possibility to submit related proposals is introduced within accelerated periods, this law provides grounds for sharing the environment of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, because, as indicated in the debate, it creates at least three groups of judges within this general assembly: those who have been granted their rights during the previous term of office, those who receive this right, and those whom the State of Law and Justice indicated as a possible way of the Court in respect of respecting their rights. The authors of the minority proposal might consider that there is no great threat in this. Well, Dear Senators, ladies and gentlemen, there is a serious threat of division here, this is a pretext for creating acts of collaborating with backstage politicians. [[That's what happened. The point is, it's not gonna happen.]] The word "collaboration" in Poland has a clear meaning. We are afraid that no or almost no judge will take the effort to reach out to the new senators in the nomenclature of this law. So we can presume that the Court will at best be paralyzed, at worst it will be a place of quarrel and tension, or perhaps even more. That the current independent Court and the independent judges will be replaced by mercenaries. [[Voice from the room: Now they're gone?]] This will not be permitted! Maybe I'm abusing... But me and you, Senator Rooster, and many of us, maybe even 1/3, have survived in the nearest space governments... [[PZPR.]] ...in the court of a judge of the Church, a professor of the Mafia, so as not to reach Brystigir. And I have a moral right and a title to it. With those who are still experiencing the effects of restricting the judicial authority, they are emotionally speaking and giving strong warnings. [[A judge from Gdansk included?]] There's no... Therefore, there can be no agreement to the division of the judge's environment. We have a special title. Maybe I'll start by telling you the reasons I'm closest to you because you're a marshal. It was the Marshal who called us, with the approval of the Parliamentary Club of the PO, to seek to increase the rank of the Senate, its importance. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[You're welcome.]] But it is the rank of the Senate that is designated, among other things, by the task to which we are only posted, that is to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. And that's why we're so sensitive. Yes, we are the ones who work with the Constitutional Tribunal in the first place. After all, the Court's long-standing work does not provide any reason to make such radical changes in the course of the course, without an opinion, especially since I did not hear negative conclusions during the President's reports. But more important is how the Constitutional Tribunal worked. After all, we remember, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS senators, that recently the Constitutional Tribunal at the request of the Ombudsman, but contrary to the opinion of the government and the coalition, questioned the persistence of the tax-free amount, which has become the cornerstone of your policy. And there's something else that I'm close to. The Constitutional Tribunal, contrary to the narrative of a very small part of the public opinion, because not only politicians with liberal or Liberty connotations, granted people almost excluded, people who are self-employed, union rights. But still this Court, in which you want to make changes primarily to staff, this Court has led to a situation which, I think, is the subject of the satisfaction of the right hand, such as Mrs Hrynkiewicz. This Court recognised the primacy of social security, their functions and rank, over the private open pension funds and thus slowed down, perhaps, the grouping of the PiS with difficulty of change. So I don't see the basis, we don't see the basis for the need for such violent acts of change. I know you're worried. Maybe it's a long speech. Words that don't sound good with the soufflers of this bill... [[Don't insult people. Don't insult people, Jackie.]] Sufler is a positive profession... [[Voice from the room: Since Komorowski.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...in the theater, so in culture. Ladies and gentlemen, the minority senators are guided by the fruits of this conversation and by the need for this discussion. As I said, however, we will continue to cooperate with it, regardless of the reasons for the paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal. We have created a room for agreement based on the need to remove all those cases that have been highlighted by experts from the Sejm Legislative Office, our co-workers from the legislative department. Part of the expert opinion, so to speak, has broken through to room 181 after all. We're proposing amendments. These amendments, which from the vending machine seem to be contrary to the constitution... Thus, recognition of the right acquired by judges who have already been elected and are listed in the list of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, i.e. the liquidation of the centrifuge, which, by shortening the term of office of the Presidents, aims to accelerate, i.e. exchange of all judges still during this four-year period of activity of parliamentary rule of Law and Justice, so extending or restoring reasonable deadlines for the submission of applications, i.e. removing obvious errors... The authors indicate that the candidate for a judge who, for example, will not submit an application on Christmas will be disqualified... [[Voice from the room: It's a shame you didn't do this before.]] It's not a big price, but... it's a price for change. It is not difficult for you, Senators, to escape false and demagogical loyalty We have often done this on both sides of this scene in the name of the good of the Polish justice system. Because I believe that the independence and independence of the Constitutional Tribunal does not know any price. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-20-senat-02-3.u13	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? The conclusions were presented during the discussion by: Stanisław Karczewski, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Czesław Ryszka, Ryszard Majer, Maciej Łuczak, Andrzej Kaminski, Jan Hamerski, Artur Warzocha, Rafał Ślusarz, Robert Gaweł, Robert Mamotkow, Andrzej Wojtyła, Alicja Zając, Zdzisław Pupa, Andrzej Stanisławek, Stanisław Kogut, Marek Martynowski, Tadeusz Romańczuk, Małgorzata Kopiczko, Adam Gawice, Arkadiusz Grabowski, Grzegorz Pekkis, Bogusława Orzechowska, Rafał Ambrozik, Aleksander Szwed, Michał Potonicz, Andrzej Pajak, Piotr Zientarski, Aleksander Potej and Jan Rulewski. In addition, Senator Alexander Pociej was the rapporteur of the minority joined by the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. I can't see. I can't hear anyone. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place... [[But I'm sorry...]] We proceed with the vote, Mr. Marshal. [[I'm sorry, but...]] But, Mr. Marshal, if we're going to vote, there's no way... [[But...]] I'll make an exception. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal, but this is an exception I shouldn't have done. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] [[I don't want an exception, Mr. Marshal.]] But it's special. I give you my vote to the marshal, even though... [[Thank you very much...]] ...we proceed to the vote and at this point we should no longer take the floor. [[I want to... but you didn't ask, Mr. Marshal, if there are any questions for the rapporteur.]] [[Voices from the room: What do you mean? He asked.]] But then, Mr. Marshal... [[And I have a question for the rapporteur.]] I said what I should say, Mr. Marshal. [[Okay, we're voting.]] We are together in this House for ten years and we should know how the proceedings are going. Thank you very much. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion for a minority joined by the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 24 against, 61 against. [[Voting No 39]] In view of the results of the vote, the Senate... Wait, wait, what's it like here? He rejected... [[Talking in the O.R.]] In the face of the rejection of the motion for rejection, we are voting on a proposal from the Joint Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and a group of senators to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 60 were in favour, 23 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 40]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the second Senate meeting has been exhausted. I inform the senators that the next Senate meeting will be convened on 26 November. The agenda will be delivered to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-20-senat-02-3.u14	Let's wait for our colleagues to leave the room for a while. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We've joined senators' statements outside the agenda. Declarations may not last more than five minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-20-senat-02-3.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Marshal of the Mazowieckie Voivodship. In recent days, we have witnessed a violent terrorist attack in France. The brutality of attackers and the threat of subsequent attacks mean that special security measures are being taken in many European Union countries. In view of the growing threat of terrorism, I ask you whether, and if so, to what extent measures have been taken to increase safety in public facilities such as: hospitals, schools, cinemas, cultural centres, etc., subordinate to the Marshal's office. The second statement is addressed to the President of EuRoPol GAZ SA. For a long time we have witnessed terrorist attacks committed by attackers representing the so-called. The Islamic State, a very violent example of which has been recently a series of assassinations in France. In view of the growing threat on the part of ISIS to all areas of life within the European Union, I ask you to indicate whether the transit gas under your management has been subject to increased security surveillance. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-20-senat-02-3.u16	Thank you very much. There are no other senators willing to speak. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I would like to inform you that the minutes of the second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office in room 255. The second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 9 minutes 48]]
